ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business If we are not able to identify and acquire portfolios of "scratch and dent" residential mortgage loans on terms acceptable to us, our revenues and profitability could be materially reduced. Our success depends upon the continued availability of portfolios of scratch and dent loans, or S&D loans, that meet our purchasing criteria, and our ability to identify and successfully bid to acquire such portfolios. The availability of such portfolios at favorable prices and on terms acceptable to us depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including: o general conditions in the U.S. and regional economies; o interest rates; o the demand for residential real estate purchases, refinancing or home equity lines of credit; o real estate values; o underwriting criteria used by originators; o the prices other acquirers are willing to pay; o the securitization market; and o laws and regulations governing consumer lending. Significant changes in any of these factors could affect the availability and/or the cost for us to acquire S&D loans. Any increase in the prices we are required to pay for such loans in turn will reduce the profit, if any, we generate from these assets. We cannot predict our future acquisition volume or our ability to submit successful bids to purchase portfolios of S&D loans and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to purchase these assets at the same volume or with the same yields as we have historically purchased. Our acquisition volume has in the past varied substantially from quarter to quarter, and we expect that it will continue to fluctuate in the future. As a result of our business strategy of purchasing pools of mortgage loans and the volatility of such purchases in both amount and timing, our quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year net income may be more volatile than those of other financial services companies. If the volume of S&D loans purchased declines or the yields of those assets decline, we could experience a material decrease in revenues and profitability. 27 We may not be able to successfully market our residential mortgage loan origination products to non-prime borrowers. The success of the loan origination business of our wholly-owned subsidiary, Tribeca Lending Corp., depends on our ability to market Tribeca's loan origination products to non-prime borrowers seeking to obtain residential mortgage loans. Adverse changes in the U.S. economy and the real estate market could result in a decrease in borrowing activity generally, as well as an increase in competition for non-prime borrowers among loan originators, which could reduce the number of loans Tribeca is able to originate. Further, changes in the regulatory environment that result in our adopting more demanding underwriting standards or documentation requirements or other increased restrictions on loans to non-prime borrowers, or the perception that such changes are likely, may also reduce the number of loans Tribeca is able to originate. A reduction in Tribeca's origination business would curtail the growth of the number of loans in our portfolio from which we generate revenue through interest and fee income, loan sales and servicing, which could negatively affect our revenues and financial condition. Our business is dependent on external financing, and we currently receive the substantial majority of our financing from a single lender. If our principal lender ceases to provide financing to us or increases the cost to us of such financing and we are unable to access alternative external sources of financing on favorable terms or at all, we would not be able to fund and grow our operations and our business will be materially harmed. We currently receive a substantial majority of our external financing from our principal lender, Sky Bank, under a series of credit facilities, including our master credit facility, Tribeca's warehouse credit and security agreement, or warehouse facility, and Tribeca's master credit and security agreement. If we lose access to this primary source of external financing for any reason, we will not have the liquidity to fund our business operations. We depend on our credit facilities to: o provide the cash necessary to fund our acquisition of S&D loans; o fund our loan originations; and o enable us to hold our loans for investment or pending sale. Our credit facilities do not obligate our principal lender to make any additional credit available to us. Accordingly, there is no guarantee that we will continue to receive additional financing under our current agreements or that our principal lender will enter into new agreements with us upon the expiration of the current agreements on terms favorable to us or at all. If our principal lender refuses to extend additional credit to us for any reason, including, for example, a change in its policies, management or control, a change in its criteria for eligible mortgage loans to secure credit advances, a change in the regulatory environment, including a change in the financing of mortgage loans where the lending decision is based entirely or primarily on the borrower's equity in his or her home and not, or to a lesser extent, on a determination of the borrower's ability to repay the loan, or a lack of available funds, we would need to secure comparable financing from the other banks currently participating with our principal lender and/or other sources in order to continue to fund our acquisition and origination activities and possibly working capital. There is no guarantee that, in such an event, we would be able to secure other external financing on favorable terms or at all. Even if our principal lender does agree to provide additional financing to us, there is no guarantee that such financing will be on terms as favorable as our current facilities. Our ability to be competitive in both portfolio acquisitions and loan originations depends on the cost of our financing, and any new facility could bear interest at higher rates than we currently pay. Such an increase in our cost of funds would adversely affect our ability to bid competitively for portfolio acquisitions and profitably originate loans, which in turn would have an adverse effect on our business prospects and financial condition. 28 Our ability to fund increased operating expenses depends on the agreement of our principal lender to increases in our operating allowance. Under our credit facilities with our lenders, we are required to submit all payments we receive from obligors under pledged mortgage loans to a lockbox maintained by our principal lender, from which we receive an operating allowance, which is renegotiated from time to time and at least annually, to sustain our business. All amounts submitted to the lockbox in excess of the agreed upon operating allowance are used to pay down amounts outstanding under our credit facilities with our lenders. The operating allowance may not be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs in the future, particularly as we seek to grow our operations. If it is insufficient, there is no guarantee that our principal lender will increase our operating allowance, which would have a material adverse impact on our business. If our principal lender ceases to renew our maturing loans for additional terms or provide us with refinancing opportunities, or we are unable to secure refinancing opportunities with other lenders, our indebtedness will become due and payable upon the contractual maturity of each borrowing. The unpaid principal balance of each loan under our master credit facility and term loan agreements with our principal lender is amortized over a twenty-year period, but matures three years after the date the loan was made. Historically, our principal lender has routinely agreed to renew such loans for additional three-year terms upon their maturity. Similarly, advances under Tribeca's warehouse facility are required to be repaid within 120 days after the date of advance (or, in some cases, earlier). Our principal lender has historically allowed us to convert our indebtedness under the warehouse facility to term loans outside the warehouse facility, and has provided us with consolidation and refinancing opportunities. There is no guarantee that our principal lender will continue to renew our loans under the term loan agreements or provide us with opportunities to consolidate, refinance or convert our borrowings under the warehouse facility, thereby relieving our immediate repayment obligations. Our principal lender's refusal to provide us with such renewal, conversion, consolidation and refinancing opportunities could cause our indebtedness to become immediately due and payable upon the contractual maturity of such indebtedness, which could result in our insolvency if we are unable to refinance our debt through alternative lenders or other financing vehicles and preclude us from further borrowings. There is no guarantee that we would be able to refinance our debt through alternative lenders on favorable terms or at all because we are highly leveraged and our ratio of equity to assets and/or our ratio of debt to equity may not be sufficient to support traditional borrowing. Our credit facilities require us to observe certain covenants, and our failure to satisfy such covenants could render us insolvent or preclude our seeking additional financing from this or other sources. Our credit facilities require us to observe certain affirmative, negative and financial covenants customary for financings of this type, including: a covenant under our master credit facility with our principal lender requiring that we and our subsidiaries maintain a minimum consolidated net worth of at least $10.0 million; a covenant under Tribeca's warehouse facility with our principal lender requiring that Tribeca and its subsidiaries maintain a minimum consolidated net worth of at least $2.5 million; and covenants under our new master credit and security agreements requiring that Tribeca and its subsidiaries maintain a consolidated minimum net worth of at least $3.5 million and rolling four-quarter pre-tax net income of $750,000. Failure to satisfy any of these covenants could: o cause our indebtedness to become immediately payable, which could result in our insolvency if we are unable to repay our debt; and o preclude us from further borrowings. 29 In addition, under our master credit facility with our principal lender, Thomas J. Axon, our Chairman, President and CEO, ceasing to possess, directly or indirectly, the power to direct our management and policies through his ownership of our voting stock constitutes an event of default, which, without a waiver from our principal lender, would cause our indebtedness to become immediately payable and could result in our insolvency if we are unable to repay our debt. Our business is sensitive to, and can be materially affected by, changes in interest rates. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates, particularly changes that are unexpected in timing or size. The following are some of the risks we face related to an increase in interest rates: o All of our borrowings bear interest at variable rates, while a significant majority of the loans in our portfolio have fixed rates. As a result, an increase in rates is likely to result in an increase in our interest expense without an offsetting increase in interest income. Further, our adjustable-rate loans typically provide for less frequent adjustments in response to rate increases than do our borrowings, and sometimes also include interest rate caps. To the extent this is the case, an increase in interest rates would result in a greater increase in our interest expense than in our interest income, which would adversely affect our profitability. o An increase in interest rates would adversely affect the value that we would receive upon a sale of loans that bear interest at fixed rates, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. o An increase in our funding costs without an offsetting increase in revenue would cause our cash flow to decrease, which in turn may have an adverse impact on our ability to meet our monthly debt service obligations. In the event we are unable to meet our monthly debt service obligations for this or for any other reason, we would be in default under the obligations of our credit facilities and our lenders would have the right to accelerate payments under our credit facilities. o A substantial and sustained increase in interest rates could harm Tribeca's loan origination volume because refinancings of existing loans, including cash-out refinancings and interest rate-driven refinancings, would be less attractive and qualifying for a purchase loan may be more difficult. Lower origination volume may harm our earnings by reducing origination income, net interest income, prepayment and other servicing fees and gain on sale of loans. o An increase in interest rates would result in a slowdown of borrower prepayments and a reduction of revenue as purchase discount accreted into income would decline. An increase in interest rates may also lead to an increase in our borrower defaults, if borrowers have difficulties making their adjustable-rate mortgage payments, and a corresponding increase in nonperforming assets, which could decrease our revenues and our cash flows, increase our loan servicing costs and our provision for loan losses, and adversely affect our profitability. We are also subject to risks from decreasing interest rates. For example, a significant decrease in interest rates could increase the rate at which loans are prepaid and reduce our interest income in subsequent periods. We do not currently hedge against changes in interest rates because we have determined that the costs associated with establishing hedging strategies outweigh the potential benefits. Our lack of hedges means that we have potentially greater exposure to interest rate volatility, particularly as a result of increases in interest rates, than we would if we were able to successfully employ hedging strategies. 30 A prolonged economic slowdown or a lengthy or severe recession could harm our operations, particularly if it results in a decline in the real estate market. The risks associated with our business are more acute during periods of economic slowdown or recession because these periods may be accompanied by decreased demand for mortgage loans and decreased real estate values, as well as an increased rate of delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures. In particular, any material decline in real estate values would increase the loan-to-value ratios on loans that we hold and, therefore, weaken our collateral coverage, increase the likelihood of a borrower with little or no equity in his or her home defaulting and increase the possibility of a loss if a borrower defaults. The residential mortgage origination business is a cyclical industry, has recently been at its highest levels ever and may decline, which could reduce the number of mortgage loans we originate and could adversely impact our business. The residential mortgage origination business has historically been a cyclical industry, enjoying periods of strong growth and profitability followed by periods of shrinking volumes and reduced profits. The residential mortgage industry has experienced rapid growth over the past three years due to interest rates that are low by historical standards. The Mortgage Bankers Association of America has predicted that residential mortgage originations will decrease in 2006 due to rising interest rates. During periods of rising interest rates, refinancing originations decrease, as higher interest rates reduce economic incentives for borrowers to refinance their existing mortgages. We expect this to result in a decreased volume of industry-wide originations in the foreseeable future. Historically, the non-prime market has been impacted less by the interest rate cycle than has the market for prime residential mortgage loans. However, there is no assurance that this will continue to be the case in the future. Due to decreasing and stable interest rates over recent years, our historical performance may not be indicative of results in a rising interest rate environment, and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected if interest rates continue to rise. Our reliance on cash-out refinancings as a significant source of our origination activities increases the risk that our earnings will be harmed if the demand for this type of refinancing declines. Our loan origination volume is comprised principally of cash-out refinancings. This concentration increases the risk that our earnings will be reduced if interest rates rise and/or the prices of homes decline, which would reduce the demand and our origination volume for this type of refinancing. Such a reduction could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. When we acquire S&D loans, the price we pay is based on a number of assumptions. A material difference between the assumptions we use in determining the value of S&D loans we acquire and our actual experience could harm our financial position. The purchase price and carrying value of the S&D loans we acquire is determined largely by estimating expected future cash flows from such loans based on the delinquency, loss, prepayment speed and discount rate assumptions we use. If the amount and timing of actual cash flows are materially different from our estimates, our cash flow and profitability would be materially adversely affected and we could be required to record write-downs that could adversely affect our financial condition. We may experience higher loan losses than we have reserved for in our financial statements. Our loan losses could exceed the allowance for loan losses that we have reserved for in our financial statements. Reliance on historic loan loss experience may not be indicative of future loan losses. Regardless of the underwriting criteria we utilize, losses may be experienced as a result of various factors beyond our control, including, among other things, changes in market conditions affecting the value of our loan collateral and problems affecting the credit and business of our borrowers. 31 We use estimates for recognizing revenue on a majority of our portfolio investments and our earnings would be reduced if actual results are less than our estimates. We recognize income from the purchase discount on our portfolio of notes receivable using the interest method. We use this method only if we can reasonably estimate the expected amount and timing of cash to be collected based on historic experience and other factors. We reevaluate estimated future cash flows quarterly. If future cash collections are less than what we estimated they would be, we would recognize less than anticipated purchase discount, which would reduce our earnings. If we do not manage our growth effectively, our financial performance could be harmed. In recent years, we have experienced rapid growth that has placed, and will continue to place, certain pressures on our infrastructure. We will need to continue to upgrade and expand our financial, operational, administrative and managerial systems and controls. Further, continued growth could require capital resources beyond what we currently possess. In particular, our acquisition and servicing of large "bulk" portfolios relative to our size, our origination volume and our creation of new product lines, such as our Liberty Loan product, require a significant amount of financial, operational and administrative resources. As a result, we may not able to support such bulk purchases, origination volume and new product lines without corresponding increases in our general and administrative costs. If we do not manage our growth effectively, our expenses could increase and our business, liquidity and financial condition could be significantly harmed. The inability to attract and retain qualified employees could significantly harm our business. We continually need to attract, hire and successfully integrate additional qualified personnel in an intensely competitive hiring environment in order to manage and operate our growing business. The market for skilled acquisitions management, account executives and loan officers is highly competitive and employers have historically experienced a high rate of turnover. Competition for qualified personnel may lead to increased hiring and retention costs. If we are unable to attract, successfully integrate and retain a sufficient number of skilled personnel at manageable costs, we will be unable to continue to acquire, originate and service mortgage loans, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may have to outsource a portion of the servicing of the loans we hold due to capacity constraints or lack of sufficient personnel. We require sufficient qualified personnel to service the loans that we hold. On occasion, due to capacity constraints or lack of personnel, we temporarily outsource the servicing of a newly acquired portfolio to a qualified third-party servicer under a sub-servicing agreement. In our experience, a high quality of servicing often has a positive effect on lowering delinquency and default rates. To the extent that we deem it necessary to outsource the servicing of a portion of our loans, we cannot guarantee that the servicing performed by the contracted sub-servicers is at the same level that we would typically perform or that the cash flows realized from the sub-serviced loans will be as good as those we had projected in pricing the acquisition of such loans or realized from otherwise similar loans in our portfolio that we service. We face intense competition that could adversely impact our market share and our revenues. We face intense competition in our loan acquisition and loan origination business from other specialty finance companies, finance and mortgage banking companies, internet-based lending companies and, to a growing extent, from traditional bank and thrift lenders that are entering the non-prime mortgage industry. Some of our competitors are much larger than we are, have better name recognition than we do, and have far greater financial and other resources than us. Many of our competitors have superior access to capital sources and can arrange or obtain lower costs of financing, resulting in a competitive disadvantage to us with respect to such competitors. 32 Competition in our industry can take many forms, including the price and other terms of bids for portfolio acquisitions, the speed with which acquisitions can be completed, interest rates and costs of a loan, stringency of underwriting standards, customer service, amount and term of a loan, and marketing and distribution channels. The need to maintain mortgage loan volume in this competitive environment creates a risk of price competition and may result in increased purchase prices and reduced profitability, potentially to such an extent that we believe that prices in the market are not supported by the fundamentals. In addition, price competition could cause us to lower the interest rates on loans originated by Tribeca, which could lower the value of our loans. Any increase in these pricing and underwriting pressures could reduce the volume of our loan acquisitions and originations and significantly harm our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. A significant amount of our mortgage loan originations are secured by property in New York and New Jersey, and our operations could be harmed by economic downturns or other adverse events in these states. A significant portion of Tribeca's mortgage loan origination activity is concentrated in the northeastern United States, particularly in New York and New Jersey. Of the loans originated by Tribeca and held for investment as of December 31, 2005, a substantial majority of the aggregate principal was secured by property in these two states. An overall decline in the economy or the residential real estate market, the occurrence of events such as a natural disaster or an act of terrorism in the northeastern United States could decrease the value of residential properties in this region. This could result in an increase in the risk of delinquency, default or foreclosure on mortgage loans in our portfolio and restrict Tribeca's ability to originate new mortgage loans, each of which could reduce our revenues, increase our expenses and reduce our profitability. Competition with other lenders for the business of independent mortgage brokers could negatively affect the volume and pricing of our originated loans. We depend in large measure on independent mortgage brokers to source our Liberty Loan product, which currently constitutes the majority of Tribeca's loan production. These independent mortgage brokers have relationships with multiple lenders and are not obligated by contract or otherwise to do business with us. We compete with other lenders for independent brokers' business on pricing, service and other factors. Such competition could negatively affect the volume, quality and pricing of our loans, which could harm our revenues and profitability. We may not be adequately protected against the risks inherent in non-prime residential mortgage loans. The vast majority of the loans we originate are underwritten generally in accordance with standards designed for non-prime residential mortgages. Mortgage loans underwritten under these underwriting standards are likely to experience rates of delinquency, foreclosure and loss that are higher, and may be substantially higher, than prime residential mortgage loans. A majority of the loans originated to date by Tribeca were made under a "limited documentation" program, which generally places the most significant emphasis on the loan-to-value ratio based on the appraised value of the property, and not, or to a lesser extent, on a determination of the borrower's ability to repay the loan. We cannot be certain that our underwriting and loan servicing practices will afford adequate protection against the higher risks associated with loans made to such borrowers. If we are unable to mitigate these risks, our cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be materially harmed. 33 We are subject to losses due to fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, mortgage brokers, vendors and our employees. When we acquire and originate mortgage loans, we typically rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties, including the information contained in the loan application, property appraisal, title information and, in some cases, employment and income stated on the loan application. If any of this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and such misrepresentation is not detected prior to the acquisition or funding of the loan, the value of the loan may be significantly lower than expected. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the loan applicant, the mortgage broker, another third party or one of our employees, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation except when we purchase loans pursuant to contracts that include a right of return and the seller remains sufficiently creditworthy to render such right meaningful. An interruption in or breach of our information systems may result in lost business and increased expenses. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of or damage to our information systems or the third-party information systems on which we rely could cause delays in performing due diligence, pricing, servicing and underwriting our loans. This could result in increased difficulty in effectively identifying, evaluating and pricing loan portfolios available for purchase, fewer loan applications being received, slower processing of applications, increased expenses and reduced efficiency in loan servicing. In addition, we are required to comply with significant federal and state regulations relating to the handling of customer information, particularly with respect to maintaining the confidentiality of such information. A failure, interruption or breach of our information systems could result in regulatory action and litigation against us. We cannot assure you that such failures or interruptions will not occur or if they do occur that they will be adequately addressed by us or the third parties on which we rely. The success and growth of our business will depend on our ability to adapt to and implement technological changes to remain competitive, and any failure to do so could result in a material adverse effect on our business. Our mortgage loan acquisition, origination and servicing businesses are dependent upon our ability to effectively interface with our sellers, brokers, borrowers and other third parties and to efficiently process loan purchases, applications and closings. Technological advances, such as the ability to automate loan servicing, process applications over the Internet, accept electronic signatures and provide instant status updates, are playing an increasing role in our ability to effectively interact with these third parties. The intense competition in our industry has led to rapid technological developments, evolving industry standards and frequent releases of new products and enhancements. The failure to acquire new technologies or technological solutions when necessary could limit our ability to remain competitive in our industry and our ability to increase the cost-efficiencies of our operating model, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Alternatively, adapting to technological changes in the industry to remain competitive may require us to make significant and costly changes to our loan origination and information systems, which could in turn reduce our profitability. We are exposed to the risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on defaulted mortgage loans and take title to the properties underlying those mortgages. If we do take title, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. Hazardous substances or wastes, contaminants, pollutants or sources thereof may be discovered on these properties during our ownership or after a sale to a third party. Environmental defects can reduce the value of and make it more difficult to sell such properties, and we may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation, and cleanup costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. These costs could be substantial. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. Although we have not to date incurred any environmental liabilities in connection with our real estate owned, there can be no guarantee that we will not incur any such liabilities in the future. 34 The loss of our Chairman may adversely affect our operations. Thomas J. Axon, our Chairman, President and CEO, is responsible for making substantially all of the most significant policy and managerial decisions in our business operations, including determining which large bulk mortgage portfolios to purchase, the purchase price and other material terms of such portfolio acquisitions. These decisions are paramount to the success and growth of our business. Mr. Axon is also instrumental in securing our external financing. The loss of the services of Mr. Axon could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our ability to successfully finance, acquire and service mortgage portfolios, which would harm the prospects of our business. If we do not obtain and maintain the appropriate state licenses we will not be allowed to originate, purchase and service mortgage loans in some states, which would adversely affect our operations. State mortgage finance licensing laws vary considerably. Most states and the District of Columbia impose a licensing obligation to originate first and/or subordinate residential mortgage loans. In some of the states that impose a licensing obligation to originate residential mortgage loans, the licensing obligation also arises to purchase closed mortgage loans. Many of those mortgage licensing laws impose a licensing obligation to service residential mortgage loans. Certain state collection agency licensing laws require entities collecting on delinquent or defaulted loans for others or to acquire such loans to be licensed. If we are unable to obtain and maintain the appropriate state licenses or do not qualify for an exemption, our operations may be adversely affected. Risks Related to the Restatement of Our Financial Statements We may become subject to liability and incur increased expenditures as a result of our restatement of our financial statements. The restatement of our previously issued financial statements could expose us to government investigation or legal action. The defense of any such actions could cause the diversion of management's attention and resources, and we could be required to pay damages to settle such actions or if any such actions are not resolved in our favor. Even if resolved in our favor, such actions could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. Moreover, we may be the subject of negative publicity focusing on the financial statement inaccuracies and resulting restatement and negative reactions from shareholders, creditors, or others with which we do business. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could harm our business and reputation and cause the price of our securities to decline. Failures in our internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures could lead to material errors in our financial statements and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. Such controls are designed to provide reasonable, not absolute assurance that we are providing reliable financial reports. If such controls fail to operate effectively, this may result in material errors in our financial statements. Deficiencies in our system of internal controls over financial reporting may require remediation, which could be costly. Failure to remediate such deficiencies or to implement required new or improved controls could lead to material errors in our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, and expose us to government investigation or legal action. Any of these results could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. 35 Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Industry New legislation and regulations directed at curbing predatory lending practices could restrict our ability to originate, purchase, price, sell, or finance non-prime residential mortgage loans, which could adversely impact our earnings. The Federal Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act, or HOEPA, identifies a category of residential mortgage loans and subjects such loans to restrictions not applicable to other residential mortgage loans. Loans subject to HOEPA consist of loans on which certain points and fees or the annual percentage rate, which is based on the interest rate and certain finance charges, exceed specified levels. Laws, rules and regulations have been adopted, or are under consideration, at the state and local levels that are similar to HOEPA in that they impose certain restrictions on loans that exceed certain cost parameters. These state and local laws generally have lower thresholds and broader prohibitions than under the federal law. The restrictions include prohibitions on steering borrowers into loans with high interest rates and away from more affordable products, selling unnecessary insurance to borrowers, flipping or repeatedly refinancing loans and originating loans without a reasonable expectation that the borrowers will be able to repay the loans without regard to the value of the mortgaged property. Compliance with some of these restrictions requires lenders to make subjective judgments, such as whether a loan will provide a "net tangible benefit" to the borrower. These restrictions expose a lender to risks of litigation and regulatory sanction no matter how carefully a loan is underwritten and impact the way in which a loan is underwritten. The remedies for violations of these laws are not based on actual harm to the consumer and can result in damages that exceed the loan balance. Liability for violations of HOEPA, as well as violations of many of the state and local equivalents, would extend not only to us, but to assignees, which may include our warehouse lenders and whole-loan buyers, regardless of whether such assignee knew of or participated in the violation. It is our policy not to originate loans that are subject to either HOEPA or these state and local laws and not to purchase high cost loans that violate those laws. If we miscalculate the numerical thresholds described above, however, we may mistakenly originate or purchase such loans and bear the related marketplace and legal risks and consequences. These thresholds below which we try to originate loans create artificial barriers to production and limit the price at which we can offer loans to borrowers and our ability to underwrite, originate, sell and finance mortgage loans. We may cease doing business in jurisdictions in the future where we, or our counterparties, make similar determinations with respect to anti-predatory lending laws. In California, for example, a recently proposed amendment to its state anti-predatory lending law substantially could broaden the trigger test for loans subject to its restrictions. If the numerical thresholds were miscalculated, certain variations of our Liberty Loan product, where the lending decision is or may have been based entirely or primarily on the borrower's equity in his or her home and not, or to a lesser extent, on a determination of the borrower's ability to repay the loan, would violate HOEPA and many of these state and local anti-predatory lending laws. In the past, we have sold a small portion of our Liberty Loan production to third parties on a servicing-released, whole-loan basis. Going forward, however, our ability to finance the origination of Liberty Loans and sell the Liberty Loan product to third parties could be impaired if our financing sources or mortgage investors are required or choose to incorporate prohibitions from certain anti-predatory lending practices into their eligibility criteria, even if the laws themselves do not specifically apply to us. We may decide to purchase a loan that is covered by one of these laws, rules or regulations only if, in our judgment, the loan is made in accordance with our strict legal compliance standards and without undue risk relative to litigation or to the enforcement of the loan according to its terms. If we decide to originate loans subject to these laws, rules and regulations, we will be subject to greater risks for actual or perceived non-compliance, including demands for indemnification or loan repurchases from the parties to whom we broker or sell loans, class action lawsuits, increased defenses to foreclosure of individual loans in default, individual claims for significant monetary damages, and administrative enforcement actions. Any of the foregoing could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 36 Some of our competitors that are national banks or federally chartered thrifts and their operating subsidiaries may not be subject to these state and local laws and may as a consequence be able to capture market share from us and other lenders. Federal regulators have expressed their position that these preemption provisions benefit mortgage subsidiaries of federally chartered institutions as well. In January 2004, the Comptroller of the Currency finalized preemption rules that confirm and expand the scope of this federal preemption for national banks and their operating subsidiaries. Such federal preemption rules and interpretations generally have been upheld in the courts. At least one national rating agency has announced that, in recognition of the benefits of federal preemption, it will not require additional credit enhancement by federal institutions when they issue securities backed by mortgages from a state that it deems to have anti-predatory lending laws with clear and objective standards. As a non-federal entity, we will continue to be subject to such rating agency requirements arising from state or local lending-related laws or regulations. Accordingly, as a mortgage lender that is generally subject to the laws of each state in which we do business, except as may specifically be provided in federal rules applicable to all lenders, we may be subject to state legal requirements and legal risks under state laws to which these federally regulated competitors are not subject, and this disparity may have the effect of giving those federal entities legal and competitive advantages. Passage of additional laws in other jurisdictions could increase compliance costs, lower fee income and lower origination volume, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. The 108th United States Congress considered legislation, such as the Ney-Lucas Responsible Lending Act introduced in 2003, which, among other provisions, would limit fees that a lender is permitted to charge, including prepayment fees, restrict the terms lenders are permitted to include in their loan agreements and increase the amount of disclosure required to be given to potential borrowers. Similar legislation has been introduced in the recently-convened 109th Congress. We cannot predict whether or in what form Congress or the various state and local legislatures may enact legislation affecting our business. We are evaluating the potential impact of these initiatives, if enacted, on our lending practices and results of operations. As a result of these and other initiatives, we are unable to predict whether federal, state, or local authorities will require changes in our lending practices in the future, including reimbursement of fees charged to borrowers, or will impose fines. These changes, if required, could adversely affect our profitability, particularly if we make such changes in response to new or amended laws, regulations or ordinances in states where we originate a significant portion of our mortgage loans. The broad scope of our operations exposes us to risks of noncompliance with an increasing and inconsistent body of complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels. Because we may originate, purchase and service mortgage loans in all 50 states, we must comply with the laws and regulations pertaining to licensing, disclosure and substantive practices, as well as judicial and administrative decisions, of all of these jurisdictions, as well as an extensive body of federal laws and regulations. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years, and government agencies enforcing these laws, as well as the courts, sometimes interpret the same law in different ways. The laws and regulations of each of these jurisdictions are different, complex and, in some cases, in direct conflict with each other. As our operations continue to grow, it may be more difficult to identify comprehensively and to interpret accurately applicable laws and regulations and to employ properly our policies, procedures and systems and train our personnel effectively with respect to all of these laws and regulations, thereby potentially increasing our exposure to the risks of noncompliance with these laws and regulations. For example, individual cities and counties have begun to enact laws that restrict non-prime loan origination activities in those cities and counties. State and local governmental authorities have focused on the lending practices of companies in the non-prime mortgage lending industry, sometimes seeking to impose sanctions for practices such as charging excessive fees, imposing interest rates higher than warranted by the credit risk of the borrower, imposing prepayment fees, failing to adequately disclose the material terms of loans and abusive servicing and collection practices. 37 Our failure to comply with this regulatory regimen can lead to: o civil and criminal liability, including potential monetary penalties; o loss of lending licenses or approved status required for continued lending and servicing operations; o demands for indemnification or loan repurchases from purchasers of our loans; o legal defenses causing delay and expense; o adverse effects on our ability, as servicer, to enforce loans; o the borrower having the right to rescind or cancel the loan transaction; o adverse publicity; o individual and class action lawsuits; o administrative enforcement actions; o damage to our reputation in the industry; o inability to sell our loans; or o inability to obtain credit to fund our operations. Although we have systems and procedures directed to compliance with these legal requirements and believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable federal, state and local statutes, rules and regulations, we cannot assure you that more restrictive laws and regulations will not be adopted in the future, or that governmental bodies will not interpret existing laws or regulations in a more restrictive manner, which could render our current business practices non-compliant or which could make compliance more difficult or expensive. These applicable laws and regulations are subject to administrative or judicial interpretation, but some of these laws and regulations have been enacted only recently or may be interpreted infrequently. As a result of infrequent or sparse interpretations, ambiguities in these laws and regulations may leave uncertainty with respect to permitted or restricted conduct under them. Any ambiguity under a law to which we are subject may lead to regulatory investigations, governmental enforcement actions or private causes of action, such as class action lawsuits, with respect to our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. If financial institutions face exposure stemming from legal violations committed by the companies to which they provide financing or underwriting services, this could increase our borrowing costs and negatively affect the market for whole-loans and mortgage-backed securities. 38 In June 2003, a California jury found a warehouse lender and securitization underwriter liable in part for fraud on consumers committed by a lender to whom it provided financing and underwriting services. The jury found that the investment bank was aware of the fraud and substantially assisted the lender in perpetrating the fraud by providing financing and underwriting services that allowed the lender to continue to operate, and held it liable for 10% of the plaintiff's damages. This is the first case we know of in which an investment bank was held partly responsible for violations committed by a mortgage lender customer. Shortly after the announcement of the jury verdict in the California case, the Florida Attorney General filed suit against the same financial institution, seeking an injunction to prevent it from financing mortgage loans within Florida, as well as damages and civil penalties, based on theories of unfair and deceptive trade practices and fraud. The suit claims that this financial institution aided and abetted the same lender involved in the California case in its commission of fraudulent representations in Florida. As of the date of this filing, there has been no ruling in this case. If other courts or regulators adopt this "aiding and abetting" theory, investment banks may face increased litigation as they are named as defendants in lawsuits and regulatory actions against the mortgage companies with which they do business. Some investment banks may exit the business, charge more for warehouse lending and reduce the prices they pay for whole-loans in order to build in the costs of this potential litigation. This could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. We may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of our independent brokers. Mortgage brokers, from which we source some of our Tribeca loans, have parallel and separate legal obligations to which they are subject. While these laws may not explicitly hold the originating lenders responsible for the legal violations of mortgage brokers, increasingly federal and state agencies have sought to impose such assignee liability. For example, the FTC entered into a settlement agreement with a mortgage lender where the FTC characterized a broker that had placed all of its loan production with a single lender as the "agent" of the lender. The FTC imposed a fine on the lender in part because, as "principal," the lender was legally responsible for the mortgage broker's unfair and deceptive acts and practices. In the past, the United States Department of Justice has sought to hold a non- prime mortgage lender responsible for the pricing practices of its mortgage brokers, alleging that the mortgage lender was directly responsible for the total fees and charges paid by the borrower under the Fair Housing Act even if the lender neither dictated what the mortgage broker could charge nor kept the money for its own account. Accordingly, we may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of our independent mortgage broker customers. We are subject to significant legal and reputational risks and expenses under federal and state laws concerning privacy, use and security of customer information. The federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley financial reform legislation imposes significant privacy obligations on us in connection with the collection, use and security of financial and other nonpublic information provided to us by applicants and borrowers. In addition, California has enacted, and several other states are considering enacting, even more stringent privacy or customer-information-security legislation, as permitted under federal law. Because laws and rules concerning the use and protection of customer information are continuing to develop at the federal and state levels, we expect to incur increased costs in our effort to be and remain in full compliance with these requirements. Nevertheless, despite our efforts we will be subject to legal and reputational risks in connection with our collection and use of customer information, and we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to lawsuits or compliance actions under such state or federal privacy requirements. To the extent that a variety of inconsistent state privacy rules or requirements are enacted, our compliance costs could substantially increase. 39 If many of our borrowers become subject to the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act of 2003, our cash flows and interest income may be adversely affected. Under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, which in 2003 re-enacted the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940, or the Civil Relief Act, members of the military services on active duty receive certain protections and benefits. Under the Civil Relief Act, a borrower who enters active military service after the origination of his or her mortgage loan generally may not be required to pay interest above an annual rate of 6%, and the lender is restricted from exercising certain enforcement remedies, including foreclosure, during the period of the borrower's active duty status. The Civil Relief Act also applies to a borrower who was on reserve status and is called to active duty after origination of the mortgage loan. Considering the large number of U.S. Armed Forces personnel on active duty and likely to be on active duty in the future, compliance with the Civil Relief Act could reduce our cash flow and the interest payments collected from those borrowers, and in the event of default or delay, prevent us from exercising the remedies for default that otherwise would be available to us. Risks Related to Our Securities Thomas J. Axon effectively controls our company, substantially reducing the influence of our other stockholders. Thomas J. Axon, our Chairman, President and CEO, beneficially owns more than 43% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. Axon will be able to influence significantly the actions that require stockholder approval, including: o the election of our directors; and o the approval of mergers, sales of assets or other corporate transactions or matters submitted for stockholder approval. Furthermore, the members of the board of directors as a group (including Mr. Axon) beneficially own a substantial majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, our other stockholders may have little or no influence over matters submitted for stockholder approval. In addition, Mr. Axon's influence and/or that of our current board members could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of us and consequently materially adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our organizational documents, Delaware law and our credit facility may make it harder for us to be acquired without the consent and cooperation of our board of directors, management and lender. Several provisions of our organizational documents, Delaware law and our credit facility may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including a takeover attempt in which the potential purchaser offers to pay a per share price greater than the current market price of our common stock. Our classified board of directors will make it more difficult for a person seeking to obtain control of us to do so. Also, our supermajority voting requirements may discourage or deter a person from attempting to obtain control of us by making it more difficult to amend the provisions of our certificate of incorporation to eliminate an anti-takeover effect or the protections they afford minority stockholders, and will make it more difficult for a stockholder or stockholder group to put pressure on our board of directors to amend our certificate of incorporation to facilitate a takeover attempt. In addition, under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof. The ability to issue shares of preferred stock could tend to discourage takeover or acquisition proposals not supported by our current board of directors. 40 Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder (such as the owner of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock) for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. The preceding provisions of our organizational documents, as well as Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change of control and prevent changes in our management, even if such events would be in the best interests of our stockholders. In addition, our controlling shareholder ceasing to possess, directly or indirectly, the power to direct our management and policies through his ownership of our voting stock constitutes an event of default under our master credit facility, which, without a waiver from our principal lender, would cause our indebtedness to become immediately payable and could result in our insolvency if we are unable to repay our debt. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate and cause our stock price to decline. Because of the nature of our business, our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our results may fluctuate as a result of any of the following: o the timing and amount of collections on loans in our portfolio; o the rate of delinquency, default, foreclosure and prepayment on the loans we hold and service; o changes in interest rates; o deviations in the amount or timing of collections on loans purchased from our expectations when we purchased such loans; o our inability to identify and acquire additional mortgage loan portfolios or to originate loans; o a decline in the estimated value of real property securing mortgage loans; o increases in operating expenses associated with the growth of our operations; o general economic and market conditions; o the effects of state and federal tax, monetary and fiscal policies; and o our inability to obtain additional financing to fund our growth. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and we cannot predict their potential effects on the price of our common stock. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Various factors unrelated to our performance may cause the market price of our common stock to become volatile, which could harm our ability to access the capital markets in the future. 41 The market price of our common stock may experience fluctuations that are unrelated to our operating performance. In particular, our stock price may be affected by general market movements as well as developments specifically related to the consumer finance industry and the financial services sector. These could include, among other things, interest rate movements, quarterly variations or changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, governmental or regulatory actions or investigations of us or our lenders, or a significant reduction in the price of publicly traded securities of another participant in the consumer finance industry. This volatility may make it difficult for us to access the capital markets through additional secondary offerings of our common stock, regardless of our financial performance, and such difficulty may preclude us from being able to take advantage of certain business opportunities or meet our obligations. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. In addition to the portion of our outstanding common stock that is freely tradable, we may issue additional shares in connection with our business and may grant equity-based awards to our employees, officers, directors and consultants. If a significant portion of these shares were sold in the public market, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected. Compliance with the rules of the market in which our common stock trades and proposed and recently enacted changes in securities laws and regulations are likely to increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the national securities exchanges have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices for public companies, including ourselves. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee. Our common stock was listed on The Nasdaq National Market on July 19, 2005. Accordingly, we must comply with Nasdaq's qualitative and quantitative requirements, which will require additional cost and effort on our part. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 