ITEM 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should consider the following factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition or operating results. These risks are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. The domestic sugar industry is affected by a number of external forces that we are unable to predict or control that could cause fluctuations in market prices, which may negatively affect our results of operations. Our business and results of operations are closely tied to conditions in the domestic sugar market, principally the market prices of both refined sugar and raw cane sugar. The sugar market is affected by a number of external forces that we are unable to predict or control and that historically have been subject to considerable volatility. A variety of external forces that we are unable to predict influence the domestic sugar market and could adversely affect our business and results of operations, including: • the farm and trade policies of the United States government; 11 Table of Contents • the number of domestic acres contracted to grow sugar cane and sugar beets; • prices of competing crops; • energy costs; • levels of domestic sugar refining capacity; and • weather conditions affecting the sugar cane and sugar beet crops and the operations of facilities operated by us and our competitors. The domestic sugar business has traditionally been subject to periods of high prices and margins, followed by periods of lower prices and margins. In the past, during periods of high prices, growers have tended to increase their production, which has generally caused a drop in sugar prices until the supply and demand return into balance. Our business consists exclusively of the processing and marketing of refined cane sugar. Consequently, we are unable to counteract the fluctuations to which our business may be subject with revenues or income from businesses that are more predictable or that are subject to different market cycles. As discussed below, partially as a result of the volatile nature of the sugar market, we have at times in the past experienced operating losses and net losses. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of existing and future United States farm and trade policies, including the elimination of duties on imports of raw and refined sugar from Mexico in 2008 pursuant to the North American Free Trade Agreement. Legislative and regulatory actions also substantially influence the domestic raw sugar industry. The principal legislation currently supporting the price of domestic crops of sugar cane and sugar beets is the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, or the Farm Bill, which became effective October 1, 2002 and extended the sugar price support program for sugar cane and sugar beets until September 30, 2008. The USDA operates a tariff-rate quota that effectively limits the amount of raw and refined sugar that can be imported into the United States by imposing a tariff on over-quota sugar that makes its import uneconomical. This tariff-rate quota could adversely affect the supply and price of raw sugar available to our sugar refineries if there is a shortfall in domestic production. In addition, marketing allotments under the Farm Bill may reduce the amount and affect the cost of domestic raw sugar that is available to us for refining. Beginning in 2008, the duties on raw and refined sugar imported from Mexico will be eliminated pursuant to NAFTA. As a result, domestic sugar manufacturers may face greater competition from sugar mills and refineries located in Mexico. Any of these factors could adversely affect our results of operations. In the summer of 2007, the U.S. House of Representatives passed its version of the Farm Bill which contains provisions that might negatively affect the Company’s ability to purchase its raw sugar requirements. The present House-proposed version would codify shipping patterns of imported raw sugar. Such shipping patterns historically have been imposed from time to time by the USDA to limit the amount of sugar that can be imported into the U.S. during any quarter notwithstanding the overall level of the annual TRQ. These restrictions could impede the Company’s ability to secure sufficient supplies of raw sugar to maintain continuous operations at its refineries in the busy fall period. Further, this version also would establish the TRQ at the beginning of any crop year at World Trade Organization minimums and would maintain that level until it was clear that imported sugar would not be a competitive threat to domestic producers. This change might affect the timing of imports during the year. In addition, quota holders might delay making shipments in hopes that the USDA would need to increase quotas during the year. Another provision of the current version would divert surplus sugar from the marketplace to the production of ethanol. This would encourage producers to maximize production in order to fulfill their allocations, with assurance that surpluses would be removed into the energy market. Such conditions could result in reduced tariff rate quota levels. The current Farm Bill expires in 2008 and provisions, if any, of the successor legislation related to the domestic sugar industry and their impact on our operations cannot be predicted. 12 Table of Contents If demand for sugar decreases in the future, lower sales volumes and lower prices could result, which could affect us adversely. Domestic demand for refined sugar decreased in 2007 after three years of increased demand. We cannot predict the demand for sugar in the future and this demand could be affected adversely by numerous factors, including: • imports of sugar containing products and sugar blends; • the impact of changes in the availability, development or potential use of various types of sweeteners; • future changes in consumer sweetener preferences, including impact of health concerns; and • changes in population. There are a limited number of sources of raw sugar available to us, and our results of operations will be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw sugar for our refineries on favorable terms. Over 90% of the raw sugar needs for our Gramercy, Louisiana refinery for the next two years are expected to be supplied by a single supplier, LSCPI, which has announced plans to enter into a joint venture agreement with Cargill to construct and operate a refinery in Louisiana. If that refinery commences operation, we expect that LSCPI will supply substantially all of its raw sugar to such other refinery, and we will need to find other sources of raw sugar for our Gramercy refinery. While we are currently pursuing alternative supplies, there are a limited number of sources of raw sugar, and no assurance that we will be able to make alternative supply arrangement or that such arrangements may be secured on favorable terms. Supplies of raw sugar can also be adversely affected by increased raw sugar prices in the world market. In early 2006, world raw sugar prices increased substantially, before subsiding later in that year. While world raw sugar prices generally do not affect the price of domestic raw sugar, high world raw sugar prices may attract excess production from exporting countries into the world market, potentially making supplies available for import to the domestic market more scarce. If we have an inadequate supply of raw sugar, we may be unable to efficiently operate our refineries or meet domestic demand for refined sugar. If increases in domestic raw sugar prices occur, we may be unable to offset the increased price of refined sugar to our customers to offset such higher costs, which could adversely affect our refined sugar margins, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Higher energy costs may result in increased operating expenses and reduced results of operations. Processing raw sugar into refined sugar requires a high level of energy use. We use natural gas, coal and fuel oil to fulfill our energy requirements. Domestic energy prices, particularly natural gas prices, have been higher in recent years although there was a decrease in prices in 2007 from those in 2006. Fuel prices have also led to increased freight costs. We are unable to predict the trend in future prices. Future high energy prices and unforeseen changes in the energy markets could adversely impact our production costs and operating efficiencies. We sell commodity products in highly competitive markets and face significant price pressure. We sell our products in highly competitive markets. We compete with other cane sugar refiners, including one which expanded refining capacity during the past several years, and beet sugar processors and, in certain product applications, with producers of other nutritive and non-nutritive sweeteners, such as high-fructose corn syrup, aspartame, saccharin, sucralose and acesulfame-k. We also compete with foodservice companies and resellers in distributing bag sugar products. 13 Table of Contents Competition in these markets is based primarily on price and the ability to meet timely customer quality and quantity requirements. As a result, we may be unable to protect our market position by product differentiation and may be unable to pass on cost increases to our customers. Historically, we have made the majority of our sales to industrial customers under fixed price, forward sales contracts which extend for up to one year. As a result, changes in our realized sales prices tend to lag behind market price changes. Some competitors may be able to further reduce their product prices because their costs are less than ours or because they have greater financial, technological and other resources than us. In addition, most of our competitors own or control their supply of raw materials. This vertical integration may provide these producers a competitive advantage because they are better able to secure a stable supply of raw materials at more favorable costs than we can. Finally, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements than we can. Increased competition and price pressure could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Damage to either of our refineries that results in prolonged interruption of operations could materially adversely affect our results. The Company conducts its operations at two refineries and is dependent upon such facilities for production. Because these facilities are located in coastal areas, they are subject to severe weather conditions, including hurricanes and flooding, as well as to normal hazards that could result in material damage. Damage to either of these refineries, or prolonged interruption in the operation of the facilities due to our dependence on ocean-going raw sugar deliveries, or for repairs or other reasons, would have a material effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have had losses in the recent past and may be unable to maintain profitable operations. We have at times in the past experienced operating losses and net losses. While we had a net income of approximately $40 million in fiscal 2007, losses in future years could be incurred and could be attributable to a number of factors, including: • low refined sugar prices; • low margins between raw sugar and refined sugar prices; • high energy costs; and • insufficient raw material to enable us to operate our facilities efficiently. We compete in highly competitive labor markets. We operate facilities in competitive labor markets and have labor retention and hiring challenges. In the event we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our production efficiencies could be adversely affected. The Company incurs substantial costs with respect to pension benefits and providing healthcare for its employees. The Company’s estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and post-retirement healthcare benefits require the use of assumptions related to the rate used to discount future liability, the rate of return on plan assets, and the retirement age and mortality of current and retired employees. Future results may differ from these assumptions. In addition, rising healthcare costs and the costs of other employee benefits may affect the Company’s future benefit costs. Such future events may have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our pursuit of acquisitions and other similar initiatives involves risk. We may in the future acquire or invest in new lines of business or offer our products in new markets. Acquisitions and similar investments involve numerous risks, including: • assimilation of operations and personnel; • strain on existing management and other resources; • opportunity costs of employing capital in such investments; 14 Table of Contents • potential loss of the capital invested; • consequences of incurring leverage to finance any investment; • loss of key employees or key customers of the acquired business; and • potential for unrecorded liabilities that are not discovered during due diligence. We may not realize the expected benefits from future acquisitions or similar investments, and the costs of unsuccessful investment efforts could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are exposed to costs arising from environmental compliance, cleanup and litigation, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Our operations are governed by various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These regulations impose limitations on releases of effluents and emissions from our facilities. They also impose requirements on our management of: • water resources; • air resources; • toxic substances; • solid waste; and • emergency planning. We cannot predict with certainty the extent of our future liabilities and costs under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and these amounts could be material. ITEM 1 B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 