ITEM 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should consider the following factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition or operating results. These risks are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. The domestic sugar industry is affected by a number of external forces that we are unable to predict or control that could cause fluctuations in prices, which may negatively affect our results of operations. Our business and results of operations are closely tied to conditions in the domestic sugar industry, principally the prices of both refined sugar and raw cane sugar. The sugar industry is affected by a number of external forces that we are unable to predict or control and that historically have been subject to considerable volatility. A variety of external forces that we are unable to predict influence the domestic sugar industry and could adversely affect our business and results of operations, including: • the U.S. farm and trade policies; • the number of domestic acres contracted to grow sugar cane and sugar beets; • prices of competing crops; • HFCS substitution rate; • energy costs; • supply and price of raw cane sugar in the world market; • Mexican peso to U.S. dollar exchange rate; • levels of domestic sugar refining capacity; and • weather conditions affecting the sugar cane and sugar beet crops and the operations of facilities operated by us and our competitors. The domestic sugar business has traditionally been subject to periods of high prices and margins, followed by periods of lower prices and margins. In the past, during periods of high prices, growers have tended to increase their production, which has generally caused a drop in sugar prices until the supply and demand return into balance. Our business consists exclusively of the processing and marketing of refined cane sugar. Consequently, we are unable to counteract the fluctuations to which our business may be subject with revenues or income from businesses that are more predictable or that are subject to different business cycles. As discussed below, partially as a result of the volatile nature of the sugar industry, we have at times in the past experienced operating losses and net losses. Our Port Wentworth refinery is supplied almost exclusively by imported raw sugar. Supplies and pricing of imported raw sugar can be influenced by increased world raw sugar prices. Raw sugar imports into the 11 Table of Contents United States compete for surplus production in exporting counties with alternative sales on the world raw sugar market. Recent events affecting the supply of raw sugar in the world market have increased prices to 30 year high levels, causing domestic raw sugar prices to increase substantially. We compete with domestic beet processors and other cane sugar refiners who own some or all of their source of supply and may not be impacted to the degree we are by these factors. We purchase raw sugar of varying quality from many different countries. Lower quality raw sugar can have an adverse effect on our operating performance. If we have an inadequate supply of raw sugar or unacceptable quality, we may be unable to efficiently operate our refineries or meet domestic demand for refined sugar. We may not be able to increase refined sugar prices to our customers to offset such higher raw sugar costs, which could adversely affect our refined sugar margins, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our liquidity and capital resources have been reduced and we are exploring alternative sources of capital. We have used a significant portion of our liquidity since the February 2008 industrial accident in Port Wentworth to fund operating losses and capital expenditures in excess of the applicable insurance recoveries. Operating results have not returned to profitable levels, and we have ongoing capital expenditure and pension contribution requirements. Volatility in raw sugar prices may place additional demands on our liquidity as we maintain our raw sugar purchasing and hedging program. Our revolving credit agreement becomes subject to a minimum EBITDA covenant if our average total liquidity falls below $20 million. While we believe that our available liquidity and capital resources are sufficient to meet our operating and capital needs, we are exploring alternative sources of capital to provide additional liquidity and capital resources. In conjunction with this initiative, we are seeking to renew or replace the revolving credit agreement, which is currently scheduled to expire December 31, 2011. There can be no assurance that financing will be available to us or that the terms of such financing would be attractive. Our future financial condition and future operating results could be adversely impacted by the outcome of claims, litigation and regulatory proceedings. The Company is party to a number of claims, including twenty lawsuits for injuries and losses suffered as a result of the Port Wentworth accident. If damages in these matters exceed insurance policy limits, we could be subject to liabilities, which could be material. The Company’s workers compensation insurance contract provides that it reimburse the carrier for assessments if and when the assessments are levied based on workers compensation claims paid during a calendar year. Such assessments, if levied, could be significant. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of existing and future United States and Mexican farm and trade policies. Legislative and regulatory actions substantially influence the domestic raw sugar industry. The principal current legislation supporting the price of domestic crops of sugar cane and sugar beets is the 2008 Farm Bill, which extends the sugar price support program for sugar cane and sugar beets until September 30, 2013. The USDA operates a tariff-rate quota that effectively limits the amount of raw and refined sugar that can be imported into the United States by imposing a tariff on over-quota sugar that makes its import uneconomical. This tariff-rate quota could adversely affect the supply and price of raw sugar available to our sugar refineries if there is a shortfall in domestic production. In addition, marketing allotments under the 2008 Farm Bill may reduce the amount and affect the cost of domestic raw sugar that is available to us for refining. United States farm and trade policy also influences domestic sugar grower acreage dedicated to alternate crops. Mexican farm and trade policies influence sugar production in Mexico and non-NAFTA imports, affecting the supply of sugar available for export to the United States. Any of these factors could adversely affect our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents If demand for sugar decreases in the future, lower sales volumes and lower prices could result, which could affect us adversely. We cannot predict the demand for sugar in the future and this demand could be affected adversely by numerous factors, including: • imports of sugar containing products and sugar blends; • the impact of changes in the availability, development or potential use of various types of alternative sweeteners; • future changes in consumer sweetener preferences, including impact of dietary trend; • government nutritional guidelines and labeling laws; • changes in population; and • the impact of a weaker domestic and global economy Operations at the re-built Port Wentworth refinery have yet to return to prior volumes and efficiencies. The reconstructed Port Wentworth refinery, which commenced operations in the summer of 2009, has yet to achieve sustained production volumes and efficiencies demonstrated prior to the 2008 accident. Future operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected if prior operating levels are not achieved on a sustained basis. Construction of a new refinery by the LSR joint venture involves construction and other risks. Under the terms of our LSR agreements, we will contribute our Gramercy, Louisiana refinery to the newly formed joint venture which will undertake to construct a new 3,100 ton per day cane sugar refinery. Cost overruns or construction delays could require that we contribute additional capital beyond our initial commitments to contribute our Gramercy assets. Additionally, we have contractual obligations to complete certain improvements in the existing refinery, and complete the VRP with the State of Louisiana. Unforeseen costs or liabilities arising from these matters could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. Additionally, after December 31, 2010, we will no longer have access to the cash flows generated by the existing Gramercy refinery, and distribution of cash flows generated by LSR are limited under LSR’s relevant financing agreements. Costs and availability of energy may result in increased operating expenses and reduced results of operations. Processing raw sugar into refined sugar requires a high level of energy use. We use natural gas and coal to fulfill our energy requirements and fuel prices also affect our transportation costs. Domestic energy prices, particularly natural gas and diesel prices, have been volatile in recent years and we are unable to predict the trend in future prices. Future high energy prices or disruptions of supply could adversely impact our production costs and operating efficiencies. We sell commodity products in highly competitive channels of distribution and face significant price pressure. We sell our products in highly competitive channels of distribution. We compete with other cane sugar refiners and beet sugar processors and, in certain product applications, with producers of other nutritive and non-nutritive sweeteners. We also compete with distributors and resellers in distributing bag sugar products. Our branded retail share of sales is under increasing pressure from private labels, requiring increased expenditures on innovation and trade promotion. Competition in these channels is based primarily on price and the ability to meet timely customer quality and quantity requirements. As a result, we may be unable to protect our sales position by product differentiation and may be unable to raise prices. Our ability to service customer requirements has been disrupted since the 2008 industrial accident at our Port Wentworth refinery. Some of our customers have had to seek supply from alternate sources during that period, and our ability to return to normal supply levels with our customers has not been fully demonstrated. 13 Table of Contents Historically, we have made the majority of our sales to industrial customers under fixed price, forward sales contracts which extend for up to one year. As a result, changes in our realized sales prices tend to lag behind market price changes. Some competitors may be able to further reduce their product prices because their costs are less than ours or because they have greater financial, technological and other resources than we have. In addition, most of our competitors own or control a substantial portion of their supply of raw materials. This vertical integration may provide these producers a competitive advantage because they are better able to secure a stable supply of raw materials at more favorable costs than we can. Finally, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements than we can. Increased competition and price pressure could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Damage to either of our refineries that results in prolonged interruption of operations could materially adversely affect our results. The Company conducts its operations at two refineries and is dependent upon these facilities for production. Because these facilities are located in coastal areas, they are subject to severe weather conditions, including hurricanes, tornados and flooding, as well as to normal hazards that could result in material damage. Damage to either of these refineries, or prolonged interruption in the operation of the facilities due to our dependence on ocean-going raw sugar deliveries, or for repairs or other reasons, would have a material effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. After December 31, 2010, we will no longer operate the Gramercy, Louisiana refinery reducing the Company’s refinery capacity to a single site. We have had losses in the recent past and may be unable to maintain profitable operations. We have at times in the past experienced operating losses and net losses. Losses in future years could be incurred and could be attributable to a number of factors, including: • low refined sugar prices; • low margins between raw sugar and refined sugar prices; • disruption of refinery operations; • reduced production and efficiencies of refinery operations; and • high energy costs. We compete in highly competitive labor markets. We operate facilities in competitive labor markets. In the event we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our production efficiencies and labor costs could be adversely affected. The Company incurs substantial costs with respect to pension benefits and providing healthcare for its employees. The Company’s estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and post-retirement healthcare benefits require the use of assumptions related to the rate used to discount future liability, the rate of return on plan assets, and the retirement age and mortality of current and retired employees. Future results may differ from these assumptions. In addition, rising healthcare costs and the costs of other employee benefits may affect the Company’s future benefit costs. Such future events may have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Declines in the stock market have reduced assets available to pay retirement benefits and may result in increased costs and funding requirements. Our pursuit of acquisitions and other similar initiatives involves risk. We may in the future acquire or invest in new lines of business or offer our products in new markets. We have an option until May 2011 to purchase the remaining 50% of Wholesome’s equity. While no decision on a 14 Table of Contents course of action with regard to the Wholesome option has been made, acquisitions and similar investments involve numerous risks, including: • assimilation of operations and personnel; • demands on existing management and other resources; • opportunity costs of employing capital in such investments; • potential loss of the capital invested; • consequences of incurring leverage to finance any investment; • loss of key employees or key customers of the acquired business; and • potential for unrecorded liabilities that are not discovered during due diligence. We may not realize the expected benefits from future acquisitions or similar investments, and the costs of unsuccessful investment efforts could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are exposed to costs arising from environmental compliance, and cleanup, health and safety regulation, and litigation, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Our operations are governed by various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These regulations impose limitations on releases of effluents and emissions from our facilities. They also impose requirements on our management of: • worker safety; • food quality, safety and integrity; • water resources; • air resources; • combustible dust risk mitigation; • toxic substances; • solid waste; and • emergency planning. We received a notice of termination of the contract to process our wastewater at the Port Wentworth refinery effective August 2013. If the Company cannot negotiate a new contract, we must make other arrangements for treatment and discharge of process wastewater, which may require future capital expenditures by the Company or result in increased operating costs. The Company is negotiating with EPD regarding a comprehensive plan to assure full compliance with our discharge permits and future environmental standards applicable to cooling and storm water at the Port Wentworth refinery. The results of these negotiations may require future capital expenditures by the Company. Further, implementation of any plan negotiated with EPD may result in increased operating costs. We cannot predict with certainty the extent of our future liabilities and costs under such laws and regulations, or how such regulations could impact our operations, and these impacts could be material. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 Table of Contents 