ITEM 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should consider the following factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition or financial results but these risks are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. The domestic sugar industry is affected by a number of external forces that we are unable to predict or control that could cause fluctuations in market prices, which may negatively affect our results of operations. Our results of operations are closely tied to conditions in the domestic sugar market, which is affected by a number of external forces that we are unable to predict or control and that historically has been subject to considerable volatility. Our business and results of operations are also substantially affected by market factors, principally the domestic market prices of both refined sugar and raw cane sugar. A variety of external forces that we are unable to predict influence the domestic sugar industry and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. These factors include: • the farm and trade policies of the United States government; • the number of domestic acres contracted to grow sugar cane and sugarbeets; • prices of competing crops; • energy costs; • levels of domestic sugar refining capacity; and • weather conditions affecting the sugar cane and sugar beet crops and the operations of refineries operated by us and our competitors. The domestic sugar business has traditionally been subject to periods of high prices and margins, followed by periods of lower prices and margins. In the past, during periods of high prices, growers have tended to increase their production which has generally caused a drop in sugar prices until the supply and demand return into balance. Our business consists exclusively of the processing and marketing of refined cane sugar. Consequently, we are unable to counteract the fluctuations to which our business may be subject with revenues or income from businesses that are more predictable or that are subject to different market cycles. As discussed below, partially as a result of the volatile nature of the sugar market, we have had a history of operating losses and net losses. 10 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of existing and future United States farm and trade policies, including the elimination of duties on imports of raw and refined sugar from Mexico by 2008 pursuant to the North American Free Trade Agreement. Legislative and regulatory actions also substantially influence the domestic raw sugar industry. The principal legislation currently supporting the price of domestic crops of sugar cane and sugarbeets is the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, or the Farm Bill, which became effective October 1, 2002 and extended the sugar price support program for sugar cane and sugarbeets until 2008. The Farm Bill implements a tariff-rate quota that effectively limits the amount of raw and refined sugar that can be imported into the United States by imposing a tariff on over-quota sugar that makes its import uneconomical. This tariff-rate quota could adversely affect the supply and price of raw sugar available to our sugar refineries if there is a shortfall in domestic production. In addition, marketing allotments under the Farm Bill may reduce the amount and affect the cost of domestic raw sugar that is available to us for refining. Beginning in 2008, the duties on raw and refined sugar imported from Mexico will be eliminated pursuant to NAFTA. As a result, domestic sugar manufacturers may face greater competition from refineries located in Mexico. Any of these factors could adversely affect our results of operations. The Farm Bill expires in 2008 and provisions, if any, of the successor legislation related to the domestic sugar industry and their impact on our operations cannot be predicted. If demand for sugar decreases in the future, lower sales volumes and lower prices could result, which could affect us adversely. Domestic demand for refined sugar has increased in each of the last three years after a two-year period of decline. We cannot predict the demand for sugar in the future and this demand could be affected adversely by numerous factors, including: • imports of sugar containing products and sugar blends; • the impact of changes in the availability, development or potential use of various types of sweeteners; • future changes in consumer sweetener preferences, including impact of health concerns; • changes in population size; and • decrease in demand for refined sugar. There are a limited number of sources of raw sugar available to us, and our results of operations will be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw sugar for our refineries on favorable terms. Over 90% of the raw sugar needs for our Gramercy, Louisiana refinery for the next two years are expected to be supplied by a single supplier, LSCPI, which has announced plans to enter into a joint venture agreement with Cargill to construct and operate a refinery in Louisiana. If that refinery commences operation we expect that LSCPI will supply substantially all of its raw sugar to such other refinery, and we will need to find other sources of raw sugar for our Gramercy refinery. While we are currently pursuing alternative supplies both domestically and in Mexico, there are a limited number of sources of raw sugar, and no assurance that we will be able to make alternative supply arrangement or that such arrangements may be secured on favorable terms. Supplies of raw sugar can also be adversely affected by increased raw sugar prices in international markets. In early 2006, world raw sugar prices increased substantially, before subsiding later in the year. While world raw sugar prices generally do not affect the price of domestic raw sugar, world raw sugar prices at levels that were temporarily reached early in 2006 may attract excess production from exporting countries into the world market, potentially making supplies available for import to the domestic market more scarce. Such increases occurred primarily due to changing support policies in the European Union and the use of sugar cane to produce ethanol in Brazil, which recently has experienced a dramatic increase in ethanol production and trade. Raw sugar supplies 11 Table of Contents could become tighter and prices could increase if these conditions persist. If we have an inadequate supply of raw sugar, we may be unable to efficiently operate our refineries or meet domestic demand for refined sugar. Further increases in domestic raw sugar prices may occur and we may be unable to offset increase the price of refined sugar to our customers to offset such higher costs, which could adversely affect our refined sugar margins, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Higher energy costs may result in increased operating expenses and reduced results of operations. Processing raw sugar into refined sugar requires a high level of energy use. The primary fuel we use to fulfill our energy requirements is natural gas, although we also use coal and fuel oil in our Georgia refinery. Domestic energy prices, particularly natural gas prices, have been higher in recent years and we are unable to predict the trend in future prices. Future high energy prices and unforeseen changes in the energy markets could adversely impact our production costs and operating efficiencies. We sell commodity products in highly competitive markets and face significant price pressure. We sell our products in highly competitive markets. We compete with other cane sugar refiners, including one which expanded refining capacity during the past several years, and beet sugar processors and, in certain product applications, with producers of other nutritive and non-nutritive sweeteners, such as high-fructose corn syrup, aspartame, saccharin, sucralose and acesulfame-k. We also compete with foodservice companies and resellers in distributing bag sugar products. Competition in these markets is based primarily on price and the ability to meet timely customer quality and quantity requirements. As a result, we may be unable to protect our market position by product differentiation and may be unable to pass on cost increases to our customers. Historically, we have made the majority of our sales to industrial customers under fixed price, forward sales contracts which extend for up to one year. As a result, changes in our realized sales prices tend to lag behind market price changes. Some competitors may be able to further drive down product prices because their costs are less than ours or because they have greater financial, technological and other resources than us. In addition, some of our competitors own or control their suppliers of raw materials. This vertical integration may provide these producers a competitive advantage because they are better able to secure a stable supply of raw materials at more favorable costs than we can. Finally, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements than we can. Increased competition and price pressure could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Operations”, our average sales price during fiscal 2006 increased by more than 15%. Since the end of fiscal 2006, market prices have declined from these levels, and there is no assurance that prices will return to levels at or near those for 2006. Damage to either of our refineries that results in prolonged interruption of operations could materially adversely affect our results. The Company conducts its operations at two refineries and is dependent upon such facilities for production. Because these facilities are located in coastal areas, they are subject to severe weather conditions, including hurricanes and flooding, as well as to normal hazards that could result in material damage. Damage to either of these refineries, or prolonged interruption in the operation of the facilities for repairs or other reasons, would have a material effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have had losses in the recent past and may be unable to maintain profitable operations. We have had a history of operating losses and net losses. In January 2001, as a result of our losses, adverse operating conditions, cash flow problems, a high degree of leverage, and non-compliance with our financial 12 Table of Contents covenants in prior debt instruments, we filed for protection under chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. We emerged from bankruptcy protection in August 2001. We had a net income of approximately $50 million in fiscal 2006. However, losses in future years could be incurred and could be attributable to a number of factors, including: • low refined sugar prices; • low margins between raw sugar and refined sugar prices; • high energy costs; and • costs of discontinued operations. We compete in highly competitive labor markets. We have labor retention and hiring challenges at all of our facilities, and particularly at our Gramercy refinery following the hurricanes of 2005. After evacuation and housing devastation, many people did not return to Louisiana, leaving a diminished pool of potential candidates for hire. Demand for labor has increased after the hurricanes due to reconstruction efforts. We face significant challenges hiring and retaining a qualified workforce, as many other businesses located in southern Louisiana. We raised entry-level salaries in efforts to compete for limited human capital resources but there is no guarantee that such efforts will be successful on a long-term basis. In the event we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our production efficiencies could be adversely affected. We are exposed to costs arising from environmental compliance, cleanup and litigation, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Our operations are governed by various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These regulations impose limitations on releases of effluents and emissions from our facilities. They also impose requirements on our management of: • water resources; • air resources; • toxic substances; • solid waste; and • emergency planning. We cannot predict with certainty the extent of our future liabilities and costs under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and these amounts could be material. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 