ITEM 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should consider the following factors that could materially affect our business, financial condition or operating results. These risks are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Our future financial condition and future operating results could be adversely impacted by the time and cost to reconstruct our Port Wentworth refinery, insurance recovery efforts, state of the financial markets and the outcome of claims, litigation and regulatory proceedings. Our Port Wentworth refinery is a substantial portion of our production capacity and a prolonged interruption of operations would materially adversely affect our results. Business interruption insurance provides coverage for lost income, subject to certain policy limits, during a reasonable reconstruction period, plus up to a year after such reconstruction period. If reconstruction of the facility extends beyond a reasonable period, or if we experience a business interruption for a longer period of time, business interruption recoveries may not reimburse the full amount of lost income. Our property insurance policy provides for replacement cost coverage, subject to certain policy limits. If the reconstruction costs exceed the policy limits, property insurance may not be available to fund the full reconstruction costs. Undue delay in the receipt of insurance recoveries could have an adverse impact on our liquidity. Current turmoil in the financial markets could make the availability of borrowings to finance any insurance shortfall or other liquidity need difficult, and the cost of such borrowing expensive. The Company is party to a number of claims, including nineteen lawsuits, for injuries and losses suffered as a result of the explosion. If damages in these matters exceed the policy limits, we could be subject to liabilities, which could be material. The U.S. Occupational Safety Health Administration (OSHA) and the U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (CSB) initiated investigations related to the Port Wentworth refinery explosion. OSHA also initiated an investigation of our Gramercy, Louisiana refinery. The CSB investigation is ongoing and we are cooperating in the investigation. OSHA concluded its investigations on July 25, 2008, and issued numerous citations with total proposed penalties of $5.1 million in Port Wentworth and $3.7 million in Gramercy. Additionally, OSHA issued requirements for certain abatement actions to be undertaken by us at such facilities. We have contested all of the citations and proposed penalties regarding the Port Wentworth and Gramercy investigations, and these matters have been assigned to the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission for a review of the merits of the citations, proposed penalties and abatement actions. Because the contest of the citations is in the early stages, there can be no assurance that we will prevail and an adverse result could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, OSHA penalties are not covered by insurance, and are not deductible for federal income tax purposes. 10 Table of Contents The domestic sugar industry is affected by a number of external forces that we are unable to predict or control that could cause fluctuations in market prices, which may negatively affect our results of operations. Our business and results of operations are closely tied to conditions in the domestic sugar industry, principally the market prices of both refined sugar and raw cane sugar. The sugar industry is affected by a number of external forces that we are unable to predict or control and that historically have been subject to considerable volatility. A variety of external forces that we are unable to predict influence the domestic sugar industry and could adversely affect our business and results of operations, including: • the farm and trade policies of the United States government; • the number of domestic acres contracted to grow sugar cane and sugar beets; • prices of competing crops; • energy costs; • levels of domestic sugar refining capacity; and • weather conditions affecting the sugar cane and sugar beet crops and the operations of facilities operated by us and our competitors. The domestic sugar business has traditionally been subject to periods of high prices and margins, followed by periods of lower prices and margins. In the past, during periods of high prices, growers have tended to increase their production, which has generally caused a drop in sugar prices until the supply and demand return into balance. Our business consists exclusively of the processing and marketing of refined cane sugar. Consequently, we are unable to counteract the fluctuations to which our business may be subject with revenues or income from businesses that are more predictable or that are subject to different market cycles. As discussed below, partially as a result of the volatile nature of the sugar industry, we have at times in the past experienced operating losses and net losses. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of existing and future United States farm and trade policies, including the elimination of duties on imports of raw and refined sugar from Mexico in 2008 pursuant to the North American Free Trade Agreement. Legislative and regulatory actions also substantially influence the domestic raw sugar industry. The principal current legislation supporting the price of domestic crops of sugar cane and sugar beets is the 2008 Farm Bill, which extends the sugar price support program for sugar cane and sugar beets until September 30, 2013. The USDA operates a tariff-rate quota that effectively limits the amount of raw and refined sugar that can be imported into the United States by imposing a tariff on over-quota sugar that makes its import uneconomical. This tariff-rate quota could adversely affect the supply and price of raw sugar available to our sugar refineries if there is a shortfall in domestic production. In addition, marketing allotments under the 2008 Farm Bill may reduce the amount and affect the cost of domestic raw sugar that is available to us for refining. Beginning in 2008, the duties on raw and refined sugar imported from Mexico were eliminated pursuant to NAFTA. As a result, domestic sugar manufacturers may face greater competition from sugar mills and refineries located in Mexico. Any of these factors could adversely affect our results of operations. If demand for sugar decreases in the future, lower sales volumes and lower prices could result, which could affect us adversely. Domestic demand for refined sugar increased in 2008 after decreasing in 2007. We cannot predict the demand for sugar in the future and this demand could be affected adversely by numerous factors, including: • imports of sugar containing products and sugar blends; 11 Table of Contents • the impact of changes in the availability, development or potential use of various types of sweeteners; • future changes in consumer sweetener preferences, including impact of dietary trends • changes in population; and • the impact of a weaker domestic and global economy There are a limited number of sources of raw sugar available to us, and our results of operations will be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw sugar for our refineries on favorable terms. Over 90% of the raw sugar needs for our Gramercy, Louisiana refinery for the next two years are expected to be supplied by a single supplier, LSCPI, which has announced plans to enter into a joint venture agreement with Cargill to construct and operate a refinery in Louisiana. While we are in discussion about joining that joint venture and contributing our Gramercy refining assets, there can be no assurance that the transaction will be consummated. If those discussions do not result in our participation in the joint venture and the new refinery commences operation, we expect that LSCPI will supply substantially all of its raw sugar to the new refinery, and we will need to find other sources of raw sugar for our Gramercy refinery. There are a limited number of sources of raw sugar and no assurance that we will be able to make alternative supply arrangements or that such arrangements may be secured on favorable terms. Even if we do consummate the transaction, we may not be able to realize the expected benefits from the joint venture, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Supplies of raw sugar can also be adversely affected by increased world raw sugar prices. At times in the past, world raw sugar prices increased substantially, before subsequently subsiding. While world raw sugar prices generally do not affect the price of domestic raw sugar, high world raw sugar prices may attract excess production from exporting countries into the world market, potentially making supplies available for import to the U.S. more scarce. If we have an inadequate supply of raw sugar, we may be unable to efficiently operate our refineries or meet domestic demand for refined sugar. If increases in domestic raw sugar prices occur, we may be unable to offset the increased price of refined sugar to our customers to offset such higher costs, which could adversely affect our refined sugar margins, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Higher energy costs may result in increased operating expenses and reduced results of operations. Processing raw sugar into refined sugar requires a high level of energy use. We use natural gas, coal and fuel oil to fulfill our energy requirements. Domestic energy prices, particularly natural gas prices, have been higher in recent years although there have been declines in prices in the latter part of 2008. Fuel prices have also led to increased freight costs. We are unable to predict the trend in future prices. Future high energy prices and unforeseen changes in the energy markets could adversely impact our production costs and operating efficiencies. We sell commodity products in highly competitive channels of distribution and face significant price pressure. We sell our products in highly competitive channels of distribution. We compete with other cane sugar refiners, including one which expanded refining capacity during the past several years, and beet sugar processors and, in certain product applications, with producers of other nutritive and non-nutritive sweeteners, such as high-fructose corn syrup, aspartame, saccharin, sucralose and acesulfame-k. We also compete with foodservice companies and resellers in distributing bag sugar products. Competition in these channels is based primarily on price and the ability to meet timely customer quality and quantity requirements. As a result, we may be unable to protect our sales position by product differentiation 12 Table of Contents and may be unable to raise prices. Historically, we have made the majority of our sales to industrial customers under fixed price, forward sales contracts which extend for up to one year. As a result, changes in our realized sales prices tend to lag behind market price changes. Some competitors may be able to further reduce their product prices because their costs are less than ours or because they have greater financial, technological and other resources than us. In addition, most of our competitors own or control their supply of raw materials. This vertical integration may provide these producers a competitive advantage because they are better able to secure a stable supply of raw materials at more favorable costs than we can. Finally, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements than we can. Increased competition and price pressure could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Damage to either of our refineries that results in prolonged interruption of operations could materially adversely affect our results. The Company conducts its operations at two refineries and is dependent upon such facilities for production. Because these facilities are located in coastal areas, they are subject to severe weather conditions, including hurricanes and flooding, as well as to normal hazards that could result in material damage. Damage to either of these refineries, or prolonged interruption in the operation of the facilities due to our dependence on ocean-going raw sugar deliveries, or for repairs or other reasons, would have a material effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have had losses in the recent past and may be unable to maintain profitable operations. We have at times in the past experienced operating losses and net losses. Losses in future years could be incurred and could be attributable to a number of factors, including: • low refined sugar prices; • low margins between raw sugar and refined sugar prices; • disruption of refinery operations; • high energy costs; and • insufficient raw material to enable us to operate our facilities efficiently. We compete in highly competitive labor markets. We operate facilities in competitive labor markets. In the event we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our production efficiencies could be adversely affected. The Company incurs substantial costs with respect to pension benefits and providing healthcare for its employees. The Company’s estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and post-retirement healthcare benefits require the use of assumptions related to the rate used to discount future liability, the rate of return on plan assets, and the retirement age and mortality of current and retired employees. Future results may differ from these assumptions. In addition, rising healthcare costs and the costs of other employee benefits may affect the Company’s future benefit costs. Such future events may have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Recent declines in the stock market have reduced assets available to pay retirement benefits and may result in increased costs and funding requirements. 13 Table of Contents Our pursuit of acquisitions and other similar initiatives involves risk. We may in the future acquire or invest in new lines of business or offer our products in new markets. Acquisitions and similar investments involve numerous risks, including: • assimilation of operations and personnel; • demands on existing management and other resources; • opportunity costs of employing capital in such investments; • potential loss of the capital invested; • consequences of incurring leverage to finance any investment; • loss of key employees or key customers of the acquired business; and • potential for unrecorded liabilities that are not discovered during due diligence. We may not realize the expected benefits from future acquisitions or similar investments, and the costs of unsuccessful investment efforts could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are exposed to costs arising from environmental compliance, cleanup and litigation, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Our operations are governed by various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These regulations impose limitations on releases of effluents and emissions from our facilities. They also impose requirements on our management of: • water resources; • air resources; • combustible dust risk mitigation; • toxic substances; • solid waste; and • emergency planning. We cannot predict with certainty the extent of our future liabilities and costs under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, or how such regulations could impact our reconstruction of the Port Wentworth refinery, and these impacts could be material. The global financial crisis may have impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. The continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have an impact on our business and our financial condition. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access those markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. In addition, the cost of debt financing and the proceeds of equity financing may be materially adversely impacted by these market conditions. The credit crisis also could have an impact on our lenders, suppliers, insurers or our customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. The current economic situation also could lead to reduced demand for refined sugar products, or lower prices for such products, or both, which could have a negative impact on our revenues. 14 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 