Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects can be impacted by a number of factors, any one of which could cause our actual results to differ materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose a part or all of your investment. You should carefully consider the risks described below with all of the other information included in this Annual Report. Failure to satisfactorily achieve any of our objectives or avoid any of the risks below would likely have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business Our losses will continue to increase as we expand our development efforts, and our efforts may never result in profitability. Our cumulative losses since our inception in 1987 through December 31, 2006 were in excess of $200 million. We lost approximately $23 million in 2006, $19 million in 2005, and $12 million in 2004. We expect to continue to incur significant additional losses as we implement our growth strategy of developing marketable drug products for at least the next several years unless they are offset, if at all, by licensing revenues under our out-license agreement with GPC Biotech or from the out-license of any of our other proprietary products and any profits from the sale of generic products. We may never achieve significant revenues from sales of products or become profitable. Even if we eventually generate significant revenues from sales, we will likely continue to incur losses over the next several years. Our business does not generate the cash needed to finance our ongoing operations and therefore, we will likely need to continue to raise additional capital. Our current business operations do not generate sufficient operating cash to finance the clinical development of our drug product candidates. We have historically relied primarily on raising capital through the sale of our securities and out-licensing our drug candidates and technology to meet our financial needs. While we anticipate meaningful revenues in 2007 from milestone payments and royalties from our satraplatin license agreement with GPC Biotech, and in 2008 from distribution of authorized generic versions of certain sumatriptan injection products by Par, we believe that in the near-term we will likely need to continue to raise funds through public or private financings in order to continue future drug product development and acquisition, and to capitalize on growth opportunities. 25 Table of Contents We may not be able to raise additional capital on favorable terms, if at all. Accordingly, we may be forced to significantly change our business plans and restructure our operations to conserve cash, which would likely involve out-licensing or selling some or all of our intellectual, technological and tangible property not presently contemplated and at terms that we believe would not be favorable to us, and/or reducing the scope and nature of our currently planned drug development activities. An inability to raise additional capital would also impact our ability to expand operations. Clinical trials may fail to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our proprietary drug candidates, which could prevent or significantly delay obtaining regulatory approval. Prior to receiving approval to commercialize any of our proprietary drug candidates, we must demonstrate with substantial evidence from well-controlled clinical trials, and to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the United States and other countries, that each of the products is both safe and effective. For each product candidate, we will need to demonstrate its efficacy and monitor its safety throughout the process. If such development is unsuccessful, our business and reputation would be harmed and our stock price would be adversely affected. All of our product candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. The results of pre-clinical studies and early-stage clinical trials of our product candidates do not necessarily predict the results of later-stage clinical trials. Later-stage clinical trials may fail to demonstrate that a product candidate is safe and effective despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. Even if we believe the data collected from clinical trials of our drug candidates are promising, such data may not be sufficient to support approval by the FDA or any other United States or foreign regulatory approval. Pre-clinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways. Accordingly, FDA officials could interpret such data in different ways than we or our partners do, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The FDA, other regulatory authorities, our institutional review boards, our contract research organizations, or we may suspend or terminate our clinical trials for our drug candidates. Any failure or significant delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates, or in receiving regulatory approval for the sale of any drugs resulting from our drug candidates, may severely harm our business and reputation. Even if we receive FDA and other regulatory approvals, our product candidates may later exhibit adverse effects that may limit or prevent their widespread use, may cause the FDA to revoke, suspend or limit their approval, or may force us to withdraw products derived from those candidates from the market. Our proprietary drug candidates, their target indications, and status of development are summarized in the following table: Drug Candidate Target Indication Development Status Satraplatin Hormone Refractory Prostate Cancer NDA submitted February 2007 In multiple trials in other cancer types; in combination with radiation therapy; and in combination with other chemotherapies Phase(s) 1-2 Levofolinic acid, or LFA, High dose methotrexate rescue in Osteogenic Sarcoma NDA on file with FDA; CMC responses pending Colorectal Cancer Planned regulatory filing EOquin Non-invasive Bladder Cancer Phase 2 completed; SPA negotiated with FDA; Phase 3 to start in the first half of 2007 Ozarelix Benign Prostatic Hypertrophy Phase 2b initiated first quarter of 2007; Phase 3/Safety Study to initiate late 2007 Hormone dependent prostate cancer Phase 2 study completed in 2006; Phase 2b study in progress in Europe Endometriosis Phase 1 study in second half of 2007 Elsamitrucin Various potential cancers Phase 1/2 26 Table of Contents Lucanthone Radiation Sensitizer for Gliobastoma Multiforme and other Brain Tumors and Brain Metastases Phase 1 expected to initiate in second half of 2007 SPI-1620 Adjunct to Chemotherapy Pre-clinical RenaZorb Hyperphosphatemia in End-stage Renal Disease Pre-clinical SPI-205 Chemotherapy Induced Neuropathy Pre-clinical The development of our drug candidate, satraplatin, depends on the efforts of a third party and, therefore, its eventual success or commercial viability is largely beyond our control. In 2002, we entered into a co-development and license agreement with GPC Biotech AG for the worldwide development and commercialization of our lead drug candidate, satraplatin. GPC Biotech has agreed to fully fund development and commercialization expenses for satraplatin. We do not have control over the drug development process and therefore the success of our lead drug candidate depends upon the efforts of GPC Biotech and its sublicensee, Pharmion. GPC Biotech and its sub licensee may not be successful in the clinical development of the drug, the achievement of any additional milestones such as the acceptance of a NDA filing by the FDA, or the eventual commercialization of satraplatin. We may not be able to obtain co-promotion rights in the United States with regard to our drug candidate, satraplatin, under our co-development and license agreement with GPC Biotech AG which may adversely affect our ability to timely establish our own sales force in the United States, if and when we choose to do so. Pursuant to the terms of our co-development and license agreement with GPC Biotech, in the event GPC Biotech determines to market satraplatin itself within the United States, we will have the right to co-promote satraplatin in the United States with GPC Biotech pursuant to terms to be negotiated by both parties. If GPC Biotech grants rights to a third party to market satraplatin in the United States, then GPC Biotech is only obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain co-promotion rights for us with such third party. Therefore, we may not be able to obtain co-promotion rights for satraplatin in the United States, which may adversely affect our ability to timely establish our own sales force in the United States, if and when we choose to do so. An adverse outcome in the arbitration proceedings with GPC Biotech may hurt our financial and strategic prospects. We are currently in arbitration with GPC Biotech as described in Item 3 “Legal Proceedings.” In the arbitration, we seek monetary damages and other relief for GPC Biotech’s material breach of our license agreement, including a declaration that GPC Biotech’s breaches provide a basis for termination of the license agreement. GPC Biotech has filed counterclaims and is asking for, among other things, a discharge from any obligation to negotiate a co-promotion agreement with us for satraplatin in the U.S. and a perpetual, paid-up, royalty-free worldwide license to develop and market satraplatin. We believe that GPC Biotech’s counterclaims are baseless and without merit, however, the arbitration panel may decide otherwise, which could cause us significant financial and strategic harm if we were to lose our co-promotion right and/or our right to receive milestone payments and royalties. In addition, the fact that we are currently in arbitration may make it difficult for us to agree on terms of a co-promotion agreement with GPC Biotech. 27 Table of Contents Our drug candidate LFA may not be more effective, safer or more cost efficient than competing drugs and otherwise may not have any competitive advantage, which could hinder our ability to successfully commercialize it. LFA is the pure active isomer of calcium leucovorin, a component of “standard of care” 5-FU containing regimens for the treatment of colorectal cancer and other malignancies. Leucovorin has been sold as a generic product on the market for a number of years. There are a number of generic companies currently selling the product. Even if LFA ultimately receives FDA approval, it may not have better efficacy in treating the target indication or a more favorable side-effect profile than generic leucovorin. If we are not able to demonstrate a competitive advantage over generic leucovorin, we may not be able to obtain a price premium over generic leucovorin. If we are not able to obtain a price premium, we may not be able to manufacture LFA in a cost efficient manner or at a cost below the generic leucovorin cost price. Also, LFA will be offered as part of a treatment regimen, and that regimen may change to exclude LFA. Accordingly, even if FDA approval is obtained for LFA, it may not gain acceptance by the medical field or become commercially successful. The eventual FDA approval and subsequent marketing and sale of our drug candidate levofolinic acid, or LFA, may be adversely affected by the marketing and sale efforts of third parties who sell LFA outside North America. We have only licensed the rights to develop, market and sell LFA in North America. Other companies, such as Wyeth and Sanofi-Aventis Inc., market and sell LFA in other parts of the world. If, as a result of their actions, negative publicity is associated with LFA, our own efforts to successfully receive FDA approval for, and subsequently, market and sell LFA, may be adversely impacted. The development of our drug candidate, ozarelix, may be adversely affected if the development efforts of Zentaris GmbH who retained certain rights to the product, are not successful. Zentaris GmbH licensed the rights to us to develop and market ozarelix in the United States, Canada, Mexico and India. Zentaris may conduct their own clinical trials on ozarelix for regulatory approval in other parts of the world. We will not have control over Zentaris’ efforts in this area. and our own development efforts for ozarelix may be adversely impacted if their efforts are not successful. From time to time we may need to license patents, intellectual property and proprietary technologies from third parties, which may be difficult or expensive to obtain. We may need to obtain licenses to patents and other proprietary rights held by third parties to successfully develop, manufacture and market our drug products. As an example, it may be necessary to use a third party’s proprietary technology to reformulate one of our drug products in order to improve upon the capabilities of the drug product. If we are unable to timely obtain these licenses on reasonable terms, our ability to commercially exploit our drug products may be inhibited or prevented. The inability to retain and attract key personnel could significantly hinder our growth strategy and might cause our business to fail. Our success depends upon the contributions of our key management and scientific personnel, especially Dr. Rajesh C. Shrotriya, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and Dr. Luigi Lenaz, our Chief Scientific Officer. Dr. Shrotriya has been President since 2000 and Chief Executive Officer since 2002, and has spearheaded our business strategy. Dr. Lenaz has been President of our Oncology Division from November 2000 to February 2005 and Chief Scientific Officer since February 2005, and has played a key role in the identification and development of our proprietary drug candidates. The loss of the services of Dr. Shrotriya, Dr. Lenaz or any other key personnel could delay or preclude us from achieving our business objectives. Dr. Shrotriya has an employment agreement with us that will expire on December 31, 2007, with automatic one-year renewals thereafter unless we, or Dr. Shrotriya, give notice of intent not to renew 28 Table of Contents at least 90 days in advance of the renewal date. Dr. Lenaz has an employment agreement with us that will expire on July 1, 2007, with automatic one-year renewals thereafter unless we, or Dr. Lenaz, give notice of intent not to renew at least 90 days in advance of the renewal date. We may also need substantial additional expertise in marketing, pharmaceutical drug development and other areas in order to achieve our business objectives. Competition for qualified personnel among pharmaceutical companies is intense, and the loss of key personnel, or the delay or inability to attract and retain the additional skilled personnel required for the expansion of our business, could significantly damage our business. Our collaborations with outside scientists may be subject to change, which could limit our access to their expertise. We work with scientific advisors and collaborators at academic research institutions. These scientists are not our employees and may have other commitments that would limit their availability to us. If a conflict of interest between their work for us and their work for another entity arises, we may lose their services. Although our scientific advisors and academic collaborators sign agreements not to disclose our confidential information, it is possible that some of our valuable proprietary knowledge may become publicly known through them. We may be dependent on third parties for marketing our proposed proprietary products. If we are not able to secure favorable arrangements with such third parties, our business and financial condition could be harmed. We currently do not have the capability to market our drug products ourselves. We may seek to secure favorable arrangements with third parties to promote and market our proposed proprietary products. If we are not able to secure favorable commercial terms or arrangements with third parties for marketing and promotion of our proposed proprietary products, we may choose to retain promotional and marketing rights and seek to develop the commercial resources necessary to promote or market or co-promote or co-market certain or all of our proprietary drug candidates to the appropriate channels of distribution in order to reach the specific medical market that we are targeting. We may not be able to enter into any partnering arrangements on this or any other basis. If we are not able to secure favorable partnering arrangements, or are unable to develop the appropriate resources necessary for the commercialization of our proposed proprietary products, our business and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, we would be required to hire additional employees or consultants, since our current employees have limited experience in these areas. Sufficient employees with relevant skills may not be available to us. Any increase in the number of our employees would increase our expense level, and could have an adverse effect on our financial position. In addition, we, or our potential commercial partners, may not successfully introduce our proposed proprietary products or our proposed proprietary products may not achieve acceptance by patients, health care providers and insurance companies. To the extent that our corporate partners conduct clinical trials, we may not be able to control the design and conduct of these clinical trials. We may rely on contract research organizations and other third parties to conduct clinical trials and, in such cases, we are unable to directly control the timing, conduct and expense of our clinical trials. We may rely, in full or in part, on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. In such situations, we have less control over the conduct of our clinical trials, the timing and completion of the trials, the required reporting of adverse events and the management of data developed through the trial than would be the case if we were relying entirely upon our own staff. Communicating with outside parties can also be challenging, potentially leading to mistakes as well as difficulties in coordinating activities. Outside parties may have staffing difficulties, may undergo changes in priorities or may become financially distressed, adversely affecting their willingness or ability to conduct our trials. We may experience unexpected cost increases that are beyond our control. Problems with the timeliness or quality of the work of a contract research organization may lead us to seek to terminate the relationship and use 29 Table of Contents an alternative service provider. However, making this change may be costly and may delay our trials, and contractual restrictions may make such a change difficult or impossible. Additionally, it may be impossible to find a replacement organization that can conduct our trials in an acceptable manner and at an acceptable cost. We may have conflicts with our partners that could delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our product candidates. We may have conflicts with our partners, such as conflicts concerning the interpretation of preclinical or clinical data, the achievement of milestones, the interpretation of contractual obligations, payments for services, development obligations or the ownership of intellectual property developed during our collaboration. If any conflicts arise with any of our partners, such partner may act in a manner that is adverse to our best interests. Any such disagreement could result in one or more of the following, each of which could delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our product candidates, and in turn prevent us from generating revenues: • unwillingness on the part of a partner to pay us milestone payments or royalties we believe are due to us under a collaboration; • uncertainty regarding ownership of intellectual property rights arising from our collaborative activities, which could prevent us from entering into additional collaborations; • unwillingness by the partner to cooperate in the development or manufacture of the product, including providing us with product data or materials; • unwillingness on the part of a partner to keep us informed regarding the progress of its development and commercialization activities or to permit public disclosure of the results of those activities; • initiation of litigation or alternative dispute resolution options by either party to resolve the dispute; or • attempts by either party to terminate the agreement. Our efforts to acquire or in-license and develop additional proprietary drug candidates may fail, which would limit our ability to grow our proprietary business. The long-term success of our strategy depends in part on our ability to acquire or in-license drug candidates in addition to those drug candidates currently in our existing portfolio. We are actively seeking to acquire, or in-license, additional proprietary drug candidates that demonstrate the potential to be both medically and commercially viable. We have certain criteria that we are looking for in any drug candidate acquisition and we may not be successful in locating and acquiring, or in-licensing, additional desirable drug candidates on acceptable terms. In addition, many other large and small companies within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry seek to establish collaborative arrangements for product research and development, or otherwise acquire products in late-stage clinical development, in competition with us. We face additional competition from public and private research organizations, academic institutions and governmental agencies in establishing collaborative arrangements for product candidates in late-stage clinical development. Many of the companies and institutions that compete against us have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs and facilities than we have, and greater experience in conducting business development activities. These entities represent significant competition to us as we seek to expand our pipeline through the in-license or acquisition of compounds. Moreover, while it is not feasible to predict the actual cost of acquiring additional product candidates, that cost could be substantial and we may need to raise additional financing or issue additional equity securities, either of which may further dilute existing stockholders, in order to acquire new product candidates. We are a small company relative to our principal competitors, and our limited financial resources may limit our ability to develop and market our drug products. Many companies, both public and private, including well-known pharmaceutical companies and smaller niche-focused companies, are developing products to treat many, if not all, of the diseases we are pursuing or are currently 30 Table of Contents distributing or may be developing drug products that directly compete with the drugs we intend to develop, market and distribute. Many of these companies have substantially greater financial, research and development, manufacturing, marketing and sales experience and resources than us. As a result, our competitors may be more successful than us in developing their products, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing their products to consumers. Competition for branded or proprietary drugs is less driven by price and is more focused on innovation in treatment of disease, advanced drug delivery and specific clinical benefits over competitive drug therapies. We have nine proprietary drug candidates currently under development. We may not be successful in any or all of these studies; or if successful, and if one or more of our proprietary drug candidates is approved by the FDA, we may encounter direct competition from other companies who may be developing products for similar or the same indications as our drug candidates. Companies that have products on the market or in research and development that target the same indications as our products target include Ardana Bioscience, Astra Zeneca LP, Amgen, Inc., Bayer AG, Bioniche Life Sciences Inc., Eli Lilly and Co., Ferring Pharmaceuticals, NeoRx Corporation, Genentech, Inc., Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, GlaxoSmithKline, Biogen-IDEC Pharmaceuticals, Inc., OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Cephalon, Inc., Sanofi- Aventis Inc., Pfizer, Inc., AVI Biopharma, Inc., Chiron Corp., Genta Inc., Genzyme Corporation, Imclone Systems Incorporated, Millennium Pharmaceuticals, MGI Pharma, Inc., SuperGen, Inc., Shire Pharmaceuticals, TAP Pharmaceuticals, Inc., QLT Inc., Threshold Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Roche Pharmaceuticals, Schering-Plough, Johnson & Johnson and others who may be more advanced in development of competing drug candidates or are more established and are currently marketing products for the treatment of various indications that our drug candidates target. Many of our competitors are large and well-capitalized companies focusing on a wide range of diseases and drug indications, and have substantially greater financial, research and development, marketing, human and other resources than we do. Furthermore, large pharmaceutical companies have significantly more experience than we do in pre-clinical testing, human clinical trials and regulatory approval procedures, among other things. Our proprietary drug candidates may not be more effective, safer or more cost-efficient than competing drugs and otherwise may not have any competitive advantage, which could hinder our ability to successfully commercialize our drug candidates. Any proprietary product for which we obtain FDA approval must compete for market acceptance and market share. Drugs produced by other companies are currently on the market for each disease type we are pursuing. Even if one or more of our drug candidates ultimately received FDA approval, our drug candidates may not have better efficacy in treating the target indication than a competing drug, may not have a more favorable side-effect profile than a competing drug, may not be more cost-efficient to manufacture or apply, or otherwise may not demonstrate a competitive advantage over competing therapies. Accordingly, even if FDA approval is obtained for one or more of our drug candidates, they may not gain acceptance by the medical field or become commercially successful. Our supply of drug products will be dependent upon the production capabilities of CMOs and component and packaging supply sources, which may limit our ability to meet demand for our products and ensure regulatory compliance or maximize profit on the sale of our products. We have no internal manufacturing capacity for our drug product candidates, and, therefore, we have entered into agreements with CMOs to supply us with active pharmaceutical ingredients and our finished dose drug products, subject to further agreement on pricing for particular drug products. Consequently, we will be dependent on our CMO partners for our supply of drug products. Some of these manufacturing facilities are located outside the United States. The manufacture of finished drug products, including the acquisition of compounds used in the manufacture of the finished drug product, may require considerable lead times. We will have little or no control over the production process. Accordingly, while we do not currently anticipate shortages of supply, there could arise circumstances in which we will not have adequate clinical supplies to timely meet our clinical development objectives or market demand for a particular drug product could outstrip the ability of our supply source to timely manufacture and deliver the product, thereby causing us to lose sales. In addition, our ability to make a profit on the sale of our drug products depends on our ability to obtain transfer price arrangements that ensure a supply of product at favorable prices. Reliance on CMOs entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured products ourselves, including reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and adherence to FDA’s current cGMP requirements, the possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the CMO because of factors beyond our control and the possibility of termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the CMO, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. Before we can obtain marketing approval for our product candidates, our CMO facilities must pass an FDA pre-approval inspection. In order to obtain approval, all of the facility’s manufacturing methods, equipment and processes must comply with cGMP requirements. The cGMP requirements govern all areas of record keeping, production processes and controls, personnel and quality control. Any failure of our third party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations, including an FDA pre-approval inspection and cGMP requirements, could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delay, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product, operation restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. We may not be successful in establishing additional active pharmaceutical ingredient or finished dose drug supply relationships, which would limit our ability to develop and market our drug products. Success in the development and marketing of our drugs depends in part upon our ability to maintain, expand and enhance our existing relationships and establish new sources of supply for active pharmaceutical ingredients, or API, or for the manufacture of our finished dose drug products. We do not presently intend to focus our research and development efforts on developing active pharmaceutical ingredients or manufacturing of dosage form for our drugs. In addition, we currently have no capacity to manufacture APIs or finished dose drug products and do not intend to spend our capital resources to develop the capacity to do so. Therefore, we must rely on relationships with API suppliers and other CMOs, to supply our active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished dose generic drug products. We may not be successful in maintaining, expanding or enhancing our existing relationships or in securing new relationships with API suppliers or CMOs. If we fail to maintain or expand our existing relationships or secure new relationships, our ability to development and market our drug products will be harmed. We are dependent on a third party to market, sell and distribute our generic product sumatriptan injection. We have a development and marketing agreement with Par Pharmaceutical Companies, Inc. whereby Par has agreed to market, sell and distribute sumatriptan injection generic product. While we have responsibility for the development activities associated with sumatriptan injection, Par has the ultimate responsibility for the selling and marketing of the products, and, therefore, the success of our sumatriptan injection generic products depend upon the specific selling and marketing efforts undertaken by Par. Par may not be successful in its marketing, which may adversely affect our ability to commercially exploit it. Intense competition from a large number of generic companies may make the marketing and sale of our generic drugs not commercially feasible and not profitable. We will be competing against generic companies such as Teva Pharmaceuticals, Sandoz, Barr Laboratories, Mylan Laboratories Inc., Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Genpharm, Dr. Reddy’s, Ranbaxy, American Pharmaceutical Partners, Bedford Laboratories, Mayne Pharmaceuticals and others. In addition, we anticipate that 31 Table of Contents many foreign manufacturers will continue to enter the generic market due to low barriers to entry. These companies may have greater economies of scale in the production of their products and, in certain cases, may produce their own product supplies, such as active pharmaceutical ingredients, or can procure product supplies on more favorable terms which may provide significant cost and supply advantages to customers in the retail prescription market. We expect that the generic market will be competitive and will be largely dominated by the competitors listed above who will target many, if not all, of the same products for development as us. Price and other competitive pressures may make the marketing and sale of our generic drugs not commercially feasible and not profitable. The generic drug market in the United States is extremely competitive, characterized by many domestic and foreign participants and constant downward price pressure on generic drug prices. Our ability to compete effectively in the generic drug market depends largely on our ability to obtain transfer price agreements that ensure a supply of our generic drug products at favorable prices. Even if we obtain regulatory approval to market our generic drug candidates in the United States, we may not be able to complete a transfer price arrangement with the manufacturers of the drug candidates that will allow us to market the generic drug products in the United States on terms favorable to us, or at all. 32 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Rapid bio-technological advancement may render our drug candidates obsolete before we are able to recover expenses incurred in connection with their development. As a result, our drug products may never become profitable. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapidly evolving biotechnology. Biotechnologies under development by other pharmaceutical companies could result in treatments for diseases and disorders for which we are developing our own treatments. Several other companies are engaged in research and development of compounds that are similar to our research. A competitor could develop a new biotechnology, product or therapy that has better efficacy, a more favorable side-effect profile or is more cost-effective than one or more of our drug candidates and thereby cause our drug candidate to become commercially obsolete. Some of our drug candidates may become obsolete before we recover the expenses incurred in their development. As a result, such products may never become profitable. Competition for patients in conducting clinical trials may prevent or delay product development and strain our limited financial resources. Many pharmaceutical companies are conducting clinical trials in patients with the disease indications that our drug candidates target. As a result, we must compete with them for clinical sites, physicians and the limited number of patients who fulfill the stringent requirements for participation in clinical trials. Also, due to the confidential nature of clinical trials, we do not know how many of the eligible patients may be enrolled in competing studies and who are consequently not available to us for our clinical trials. Our clinical trials may be delayed or terminated due to the inability to enroll enough patients to complete our clinical trials. Patient enrollment depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the study. The delay or inability to meet planned patient enrollment may result in increased costs and delays or termination of the trial, which could have a harmful effect on our ability to develop products. 33 Table of Contents We may not be successful in obtaining regulatory approval to market and sell our proprietary or generic drug candidates. Before our proprietary drug candidates can be marketed and sold, regulatory approval must be obtained from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory agencies. We must demonstrate to the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the United States and abroad that our product candidates satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy. We will need to conduct significant additional research, pre-clinical testing and clinical testing, before we can file applications with the FDA for approval of our product candidates. The process of obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals is time-consuming, expensive, and can be difficult to design and implement. The review and approval, or denial, process for an application can take years. The FDA, or comparable foreign regulatory agencies, may not timely, or ever, approve an application. Among the many possibilities, the FDA may require substantial additional testing or clinical trials or find our drug candidate is not sufficiently safe or effective in treating the targeted disease. This could result in the denial or delay of product approval. Our product development costs will increase if we experience delays in testing or approvals. Further, a competitor may develop a competing drug or therapy that impairs or eliminates the commercial feasibility of our drug candidates. In order to obtain approval for our generic drug candidates, we will need to scientifically demonstrate that our drug product is safe and bioequivalent to the innovator drug. The FDA may not agree that our safety and 34 Table of Contents bioequivalence studies provide sufficient support for approval. This could result in denial or delay of FDA approval of our generic products. Generic drugs generally have a relatively short window in which they can be profitable before other manufacturers introduce competing products that impose downward pressure on prices and reduce market share for other versions of the generic drug. Consequently, delays in obtaining FDA approval may also significantly impair our ability to compete. Our failure to comply with governmental regulations may delay or prevent approval of our product candidates and/or subject us to penalties. The FDA and comparable agencies in foreign countries impose many requirements on the introduction of new drugs through lengthy and detailed clinical testing and data collection procedures, and other costly and time consuming compliance procedures. While we believe that we are currently in compliance with applicable FDA regulations, if partners, our contract research organizations, our contract manufacturing organizations or we fail to comply with the regulations applicable to our clinical testing, the FDA may delay, suspend or cancel our clinical trials, or the FDA might not accept the test results. The FDA, an institutional review board at our clinical trial sites, our third party investigators, any comparable regulatory agency in another country, or we, may suspend clinical trials at any time if the trials expose subjects participating in such trials to unacceptable health risks. Further, human clinical testing may not show any current or future product candidate to be safe and effective to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable regulatory agencies or the data derived from the clinical tests may be unsuitable for submission to the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Once we submit a drug candidate for commercial sale approval, the FDA or other regulatory agencies may not issue their approvals on a timely basis, if at all. If we are delayed or fail to obtain these approvals, our business and prospects may be significantly damaged. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, we, our partners, our manufacturers, and other contract entities will continue to be subject to extensive requirements by a number of national, foreign, state and local agencies. These regulations will impact many aspects of our operations, including testing, research and development, manufacturing, safety, effectiveness, labeling, storage, quality control, adverse event reporting, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of our future products. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could, among other things, result in: • fines; • changes in advertising; • revocation or suspension of regulatory approvals of products; • product recalls or seizures; • delays, interruption, or suspension of product distribution, marketing and sale; • civil or criminal sanctions; and • refusals to approve new products. The discovery of previously unknown problems with drug products approved to go to market may raise costs or prevent us from marketing such product. The later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products may result in restrictions of the product candidate, including withdrawal from manufacture. In addition, the FDA may revisit and change its prior determinations with regard to the safety and efficacy of our future products. If the FDA’s position changes, we may be required to change our labeling or to cease manufacture and marketing of the challenged products. Even prior to any formal regulatory action, we could voluntarily decide to cease the distribution and sale or recall any of our future products if concerns about their safety or effectiveness develop. 35 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with advertising regulations enforced by the FDA and the Federal Trade Commission may subject us to sanctions, damage our reputation and adversely affect our business condition. In their regulation of advertising, the FDA and the Federal Trade Commission from time to time issue correspondence alleging that some advertising or promotional practices are false, misleading or deceptive. The FDA has the power to impose a wide array of sanctions on companies for such advertising practices, and the receipt of correspondence from the FDA alleging these practices could result in any of the following: • incurring substantial expenses, including fines, penalties, legal fees and costs to comply with the FDA’s requirements; • changes in the methods of marketing and selling products; • taking FDA-mandated corrective action, which may include placing advertisements or sending letters to physicians, rescinding previous advertisements or promotions; and • disruption in the distribution of products and loss of sales until compliance with the FDA’s position is obtained. If we were to become subject to any of the above requirements, it could be damaging to our reputation, and our business condition could be adversely affected. Physicians may prescribe pharmaceutical products for uses that are not described in a product’s labeling or differ from those tested by us and approved by the FDA. While such “off-label” uses are common and the FDA does not regulate physicians’ choice of treatments, the FDA does restrict a manufacturer’s communications on the subject of off-label use. Companies cannot actively promote FDA-approved pharmaceutical products for off-label uses, but they may disseminate to physicians articles published in peer-reviewed journals. If our promotional activities fail to comply with the FDA’s regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, the FDA. Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system and pharmaceutical industry may hurt our ability to sell our products profitably or at all. In both the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been and may continue to be a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system and pharmaceutical industry in ways that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. Sales of our products depend in part on the availability of reimbursement from third party payers such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers, health maintenance organizations including pharmacy benefit managers and other health care-related organizations. Both the federal and state governments in the United States and foreign governments continue to propose and pass new legislation, rules and regulations designed to contain or reduce the cost of health care, including, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or the Medicare Modernization Act, which was recently enacted. This legislation provides a new Medicare prescription drug benefit beginning in 2006 and mandates other reforms. Also, the passage of the Medicare Modernization Act reduces reimbursement for certain drugs used in the treatment of cancer. The new benefit, which will be managed by private health insurers, pharmacy benefit managers and other managed care organizations, may result in decreased reimbursement for prescription drugs, which may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce the prices charged for prescription drugs. This could harm our ability to market our products and generate revenues. It is possible that other proposals will be adopted or existing regulations that affect the price of pharmaceutical and other medical products may also change before any of our products are approved for marketing. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for any of our products that we are developing. In addition, third party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly-approved pharmaceutical products. Our products may not be considered cost-effective, or adequate third party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize a return on our investments. In addition, new court decisions, FDA interpretations, and legislative changes have modified the rules governing eligibility for and the timing of 180-day market exclusivity periods, a period of marketing exclusivity that the FDA 36 Table of Contents may grant to an ANDA applicant who is the first to file a legal challenge to patents of branded drugs. We recently settled our case with GSK for sumatriptan injection, the generic form of GSK’s Imitrex® injection, whereby we acquired the right to exclusively distribute authorized generic versions of certain sumatriptan injectable products in the U.S. Any changes in the Hatch-Waxman Act, FDA regulations, procedures, or interpretations may make ANDA approvals of generic drugs more difficult, limit the benefits available through the granting of 180-day marketing exclusivity or limit the ability for us to market authorized generic versions of branded products. If we are not able to market our authorized generic versions of sumatriptan injection, for any reason, our product may not gain market share, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. As part of the Medicare Modernization Act, companies are now required to file with the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice certain types of agreements entered into between branded and generic pharmaceutical companies related to the manufacture, marketing and sale of generic versions of branded drugs. This new requirement could affect the manner in which generic drug manufacturers resolve intellectual property litigation and other disputes with branded pharmaceutical companies, and could result generally in an increase in private-party litigation against pharmaceutical companies. The impact of this new requirement, and the potential private-party lawsuits associated with arrangements between brand name and generic drug manufacturers, could adversely affect our business. Additional government regulations, legislation, or policies may be enacted which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government action that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market our products and our business could suffer. Our corporate compliance program may not ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable “fraud and abuse” laws and regulations, and a failure to comply with such regulations or prevail in litigation related to noncompliance could harm our business. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have faced lawsuits and investigations pertaining to violations of health care “fraud and abuse” laws, such as the federal false claims act, the federal anti-kickback statute, and other state and federal laws and regulations. While we have developed and implemented a corporate compliance program based upon what we believe are the relevant current best practices, we cannot guarantee that this program will protect us from future lawsuits or investigations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions. If we are unable to adequately protect our technology or enforce our patent rights, our business could suffer. Our success with proprietary products that we develop will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for these products. We currently have a number of United States and foreign patents issued and pending, however, we primarily rely on patent rights licensed from others. These patents generally give us the right and/or obligation to maintain and enforce the subject patents. We cannot be sure that we will receive patents for any of our pending patent applications or any patent applications we may file in the future. If our pending and future patent applications are not approved or, if approved, if such patents and the patents we have licensed are not upheld in a court of law, our ability to competitively exploit our proprietary products would be substantially harmed. Also, such patents may or may not provide competitive advantages for their respective products or they may be challenged or circumvented by our competitors, in which case our ability to commercially exploit these products may be diminished. We also rely on trade secret protection and contractual protections for our unpatented, confidential and proprietary technology. Trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we enter into proprietary information agreements with our employees, consultants and others, these agreements may not successfully protect our trade secrets or other confidential and proprietary information. It is possible that these agreements will be breached, or that they will not be enforceable in every instance, and that we will not have adequate remedies for any such breach. It is also possible that our trade secrets will become known or independently developed by our competitors. 37 Table of Contents If we are unable to adequately protect our technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how, or enforce our patents, our business, financial condition and prospects could suffer. Intellectual property rights are complex and uncertain and therefore may subject us to infringement claims. The patent positions related to our proprietary and generic drug candidates are inherently uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. Although we are not aware of any infringement by any of our drug candidates on the rights of any third party, there may be third party patents or other intellectual property rights relevant to our drug candidates of which we are not aware. Third parties may assert patent or other intellectual property infringement claims against us with respect to our proprietary drug candidates or our generic drug products. This could draw us into costly litigation as well as result in the loss of our use of the intellectual property that is critical to our business strategy. Intellectual property litigation is increasingly common and increasingly expensive and may result in restrictions on our business and substantial costs, even if we prevail. Patent and other intellectual property litigation is becoming more common in the pharmaceutical industry. Litigation is sometimes necessary to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce our patent rights, including those we have licensed from others, to protect trade secrets or to determine the scope and validity of proprietary rights of third parties. Currently no third party is asserting that we are infringing upon their patent rights or other intellectual property, nor are we aware or believe that we are infringing upon any third party’s patent rights or other intellectual property. We may, however, be infringing upon a third party’s patent rights or other intellectual property, and litigation asserting such claims might be initiated in which we would not prevail, or we would not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on reasonable terms, if at all. All such litigation, whether meritorious or not, as well as litigation initiated by us against third parties, is time-consuming and very expensive to defend or prosecute and to resolve. In addition, if we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could lose our right to develop, manufacture or sell our products or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or a failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, which could harm our business, financial condition and prospects. If our competitors prepare and file patent applications in the United States that claim technology we also claim, we may have to participate in interference proceedings required by the USPTO to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial costs, even if we ultimately prevail. Results of interference proceedings are highly unpredictable and may result in us having to try to obtain licenses in order to continue to develop or market certain of our drug candidates. We may be subject to product liability claims, and may not have sufficient product liability insurance to cover any such claims, which may expose us to substantial liabilities. We may be exposed to product liability claims from patients who participate in our clinical trials or from consumers of our products. Although we currently carry product liability insurance in the amount of at least $10 million in the aggregate, it is possible that this coverage will be insufficient to protect us from future claims. Further, we may not be able to maintain our existing insurance or obtain or maintain additional insurance on acceptable terms for our clinical and commercial activities or that such additional insurance would be sufficient to cover any potential product liability claim or recall. Failure to maintain sufficient insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and results of operations if claims are made that exceed our coverage. 38 Table of Contents The use of hazardous materials in our research and development efforts imposes certain compliance costs on us and may subject us to liability for claims arising from the use or misuse of these materials. Our research and development efforts have involved and currently involve the use of hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the storage, use and disposal of these materials and some waste products. We believe that our safety procedures for the storage, use and disposal of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state and local regulations. However, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. If there were to be an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, which could exceed our financial resources. We currently maintain insurance coverage for injuries resulting from the hazardous materials we use, and for pollution clean up and removal; however, future claims may exceed the amount of our coverage. Currently the costs of complying with federal, state and local regulations are not significant, and consist primarily of waste disposal expenses. Risks Related to Our Stock There are a substantial number of shares of our common stock eligible for future sale in the public market. The sale of these shares could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. Any future equity issuances by us may have dilutive and other effects on our existing stockholders. As of March 9, 2007, there were approximately 25.3 million shares of our common stock outstanding, and in addition, security holders held restricted stock, options, warrants and preferred stock which, if vested, exercised or converted, would obligate us to issue up to approximately 15 million additional shares of common stock. However, we would receive over $80 million from the issuance of shares of common stock upon the exercise of all of the option and warrants. A substantial number of those shares, when we issue them upon vesting, conversion or exercise, will be available for immediate resale in the public market. In addition, we have on file a shelf registration statement that allows us to sell up to $100 million of our securities in which approximately $31 million remains available for issuance, some or all of which may be shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of our common stock, and all of which would be available for resale in the market. If we were to sell the remaining $31 million available under the registration statement as common stock at a price approximately equal to the current market price of our common stock, we would issue approximately 5 million new shares of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could fall as a result of resales of any of these shares of common stock due to the increased number of shares available for sale in the market. We have financed our operations, and we anticipate that we will have to finance a large portion of our operating cash requirements, primarily by issuing and selling our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of our common stock. Any issuances by us of equity securities may be at or below the prevailing market price of our common stock and may have a dilutive impact on our existing stockholders. These issuances would also cause our net income, if any, per share to decrease or our loss per share to decrease in future periods. As a result, the market price of our common stock could drop. The market price and volume of our common stock fluctuate significantly and could result in substantial losses for individual investors. The stock market from time to time experiences significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price and volume of our common stock to decrease. In addition, the market price and volume of our common stock is highly volatile. Factors that may cause the market price and volume of our common stock to decrease include fluctuations in our results of operations, timing and announcements of our bio-technological innovations or new products or those of our competitors, FDA and foreign regulatory actions, developments with respect to patents and proprietary rights, public concern as to the safety of products developed by us or others, changes in health care policy in the United States and in foreign countries, changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock, the pharmaceutical industry generally and general market conditions. In addition, the market price and volume of our common stock may decrease if our results of operations fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. Also, certain dilutive securities such as warrants can be used as hedging tools which may increase volatility in our stock and cause a price decline. While a decrease in market price could result in direct economic loss for an individual investor, low trading volume could limit an individual investor’s ability to sell our common stock, which could result in substantial economic loss as well. During 2006, the price of our common stock ranged between $3.36 and $6.20, and the daily trading volume was as high as 6,624,100 shares and as low as 24,300 shares. During 2007 through March 9, 2007, the price of our common stock has ranged between $5.27 and $7.11, and the daily trading volume has been as high as 1,167,200 shares and as low as 66,000 shares. 39 Table of Contents Provisions of our charter, bylaws and stockholder rights plan may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us or replace current management even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, which may lower the price an acquirer or investor would pay for our stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, both as amended, may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us or replace our current management. These provisions include: • the ability of our board of directors to amend our bylaws without stockholder approval; • the inability of stockholders to call special meetings; • the ability of members of the board of directors to fill vacancies on the board of directors; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent, unless such consent is unanimous; • the establishment of advance notice requirements for nomination for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. These provisions may make it more difficult for stockholders to take certain corporate actions and could delay, discourage or prevent someone from acquiring our business or replacing our current management, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock. We have a stockholder rights plan pursuant to which we distributed rights to purchase units of our series B junior participating preferred stock. The rights become exercisable upon the earlier of ten days after a person or group of affiliated or associated persons has acquired 15% or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock or ten business days after a tender offer has commenced that would result in a person or group beneficially owning 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. These rights could delay or discourage someone from acquiring our business, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. We currently have no stockholders who own 15% or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the near future. Our current policy is to retain all funds and any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 