Item 1A Risk Factors 30 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 48 Item 2 Properties 48 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 48 Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 48 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 49 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 51 Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 52 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 71 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 73 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 113 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 113 Item 9B Other Information 114 2 Table of Contents Page PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 114 Item 11 Executive Compensation 114 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 114 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 114 Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services 114 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 115 Signatures 117 Index to Exhibits 119 3 Table of Contents This Annual Report on Form 10-K ("Report"), including the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act") and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "targets," "goals," "projects," "intends," "plans," "believes," "estimates," "seeks," "continues," "may," variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified below under "Risk Factors," and elsewhere herein. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason. PART I Item 1. Business General Tetra Tech, Inc. is a leading provider of consulting, engineering, program management, construction management, construction and technical services that focuses on addressing fundamental needs for water, the environment, energy, infrastructure and natural resources. We are a full-service company that leads with science. We typically begin at the earliest stage of a project by identifying technical solutions to problems and developing execution plans tailored to our clients' needs and resources. Our solutions may span the entire life cycle of consulting and engineering projects and include applied science, research and technology, engineering, design, construction management, construction, operations and maintenance, and information technology. We are a global provider of consulting and engineering services, renowned for our leadership in water-related services for public and private clients. Engineering News-Record ("ENR"), the leading trade journal for our industry, has ranked us the number one water services firm for the past nine years, most recently in its April 19, 2012, "Top 500 Design Firms" issue. In 2012, Tetra Tech was also ranked number one in water transmission lines and aqueducts, environmental management, and wind power. ENR also ranks Tetra Tech among the top 10 firms in numerous other service lines, including environmental science, engineering/design, sanitary/storm sewers, solid waste, chemical and soil remediation, site assessment and compliance, hazardous waste, industrial processes, and manufacturing. Our commitment to continuous improvement and investment in growth has diversified our client base, expanded our geographic reach, and increased the breadth and depth of our service offerings to address existing and emerging markets. We currently have more than 13,000 employees worldwide, located primarily in North America. Mission Our mission is to be the premier worldwide consulting and engineering firm, focusing on water, natural resources, the environment, infrastructure and energy. The following core principles form the underpinning of how we work together to serve our clients: •Service. We put our clients first. We listen closely to better understand our clients' needs and deliver smart, cost-effective solutions that meet their needs. 4 Table of Contents •Value. We take on our clients' problems as if they were our own. We develop and implement real-world solutions that are innovative, efficient and practical. •Excellence. We bring superior technical capability, disciplined project management, and excellence in safety and quality to all of our services. •Opportunity. Our people are our number one asset. Our workforce is diverse and includes leading experts in our fields. Our entrepreneurial nature and commitment to success provide challenges and opportunities for our employees. Industry Overview We are part of the global consulting and engineering industry that serves public and private clients by addressing fundamental needs for water, the environment, energy, infrastructure and natural resources. Our industry provides clients with the technical studies, planning, engineering, design, construction management and construction services that respond to their needs. The industry's clients vary in size and scope from small local public agencies and private companies to national governments and large multi-national corporations. These clients seek service firms with high-caliber technical expertise, practical experience, multi-disciplinary capabilities and the global reach needed to analyze their problems in order to develop and implement the most appropriate, cost-effective solutions. Many government and commercial organizations face complex challenges due to increased demand and competition for water and natural resources, newly understood threats to human health and the environment, aging infrastructure, demand for new infrastructure in emerging economies, and diversification and development of energy resources. As a global company with a local presence in many areas around the world, we provide the breadth of technical knowledge and capabilities to solve our clients' diverse and challenging problems. Our water market supports government agencies responsible for managing water supply, wastewater treatment, stormwater and flood protection. Our water market also supports private sector clients that require water supply and treatment for industrial processes. We help our clients develop water supplies and manage water resources, while addressing a wide range of local and national government requirements and policies. We provide essential support for water and site management needs for resource extraction in the mining and oil and gas industries. Our water and environmental markets also include both government and commercial clients that are working to restore contaminated areas and protect uncontaminated areas. Our energy market consists of both government and commercial clients that seek to develop renewable energy resources, identify energy efficiency enhancements, and improve energy transmission. Our infrastructure market includes the design of public and commercial buildings and facilities, including high efficiency, low energy use buildings. Our natural resources market provides support for the safe, sustainable extraction of necessary mineral resources and oil and gas, including the wide range of required services to meet water, environment, energy and infrastructure-related needs, sometimes in remote regions of the world. Increasingly, the consulting and engineering industry is being asked to provide integrated solutions in a global marketplace. Large firms such as ours can offer fully integrated services, from front-end science and planning through construction management. Large firms that offer integrated solutions differentiate themselves from smaller firms that generally offer niche services by providing turn-key solutions intended to save time and money. As a large company with a history of leading with science, we are ideally suited to providing interdisciplinary solutions across our water and related service lines. As a provider of interdisciplinary services, we have increased our market share in each of the last several years. Public policy, demand for resources, infrastructure development challenges and natural forces constantly shape changes in our industry. Public concern over environmental issues, especially water quality, has been a driving force behind numerous regulations and changes in public policies and practices. 5 Table of Contents Public and private clients are increasingly focused on water management, energy efficiency and sustainability. Fluctuations in weather patterns and extreme events, such as droughts, hurricanes or flooding, are driving concerns over the reliability of water supplies and the need to protect coastal areas and upgrade water infrastructure. Energy policies, resource limitations and concern about climate change have encouraged the implementation of energy conservation measures, retrofits to existing structures, upgrades to energy transmission infrastructure and the development of renewable energy resources. Governments are now using international development as a foreign policy tool to help developing nations to overcome numerous challenges, including challenges related to water accessibility and human health. The Tetra Tech Strategy To continue our successful growth and maintain a competitive position, we have implemented the following strategy that is integral to our future success: Start with Science. We typically start with science at the onset of a project, building on our staff's strong technical and interdisciplinary foundation in natural and physical sciences. This strength allows us to effectively evaluate and recommend potential solutions to our clients' problems. We can support our clients through the entire project life cycle by providing consulting, engineering, construction management, operations and maintenance, and information technology services. We offer these services individually or as part of our full-service approach. Capitalize on our Extensive Technical and Multi-Disciplinary Experience. Since our inception, we have provided innovative consulting and engineering services, focusing on cost-effective solutions to all aspects of water resource management. We have been successful in leveraging this foundation of scientific and engineering capabilities into other market areas, including sustainable infrastructure and building design. Our services are provided by a wide range of professionals, including archaeologists, architects, biologists, chemical engineers, chemists, civil engineers, computer scientists, economists, electrical engineers, environmental engineers, environmental scientists, geologists, hydrogeologists, mechanical engineers, oceanographers, project managers and toxicologists. Because of the experience that we have gained from thousands of completed projects, we have relevant expertise to draw from, and are often able to adapt and apply proven solutions to our clients' problems. Global Coverage and Local Delivery. We believe that proximity to our clients is instrumental to understanding their needs and delivering comprehensive services. We have significantly broadened our geographic presence in recent years through strategic acquisitions and internal growth. We currently have North American operations throughout the United States and Canada. We have also increased our international presence with regional offices in Australia, Europe, Asia, South America, Africa and the Middle East. Our base of operations in North America and network of international offices provide a platform from which we can respond to the global need for essential water and energy services, foster economic development, and provide access to basic services. Over the past year, we worked in 135 countries, helping federal and local government agencies, the private sector and development assistance entities address complex water, infrastructure and energy challenges in an environmentally responsible manner. Leverage Existing Client Base. We believe that we can effectively expand our service offerings to existing clients, resulting in more comprehensive and interdisciplinary projects. We have regularly been able to secure design and program management contracts after having served clients on the scientific evaluation and engineering phases of a project. By expanding our role with existing clients, we can address larger problems and provide integrated solutions. For our global clients, we also focus on expanding from localized geographic areas to provide broader national and international support in multiple locations. Identify and Expand into New Business Areas. We use our consulting services and specialized technical services as entry points to evaluate adjacent business areas. After our consulting practice is 6 Table of Contents established in a new business area, we can expand our operations by offering additional technical services. For example, based on our work in watershed management consulting, we identify adjacent opportunities and expand into water infrastructure and engineering services. Focus on Large, Complex and Interdisciplinary Projects. We continue to focus on expanding our public and private sector services and bidding for complex projects that are at the leading edge of policy and technology development. We develop integrated, sustainable solutions by combining our interdisciplinary capabilities in water, the environment, energy, infrastructure and natural resources. Our combination of technical expertise with practical applications provides challenging and rewarding opportunities for our employees, thereby enhancing our ability to recruit and retain top quality talent. Focus on Cash Generation. We take a disciplined approach to monitoring, managing and improving our return on investment in each of our business areas through our efforts to negotiate appropriate contract terms, manage our contract performance to minimize schedule delays and cost overruns, and promptly bill and collect accounts receivable. Actively Attract, Recruit and Retain Strategic Hires. We focus on attracting and retaining top-quality individuals who provide technical skills, innovative thinking, teamwork and dedication to maintaining long-term client relationships. Our full-service capabilities, internal coordination and networking programs, entrepreneurial environment, focus on technical excellence and global project portfolio help to attract and retain highly qualified individuals who support our long-term growth. Develop and Maintain Strategic Partnerships with Small Business Companies and Communities. In working with suppliers, we are committed to being an excellent partner and mentor, consistent with our desire to lead with science and develop approaches to best serve our global clients. When combined with our considerable capabilities and expertise, value-added partnerships with external companies and suppliers can enhance the services we provide to our clients. We have established a Small Business and Partnerships Council to identify and promote the most successful partnerships and to coordinate best practices across our company. Invest in Strategic Acquisitions. We believe that strategic acquisitions will allow us to continue our growth in selected business areas, broaden our service offerings and extend our geographic presence. We intend to continue to acquire companies that will help establish our position in certain emerging business areas or further strengthen our position in our more established businesses. Our effective integration of acquired companies can continue to enhance our ability to compete technically and geographically. Reportable Segments In fiscal 2012, we managed our business under four reportable segments. The following table presents the percentage of our revenue by reportable segment: Fiscal Year Reportable Segment 2012 2011 2010 Engineering and Consulting Services 38.2% 36.1% 24.4% Technical Support Services 33.9 33.7 37.6 Engineering and Architecture Services 11.8 12.0 13.4 Remediation and Construction Management 22.9 23.5 29.6 Inter-segment elimination (6.8) (5.3) (5.0) 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% In the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we implemented organizational changes that resulted in a realignment of certain operating activities in our reportable segments. This realignment resulted from the 7 Table of Contents organic growth of new activities in a component of an existing reportable segment due to changing business conditions. The changes were intended to improve organizational effectiveness and efficiency by better aligning operations with similar characteristics such as client types, project types, required resources and financial metrics. Prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, we initiated a reorganization of our operations, including the consolidation and realignment of certain operating activities to achieve efficiencies in our segment management. This reorganization included the elimination of the Engineering and Architecture Services reportable segment, and the re-assignment of its operations to the Engineering and Consulting Services and Technical Support Services segments, effective at the beginning of fiscal 2013. For additional information regarding our reorganization and our reportable segments, see Note 17, "Reportable Segments" of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" included in Item 8. For more information on risks related to our business, segments and geographic regions, including risks related to foreign operations, please refer to Item 1A, "Risk Factors" of this report. Engineering and Consulting Services ("ECS") ECS provides front-end science, consulting engineering services and project management in the areas of surface water management, solid waste management, mining, geotechnical sciences, arctic engineering, industrial processes and oil sands, and information technology. Surface Water Management. Public concern with the quality of rivers, lakes, streams, and coastal and marine waters, and the ensuing legislative and regulatory response, is driving demand for our services. More recently, two important factors have raised the visibility of the need for surface water management: competition for water resources and climate variations, such as those that cause droughts and floods. Over the past 40 years, we have developed a specialized set of technical skills that position us to compete effectively for surface water and watershed management projects. We provide water resource services to U.S. federal and Canadian provincial government clients such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"), the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), the U.S. Department of Energy ("DOE") and the Alberta Ministry of Environment. We also provide these services to a broad base of commercial clients, including those in the aerospace, chemical, alternative energy, mining, petroleum, pharmaceutical, retail and utility industries. Further, we provide surface water modeling services to municipal government agencies in the United States and Canada, particularly in the areas of watershed management, climate adaptation analysis, flood control, and the optimal management of stormwater and combined sewer overflow systems. Solid Waste Management. We provide a wide range of engineering and consulting services for solid waste management, including landfill design and management. We also provide full-service solutions for gas-to-energy facilities utilizing landfill methane gas. These services are performed throughout the United States and Canada. Mining. We offer a full range of services for mining projects worldwide, including resource assessment, mine development, operations support, and closure/remediation. Our full-service mining services team includes geologists, metallurgists, mine engineers, environmental scientists and water specialists. We address tough challenges in engineering design, procurement and construction to support all areas of mine operations, including underground and open pit operations, surface infrastructure, mills and process plants, power generation and transmission projects, water treatment, tailings management and regulatory compliance. Geotechnical Services. Our geotechnical practice includes geotechnical engineers, soils technicians and drillers who investigate, analyze and develop geotechnical engineering recommendations for all types of soil and rock conditions. We have specialized capabilities to evaluate, monitor and design foundations 8 Table of Contents and materials for roads, bridges, levees, flood walls and buildings located in extremely poor soil conditions, including conditions common to coastal regions. Arctic Engineering. We provide consulting and construction services to owners of transportation, mining, energy and community infrastructure in the circumpolar region, which includes the Arctic and areas of permafrost around the globe. In this extreme environment where temperatures can drop below -50 °C (-58 °F), we provide adaptive engineering and scientific services that reach beyond traditional approaches. We are one of the few firms that are capable of providing full life cycle services for northern development. We offer these arctic engineering services during all project phases: exploration and project planning; feasibility studies, design and permitting; engineering, procurement and construction management ("EPCM"), and construction; and operation, decommissioning and reclamation. Industrial Processes and Oil Sands. We offer plant engineering services for clients in heavy industry, including mining and metals, and oil sands, and for those in the chemical and petrochemical industries. We have supported the industrial processes needs of clients with expertise in the production of base metals such as copper, zinc, magnesium, lead, iron ore, and their byproducts. We help renovate, upgrade and modernize industrial facilities, including concentrators, smelters and refineries. We provide significant services to major clients in the oil sands region of northern Alberta, Canada, including the management of tailings treatment and recovery. We also provide plant engineering, project execution, program management and full EPCM services for industrial process projects throughout North America. Information Technology. We provide technology systems integration to support data management, data processing, communications and outreach, and systems development. Our projects range from large-scale environmental monitoring, modeling and data management to systems engineering and design for major infrastructure rehabilitation programs. We provide systems analysis and information management to optimize the U.S. National Airspace System and related aviation systems. We also support research and technical services for national-scale water resource and environmental data management, including archiving and statistical analysis. Technical Support Services ("TSS") TSS advises clients through the study, design and implementation phases of projects. TSS provides management consulting services and strategic direction in the areas of environmental assessments/hazardous waste management; climate change; international development; international reconstruction and stabilization; energy; oil and gas; and technical government consulting. Environmental Assessments/Hazardous Waste Management. We provide comprehensive services for environmental planning, cleanup and reuse of sites contaminated with hazardous materials, toxic chemicals, and oil and petroleum products. Our services cover all phases of the remedial planning process, starting with emergency response and initial site assessment through removal actions and remedial design and implementation management. Sites range from small properties undergoing voluntary cleanup, to brownfields redevelopment projects, to DoD installations, to some of the largest and most complex Superfund sites in the United States. We support both commercial and government clients in planning and implementing remedial activities at numerous sites around the world. We also provide a broad range of environmental analysis and planning services to ensure that our clients are implementing their operations in a sustainable manner. Our services include air quality management, regulatory compliance, information management and geographic information systems, radiation protection and health physics, risk management, pollution prevention and control, radioactive and hazardous waste management, National Environmental Policy Act ("NEPA") services and environmental response training. Climate Change. In a resource-constrained world, our experts assist clients in identifying, reducing and strategically managing their environmental footprint to provide cost savings, mitigate regulatory impacts, institute operational efficiencies, develop new business opportunities and promote corporate 9 Table of Contents responsibility. Our services support our clients' efforts to become sustainable by "greening" energy supplies, implementing energy efficiency and resource conservation, using alternative fuels, capturing and sequestering carbon, improving land and forest resource management, and purchasing carbon offsets. We have demonstrated that clients can concurrently reduce their carbon emissions and environmental impacts while saving money. Our services include climate change and strategic management consulting, project implementation, and greenhouse gas inventory assessment, certification, reduction and management. International Development. We provide services to many donor agencies such as the U.S. Agency for International Development ("USAID"), the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank and the United Kingdom Department for International Development to develop safe and reliable water supplies and sanitation services, support the eradication of poverty, improve livelihoods, promote democracy and increase economic growth. We plan, design, implement, research and monitor projects in the broad areas of climate change, agriculture and rural development, governance and institutional development, natural resources and the environment, infrastructure, economic growth, energy, rule of law and justice systems, land tenure and property rights, and training and consulting for public-private partnerships. We build capacity and strengthen institutions in areas such as global health, energy sector reform, utility management, food security and local governance. We currently provide international development services in numerous countries around the world, working for the U.S. Department of State ("DoS"), USAID, the Millennium Challenge Corporation ("MCC") and the DoD. International Reconstruction and Stabilization. We provide integral support to the DoS and USAID in reconstruction and stabilization worldwide, including the design, development, implementation and evaluation of these efforts. We also help develop training programs and curricula for "whole of government" reconstruction and stabilization training offered through the Foreign Service Institute. We helped develop the Interagency Conflict Assessment Framework, the tool now used by the U.S. government to assess and develop solutions in conflict-prone environments. Our experts have worked on these issues in such countries as the Republic of Georgia, South Sudan, Kosovo, Haiti, Bangladesh, Nepal and the Democratic Republic of Congo. We support the DoS by providing subject matter experts in areas such as energy, criminal justice and drug interdiction. Energy. We provide a full range of services to electric power utilities and independent power producers worldwide, ranging from macro-level planning, management and advisory services to project-specific environmental, engineering and construction services. For utilities and governmental agencies regulating power, we provide policy and regulatory development, utility management and privatization, power asset evaluation and management, and transaction support services. For energy developers and owners of renewable and conventional power generation facilities, as well as transmission and distribution assets, we provide environmental, engineering, procurement, and operations and maintenance services for all project phases. Our projects range from onshore and offshore wind facilities and solar farms to liquefied natural gas facilities. Oil and Gas. We support oil and gas clients in the upstream, midstream and downstream market sectors. Our services include environmental support, siting studies, strategic planning and analyses, design of well pads and surface impoundments for drilling sites, water management for exploration activities, design of midstream pipelines and associated pumping stations and storage facilities, construction monitoring, biological and cultural assessments, site investigations and hazardous waste site remediation. Technical Government Consulting. We provide a broad spectrum of professional and technical services, including advisory and assistance services, to supplement and support the internal staff of our U.S. federal government clients. Our service offerings include facility planning and operational support, infrastructure development and management, human resource management, program and logistics management, engineering, test and evaluation, information technology, and administrative support. We provide senior advisors and subject matter experts to a diverse array of clients including the DoS, U.S. National Guard Bureaus, the Missile Defense Agency and the MCC in such areas as political-military affairs, public diplomacy and strategic communication, strategic planning, and measurement and evaluation. 10 Table of Contents Engineering and Architecture Services ("EAS") EAS provides engineering and architecture design services, together with technical and program administration services for projects related to water infrastructure, transportation, and buildings and facilities. Beginning in fiscal 2013, the EAS operations were re-assigned to the ECS and TSS business segments. The water and transportation infrastructure services were aligned with related services in ECS, and the buildings and facilities activities were aligned with complementary energy efficiency and international development services in TSS. Water Infrastructure. Our design and technical services are applied to numerous aspects of water quality and quantity management, including major water and wastewater treatment plants, combined sewer storage and separation, and drainage and flood control. Our experience includes planning, permitting, design and construction management services for water treatment facilities, desalination facilities and water distribution systems, including pipelines and pump stations. We also support planning, permitting, design and construction of water-related redevelopment projects, and parks and river corridor restoration projects. Transportation. We provide engineering, architecture, construction management and technical services for transportation projects that improve public safety and mobility. Our transportation projects include roadway improvements, commuter railway stations, airport expansions, bridges and major highways. We provide design solutions to repair, replace and upgrade older transportation infrastructure. Buildings and Facilities. We provide planning, architectural and engineering services for U.S. federal, state and local government and commercial facilities including military housing, educational, institutional, corporate headquarters, healthcare and research facilities. We specialize in designing high-performance, sustainable facilities that minimize environmental impacts, typically by minimizing water and power usage. Many of these green buildings include integrated interior systems for heat, light, security and communications, and may ultimately achieve Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification. Our projects include high-rise office buildings, museums, hotels, parks, visitor centers, marinas, and entertainment and leisure facilities. We have provided civil, electrical, mechanical, structural, plumbing and fire protection engineering and design services for high-profile buildings around the world. We have completed engineering and construction management projects for a wide range of clients with specialized needs such as security systems, training and audiovisual facilities, clean rooms, laboratories, medical facilities and emergency preparedness facilities. Remediation and Construction Management ("RCM") RCM provides full-service support to all of our client sectors including the U.S. federal government, in the U.S. and internationally, and commercial clients worldwide. We provide construction and construction management services in the areas of environmental remediation, infrastructure development, energy, and oil and gas. Environmental Remediation. We provide environmental remediation and reconstruction services to evaluate and restore lands to beneficial use. Under the U.S. federal government's Base Realignment and Closure ("BRAC") Act, we help remediate and restore facilities at military locations in the United States and around the world. We also manage large, complex sediment remediation programs that help restore rivers and coastal waters to beneficial use. Environmental remediation also includes activities to identify, evaluate and destroy unexploded ordinance (UXO), both domestically and internationally. Infrastructure Development. We provide program management, construction management, and development services for large scale water management infrastructure, including flood protection structures, water conveyance and treatment facilities, and hydroelectric power projects. For the mining industry we build processing plants, facilities, and supporting infrastructure. We also build energy-efficient buildings and support our clients in developing transportation-related structures, including roads, bridges, 11 Table of Contents aviation/runways, and ports and harbor facilities. We provide environmental, engineering, procurement, construction, and operations and maintenance services for all project phases. Energy. We provide full range of services for alternative and conventional energy development. For wind, solar and hydroelectric power development and upgrade projects, we provide environmental, engineering, procurement, construction, and operations and maintenance services for all project phases. We provide construction management, construction and electrical services to bring projects to completion. We provide retrofit, rehabilitation and renovation to aging conventional power plants, as well as decontamination and decommissioning. We also provide full-range services for other energy technologies including hydropower, geothermal, nuclear and biogeneration technologies. Oil and Gas. We provide safe, reliable services from initial site conception, preparation and permitting to engineering, construction and start-up. We support the upstream, midstream and downstream components of the oil and gas industry including project controls, estimating, constructability, engineering, procurement, construction, construction management, equipment and material management. Project Examples The following table presents brief examples of projects in our four segments during fiscal 2012: Segment Representative Projects ECS • Assisting the EPA Office of Wastewater Management in conducting the Clean Water Needs Survey to assess financial needs for constructing wastewater treatment plants and other water-related infrastructure. • Providing watershed planning and modeling services for Los Angeles County to address water quality and optimize stormwater management program needs. • Providing full-service support to Cameco Corporation, such as due diligence, feasibility studies, environmental assessment and permitting, and EPCM, including design delivery and support for all phases of global uranium mine operations. • Providing EPCM services to BHP Billiton for the Nickel West Mine in Australia, one of the world's largest nickel producing mines, to support modernization of the supporting mine infrastructure. • Providing mine planning services to Nevada Copper's Pumpkin Hollow Mine, one of the largest U.S. copper mines, including development of the complete mine plan from start up through construction, operations and closure. • Providing engineering design services to Shell Canada for sustaining capital improvements and management of tailings waters at one of the world's largest oil sands mining operations in northern Alberta, Canada. 12 Table of Contents Segment Representative Projects • Providing full-service engineering design support to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers ("USACE") for the Inner Harbor Navigation Canal Lake Borgne hurricane surge barrier in New Orleans, the longest open water hurricane barrier in the world. • Providing a new combined sewer overflow (CSO) control strategy that uses real time control (RTC) to reduce overflows, maximize use of retention in the system and improve operational efficiency, in the City of Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. • Optimizing the water distribution network for the city of Montreal, Quebec. Performing design and modeling for a hydraulic system that handles more than two million cubic meters of drinking water per day. Overseeing implementation of the water distribution supervision and optimization system to help establish a modern and efficient water management system and network controls. TSS • Providing technical, analytical and programmatic support under the EPA's Brownfields and Land Revitalization Program to promote the assessment, cleanup and revitalization of properties affected by the presence or potential presence of hazardous substances, pollutants and other contaminants. • Providing support to EPA's Climate Change Division to reduce emissions of methane, a potent greenhouse gas and potential source of clean energy. Supporting EPA's Natural Gas STAR, a voluntary partnership program that encourages oil and natural gas companies to adopt cost-effective technologies and practices that improve operational efficiency and reduce methane emissions, and AgStar, which aims to reduce emissions from livestock and agro-industrial wastes by promoting the use of anaerobic digestion systems and biogas recovery. • Working with USAID to implement innovative approaches to strengthen property rights and resource tenure as methods of advancing U.S. government strategic foreign affairs objectives by enhancing food security and economic growth, resource governance, strengthened property rights for women and vulnerable groups, climate change adaptation, and conflict prevention. 13 Table of Contents Segment Representative Projects • Helping USAID implement multiple international development programs in Afghanistan, including the Sustainable Water Supply and Sanitation contract; the Rule of Law Stabilization Program – Formal component; the Kabul City Initiative; and the Land Reform in Afghanistan program. • Providing program management, integration and technical services to the U.S. Army Chemical Materials Agency ("CMA") to support the efficient destruction of chemical warfare and related materiel. Helping CMA manage its non-stockpile chemical materiel program and to comply with international chemical weapons conventions and move towards ultimate closure of chemical agent disposal facilities and stockpile storage areas. • Providing specialty marine impact studies, permitting services, biological and cultural resources surveys, design and construction support for Garden State Offshore Energy, LLC, a major offshore wind developer. Providing similar environmental services to multiple utilities across North America, such as Idaho Power, for energy transmission line routing. • Providing engineering, detailed design and construction monitoring for multiple oil and gas midstream pipeline companies such as Enbridge Inc., Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P. and Plains All American Pipeline, L.P. • Supporting environmental activities at U.S. Air Force ("USAF"), U.S. Army, and U.S. Navy ("USN") installations worldwide to assist the DoD in its environmental mission in the areas of environmental conservation and planning, environmental quality, environmental restoration, design and construction. EAS • Providing architectural and engineering design services for numerous U.S. government facilities, including military housing and overhead protection systems. • Providing design, construction management and design-build services to the U.S. General Services Administration ("GSA"), for infrastructure projects including border stations and other facilities. • Providing mechanical, electrical, plumbing and fire protection engineering design services for buildings, including major corporate headquarters buildings, healthcare facilities, research laboratories, cultural arts facilities and universities. • Providing design, construction management and design-build services for the City of Augusta, Georgia, for various infrastructure projects, including pipelines, lift stations, storage tanks, buildings, treatment facilities and all associated electrical, instrumentation and control. 14 Table of Contents Segment Representative Projects • Providing studies, design services and construction administration and observation for roads and bridges, along with other traffic-related services for local municipalities and various Departments of Transportation ("DOTs") across the United States. • Providing architectural and engineering design services for K-12 educational facilities throughout New York. RCM • Completing program management services for environmental restoration of the Rocky Mountain Arsenal, a former chemical weapons manufacturing plant. • Providing engineering, project management and construction management to help construct facilities and infrastructure in Afghanistan for the USAF and the USACE. • Providing design-build services for energy-efficient facilities and environmental restoration services at various DoD BRAC sites, such as the Hunters Point Naval Shipyard and former Naval Air Station Alameda, both located on the San Francisco Bay, California. • Providing turn-key solutions for utilities and commercial energy developers, including environmental studies, permitting, engineering, design, construction, and operations and maintenance services for wind farms and solar facilities throughout the United States. • Providing turn-key design, construction, dredging and treatment services for the Lower Fox River remediation and clean-up. • Providing design-build and construction management services for energy efficient facilities particularly for the military, such as the Transient Wounded Warrior Lodge and Parking Structure at the Walter Reed National Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland and the North America Treaty Organization Supreme Allied Commander Transformation Headquarters in Norfolk, Virginia. • Improving the aging infrastructure in the United States through rehabilitation and construction of highways, overpasses and bridges. • Assisting Verizon and AT&T with the deployment and maintenance of high capacity broadband fiber optic networks in the western and midwestern United States. • Providing construction services to large mining clients in support of capital projects and maintenance. 15 Table of Contents Clients We provide services to a diverse base of international, U.S. commercial, U.S. federal and U.S. state and local government clients. The following table presents the percentage of our revenue by client sector: Fiscal Year Client Sector 2012 2011 2010 International(1) 24.5% 23.2% 9.5% U.S. commercial 26.5 22.4 23.8 U.S. federal government(2) 37.2 43.4 51.9 U.S. state and local government 11.8 11.0 14.8 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% (1)Includes revenue generated from our foreign operations, primarily in Canada, and revenue generated from non-U.S. clients. (2)Includes revenue generated under U.S. government contracts performed outside the United States. U.S. federal government agencies are significant clients of ours. The DoD accounted for 14.4%, 20.4% and 28.6% of our revenue in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We typically support multiple programs within a single U.S. federal government agency, both domestically and internationally. We also assist U.S. state and local government clients in a variety of jurisdictions across the United States. Our commercial clients include companies in the chemical, energy, mining, pharmaceutical, retail, aerospace, automotive, petroleum and communications industries. No single client, except for U.S. federal government clients, accounted for more than 10% of our revenue in fiscal 2012. The following table presents a list of representative clients in fiscal 2012 in our reportable segments. Representative Clients Reportable Segment U.S. Federal Government U.S. State and Local Governments U.S. Commercial International ECS DoD; DOE; EPA; Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA"); International Boundary and Water Commission ("IBWC"); National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration ("NOAA"); USACE; USAF; USAID; U.S. Bureau of Reclamation; U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management; U.S. Forest Service ("USFS"); GSA; USN California Department of Water Resources; Cities of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and San Diego, California; Counties of Los Angeles, Orange and Ventura, California; Fairfax County, Virginia; Louisiana Office of Coastal Protection and Restoration; Plaquemines Parish Government, Louisiana; Port of Los Angeles, California; Seattle and Washington State DOTs; State of Wyoming AIG Domestic Claims, Inc.; Barrick Gold Corp.; Carson Marketplace, LLC; ConocoPhillips Co.; Exxon Mobil Corp.; Ford Motor Co.; General Electric Co.; Intrepid Potash-New Mexico, LLC; Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P.; Lockheed Martin Corp.; McClellan Business Park, LLC; Nevada Copper Corp.; Newmont Mining Corp.; Shell Canada Limited; Southern California Gas Co.; Suncor Energy, Inc.; Waste Management, Inc. BHP Billiton; Cameco Corp.; Panama Canal Authority; Chevron Corp.; City of Calgary, Alberta; City of Paris, France; City of Toronto, Ontario; City of Winnipeg, Manitoba; Hydro One Incorporated.; Hydro-Quebec; Ontario Power Generation, Inc.; The Mosaic Co.; Terrane Metals Corp.; Winnipeg Airports Authority, Inc.; Yukon Zinc Corporation 16 Table of Contents Representative Clients Reportable Segment U.S. Federal Government U.S. State and Local Governments U.S. Commercial International TSS DOE; DoS; Department of Homeland Security; National Aeronautics and Space Administration; National Guard Bureaus; National Nuclear Security Administration; NOAA; U.S. Transportation Security Administration; USAF; USACE; USAID; U.S. Coast Guard ("USCG"); EPA; U.S. Missile Defense Agency; USN Cities of Chicago, Illinois, Kansas City, Missouri and Los Angeles, California; Ports of Los Angeles and San Diego, California; States of California, Massachusetts, Missouri, Montana, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin; University of California, Berkeley ACCIONA North America; Alcoa Inc.; Bechtel Power Corp.; Carson Marketplace, LLC; Chartis, Inc.; ConocoPhillips Co.; D.R. Horton, Inc.; El Paso Corp.; Enbridge Inc.; Exxon Mobil Corp.; Ford Motor Co.; General Electric Co.; Idaho Power; Lend Lease Americask, Inc.; Lockheed Martin Corp.; McClellan Business Park, LLC; NextEra Energy Resources, LLC; Portland General Electric; PPG Industries; Range Resources-Appalachia, LLC; Target Corp.; Texas Energy Group, LLC; W.R. Grace & Co. Agroreserve Russia; Altaaqa; British Virgin Islands Tourism; Dead Sea Development Commission; Electricity Holding Co. of Oman; Gamesa Corporacíon Tecnológica; Hainan Land Property Group; EDP Renewables North America, LLC (formerly Horizon Wind Energy, LLC); Iberdrola S.A.; OPMAC Corporation of Japan; Pan-China Construction Group Co. Ltd; Renewable Energy Systems Ltd.; Ridgeline Energy Services, Inc.; RWE AG (Germany); Saudi ARAMCO (officially the Saudi Arabian Oil Company); Vnesheconombank EAS U.S. Defense Commissary Agency; GSA; MCC; USACE; USAF; USAID; USCG; USFS; U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; USN; U.S. Postal Service Allegheny County Sanitary Authority; Boston Water and Sewer Commission; Brentwood Union Free, Cortland Enlarged City, Minisink Valley Central, William Floyd Union Free and Whitesboro Central School Districts; Cities of Augusta, Georgia, Kansas City, Missouri, Lansing, Michigan, Omaha, Nebraska, Port Huron, Michigan, Toledo, Ohio, San Juan Capistrano, California, and Tulsa, Oklahoma; Huntsville Utilities; Irvine Ranch Water District; King County, Washington; DOTS of Massachusetts, Highway Division, Michigan, Ohio and Oklahoma; Orange County Public Works, California; Orange County Utilities Department, Florida; The Port of Long Beach, California; Tulsa Metropolitan Utility Authority Absher Construction Co.; Alaska Gold Company; AT&T Inc.; Bloom Energy; General Motors Co.; Genzyme Corp.; Goldman Sachs; Kendall/Heaton Associates, Inc.; Kohn Pederson Fox Associates, P.C.; Lafarge; Lockheed Martin Corp.; M. Arthur Gensler Jr. & Associates, Inc.; Parsons Brinckerhoff, Quade & Douglas, Inc.; Pascal & Ludwig Engineers; PCL Construction Services, Inc.; Pioneer Natural Resources Co.; Rafael Vinoly Architects PC; Record Steel and Construction Inc.; Skidmore, Owings and Merrill LLP; The Confederated Tribes of the Colville Reservation; Tutor Perini Corp.; White- Kiewit Joint Venture New Songdo City Development, LLC; Orissa Water Supply & Sewage Board; Societe d'Entreprise & de Gestion; TRO Jung/Brannen, Inc. 17 Table of Contents Representative Clients Reportable Segment U.S. Federal Government U.S. State and Local Governments U.S. Commercial International RCM U.S. Air Force Civil Engineer Center; DoD; The Naval Facilities Engineering Command; USACE; USAID; USCG New Jersey Turnpike Authority; New York State and North Carolina DOTs; New York State Office of General Services; Orlando Utilities Commission ACCIONA North America; Actus Lend Lease; Alcoa, Inc.; AT&T, Inc.; Chevron Corp.; Cogentrix Energy, LLC; Comcast Corp.; Competitive Power Ventures Inc.; EDP Renewables North America (formerly Horizon Wind Energy, LLC); Fire Island Wind LLC; Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.; Idaho Power Co.; CPV Keenan II Renewable Energy Co., LLC; Lower Fox River Remediation LLC; Mountain City Remediation LLC; NextEra Energy Resources, LLC; Noble Constructors, LLC; PacifiCorp; Rockies Express Pipeline LLC; Sheldon Energy LLC; Verizon Communications, Inc. Acciona, S.A.; Cameco Corporation; Eni SpA; Iberdrola, S.A.; Kuwait Oil Co. Contracts Our services are performed under three principal types of contracts with our clients: fixed-price, time-and-materials, and cost-plus. The following table presents the percentage of our revenue by contract type: Fiscal Year Contract Type 2012 2011 2010 Fixed-price 40.2% 40.4% 42.0% Time-and-materials 40.8 38.7 34.0 Cost-plus 19.0 20.9 24.0 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Our clients select the type of contract we enter into for a particular engagement. Under a fixed-price contract, the client agrees to pay a specified price for our performance of the entire contract or a specified portion of the contract. Some fixed-price contracts can include date-certain and/or performance obligations. Fixed-price contracts carry certain inherent risks, including risks of losses from underestimating costs, delays in project completion, problems with new technologies, price increases for materials, and economic and other changes that may occur over the contract period. Consequently, the profitability of fixed-price contracts may vary substantially. Under our time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for other expenses. Profitability on these contracts is driven by billable headcount and cost control. Many of our time-and-materials contracts are subject to maximum contract values and, accordingly, revenue related to these contracts is recognized as if these contracts were fixed-price contracts. Under our cost-plus contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and fees, which may be fixed or performance-based. If our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable, we may not be able to obtain full reimbursement. Further, the amount of the fee received for a 18 Table of Contents cost-plus award fee contract partially depends upon the client's discretionary periodic assessment of our performance on that contract. Some contracts with the U.S. federal government are subject to annual funding approval. U.S. federal government agencies may impose spending restrictions that limit the continued funding of our existing contracts and may limit our ability to obtain additional contracts. These limitations, if significant, could have a material adverse effect on us. All contracts with the U.S. federal government may be terminated by the government at any time, with or without cause. U.S. federal government agencies have formal policies against continuing or awarding contracts that would create actual or potential conflicts of interest with other activities of a contractor. These policies may prevent us from bidding for or performing government contracts resulting from or related to certain work we have performed. In addition, services performed for a commercial or government sector client may create conflicts of interest that preclude or limit our ability to obtain work for a private organization. We attempt to identify actual or potential conflicts of interest and to minimize the possibility that such conflicts could affect our work under current contracts or our ability to compete for future contracts. We have, on occasion, declined to bid on a project because of an existing or potential conflict of interest. Some of our operating units have contracts with the U.S. federal government that are subject to audit by the government, primarily by the Defense Contract Audit Agency ("DCAA"). The DCAA generally seeks to (i) identify and evaluate all activities that contribute to, or have an impact on, proposed or incurred costs of government contracts; (ii) evaluate a contractor's policies, procedures, controls and performance; and (iii) prevent or avoid wasteful, careless and inefficient production or service. To accomplish this, the DCAA examines our internal control systems, management policies and financial capability; evaluates the accuracy, reliability and reasonableness of our cost representations and records; and assesses our compliance with Cost Accounting Standards ("CAS") and defective-pricing clauses found within the Federal Acquisition Regulation ("FAR"). The DCAA also performs an annual review of our overhead rates and assists in the establishment of our final rates. This review focuses on the allowability of cost items and the applicability of CAS. The DCAA also audits cost-based contracts, including the close-out of those contracts. The DCAA reviews all types of U.S. federal government proposals, including those of award, administration, modification and re-pricing. The DCAA considers our cost accounting system, estimating methods and procedures, and specific proposal requirements. Operational audits are also performed by the DCAA. A review of our operations at every major organizational level is conducted during the proposal review period. During the course of its audit, the U.S. federal government may disallow costs if it determines that we accounted for such costs in a manner inconsistent with CAS. Under a government contract, only those costs that are reasonable, allocable and allowable are recoverable. A disallowance of costs by the U.S. federal government could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In accordance with our corporate policies, we maintain controls to minimize any occurrence of fraud or other unlawful activities that could result in severe legal remedies, including the payment of damages and/or penalties, criminal and civil sanctions, and debarment. In addition, we maintain preventative audit programs and mitigation measures to ensure that appropriate control systems are in place. We provide our services under contracts, purchase orders or retainer letters. Our policy provides that all contracts must be in writing. We bill our clients in accordance with the contract terms and periodically based on costs incurred, on either an hourly-fee basis or on a percentage-of-completion basis, as the project progresses. Most of our agreements permit our clients to terminate the agreements without cause upon payment of fees and expenses through the date of the termination. Generally, our contracts do not require that we provide performance bonds. If required, a performance bond, issued by a surety company, guarantees a contractor's performance under the contract. If the contractor defaults under the contract, the surety will, at its discretion, complete the job or pay the client the amount of the bond. If the contractor does not have a performance bond and defaults in the performance of a contract, the contractor is 19 Table of Contents responsible for all damages resulting from the breach of contract. These damages include the cost of completion, together with possible consequential damages such as lost profits. Marketing and Business Development Our corporate management team establishes the scope and range of services we provide and our overall business strategy. Our annual strategic planning defines and guides our investment in marketing and business development toward priority programs and growth markets. Our centralized business development support group develops corporate marketing materials, conducts market research, and manages promotional and professional activities, including appearances at trade shows, direct mailings, advertising and public relations. Business development activities are implemented by our technical and professional management staff throughout the company. We believe that these personnel have the best understanding of a client's needs and the effect of local or client-specific issues, laws and regulations and procurement procedures. Our professional staff members hold frequent meetings with existing and potential clients; give presentations to civic and professional organizations; and present seminars on current technical topics. Essential to the effective development of business is each staff member's access to all of our service offerings through our internal technical and geographic networks. Our strong internal networking programs help our professional staff members to pursue new opportunities for both for existing and new clients. These networks also facilitate our ability to provide services throughout the project life cycle from the early studies through to construction management and operations. Our information technology systems provide the support for a variety of data needs including skills search tools, business development tracking, and collaboration. For our major focus areas, consistent with our strategic plan, we have established company-wide growth initiatives that reinforce internal coordination, track the development of new programs, identify and coordinate collective resources for major bids, and help us build interdisciplinary teams for major pursuits. Our growth initiatives provide a forum for cross-sector collaboration and the development of interdisciplinary solutions. We continuously identify new markets that are consistent with our strategic plan and service offerings, and we leverage our full-service capabilities and internal coordination structure to develop and implement strategies to research, anticipate and position for future procurements and emerging programs. Sustainability Program Our Sustainability Program allows us to encourage, coordinate and report on actions to minimize our collective impacts on the environment. Our Sustainability Program has three primary pillars: Projects – the solutions we provide for our clients; Procurement – our procurement and subcontracting approaches; and Processes – the internal policies and processes that promote sustainable practices, reduce costs and minimize environmental impacts. We have established a clear set of metrics to evaluate our progress toward our sustainability goals. We continuously implement sustainability-related policies and practices, and we assess the results of our efforts in order to improve upon them in the future. Our Sustainability Program is led by our Chief Sustainability Officer, who has been appointed by executive management and is supported by other key corporate and operations representatives via our sustainability council. Our executive management team reviews and approves the Sustainability Program and evaluates our progress in achieving the goals and objectives outlined in our plan. We publish an annual sustainability report that documents our progress. Acquisitions We continuously evaluate the marketplace for strategic acquisition opportunities. Due to our reputation, size, financial resources, geographic presence and range of services, we have numerous 20 Table of Contents opportunities to acquire privately and publicly held companies or selected portions of such companies. During our evaluation, we examine the effect an acquisition may have on our long-range business strategy and results of operations. Generally, we proceed with an acquisition if we believe that it would have a positive effect on future operations and could strategically expand our service offerings. Successful integration and implementation are essential to achieving favorable results. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any acquisition will provide accretive results. Our strategy is to position ourselves to address existing and emerging markets. We view acquisitions as a key component of our growth strategy, and we intend to use cash, debt or securities, as we deem appropriate, to fund acquisitions. We may acquire other businesses that we believe are synergistic and will ultimately increase our revenue and net income, strengthen our ability to achieve our strategic goals, provide critical mass with existing clients and further expand our lines of service. We typically pay a purchase price that results in the recognition of goodwill, generally representing the intangible value of a successful business with an assembled workforce specialized in our areas of interest. Acquisitions are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flow. All acquisitions require the approval of our Board of Directors, and those in excess of a certain size require the approval of our lenders. For detailed information regarding acquisitions, see Note 4, "Mergers and Acquisitions" of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" included in Item 8. Competition The market for our services is generally competitive. We often compete with many other firms ranging from small regional firms to large international firms. We perform a broad spectrum of consulting, engineering and technical services across our reportable segments. Our client base includes U.S. federal government agencies such as the DoD, USAID, DOE, EPA and FAA; U.S. state and local government agencies; provincial governments in Canada; the U.S. commercial sector, which consists primarily of large industrial companies and utilities; and our international commercial clients, which are predominately located in Canada and include primarily mining and oil companies. Our competition varies and is a function of the business areas in which, and the client sectors for which, we perform our services. The number of competitors for any procurement can vary widely, depending upon technical qualifications, the relative value of the project, geographic location, the financial terms and risks associated with the work, and any restrictions placed upon competition by the client. Historically, clients have chosen among competing firms by weighing the quality, innovation and timeliness of the firm's service versus its cost to determine which firm offers the best value. When less work becomes available in a given market, price becomes an increasingly important factor. We believe that our principal competitors include the following firms, in alphabetical order: AECOM Technology Corporation; AMEC PLC; Arcadis NV; Black & Veatch Corporation; Brown & Caldwell; CDM Smith, Inc.; CH2M Hill Companies Ltd.; Chemonics International Inc.; Dessau Inc.; Foster Wheeler AG; GENIVAR Inc.; GHD; ICF International, Inc.; Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.; Michael Baker Corporation; MWH Global, Inc.; Science Applications International Corporation; The Shaw Group Inc.; Sinclair Knight Merz Pty Ltd.; SNC-Lavalin Group Inc.; Stantec Inc.; TRC Companies, Inc.; URS Corporation; Weston Solutions, Inc.; and Willbros Group, Inc. Backlog We include in our backlog only those contracts for which funding has been provided and work authorization has been received. We estimate that approximately 80% of our backlog at the end of fiscal 2012 will be recognized as revenue in fiscal 2013, as work is being performed. However, we cannot guarantee that the revenue projected in our backlog will be realized or, if realized, will result in profits. In 21 Table of Contents addition, project cancellations or scope adjustments may occur with respect to contracts reflected in our backlog. For example, certain of our contracts with the U.S. federal government and other clients are terminable at the discretion of the client, with or without cause. These types of backlog reductions could adversely affect our revenue and margins. Accordingly, our backlog as of any particular date is an uncertain indicator of our future earnings. At fiscal 2012 year-end, our backlog was $2.1 billion, an increase of $189.3 million, or 9.7%, compared to last year-end. Our backlog growth was driven by demand for our energy and infrastructure services in the commercial and U.S. state and local government markets. Further, the growth was due to new orders from our international clients, particularly for our water, environmental and infrastructure design services in the mining and other commodity-driven markets. Regulations We engage in various service activities that are subject to government oversight, including environmental laws and regulations, general government procurement laws and regulations, and other regulations and requirements imposed by specific government agencies with which we conduct business. Environmental. A significant portion of our business involves planning, design, program management and construction management of pollution control facilities, as well as assessment and management of remediation activities at hazardous waste or U.S. Superfund sites and military bases. In addition, we contract with U.S. federal government entities to destroy hazardous materials, including weapons stockpiles. These activities require us to manage, handle, remove, treat, transport and dispose of toxic or hazardous substances. Some environmental laws, such as the Superfund law and similar state and local statutes, can impose liability for the entire cost of clean-up for contaminated facilities or sites upon present and former owners and operators, as well as generators, transporters and persons arranging for the treatment or disposal of such substances. In addition, while we strive to handle hazardous and toxic substances with care and in accordance with safe methods, the possibility of accidents, leaks, spills and the events of force majeure always exist. Humans exposed to these materials, including workers or subcontractors engaged in the transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and persons in affected areas, may be injured or become ill, resulting in lawsuits that expose us to liability that may result in substantial damage awards. Liabilities for contamination or human exposure to hazardous or toxic materials, or a failure to comply with applicable regulations, could result in substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines, civil or criminal sanctions, third party claims for property damage or personal injury, or cessation of remediation activities. Certain of our business operations are covered by U.S. Public Law 85-804, which provides for government indemnification against claims and damages arising out of unusually hazardous activities performed at the request of the government. Due to changes in public policies and law, however, government indemnification may not be available in the case of any future claims or liabilities relating to other hazardous activities that we perform. Government Procurement. The services we provide to the U.S. federal government are subject to FAR and other rules and regulations applicable to government contracts. These rules and regulations: •require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with the contract negotiations under certain contract types; •impose accounting rules that define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based government contracts; and •restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data. 22 Table of Contents In addition, services provided to the DoD are monitored by the Defense Contract Management Agency and audited by the DCAA. Our government clients can also terminate any of their contracts, and many of our government contracts are subject to renewal or extension annually. Further, the services we provide to state and local government clients are subject to various government rules and regulations. Seasonality We experience seasonal trends in our business. Our revenue and operating income are typically lower in the first half of our fiscal year, primarily due to the Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Year's holidays. Many of our clients' employees, as well as our own employees, do not work during these holidays. Further, seasonal inclement weather conditions cause some of our offices to close temporarily or hamper our project field work, particularly in the ECS and RCM segments. These occurrences result in fewer billable hours worked on projects and, correspondingly, less revenue recognized. Our revenue is typically higher in the second half of the fiscal year due to favorable weather conditions during spring and summer months that may result in higher billable hours. In addition, our revenue is typically higher in the fourth fiscal quarter due to the U.S. federal government's fiscal year-end spending. Potential Liability and Insurance Our business activities could expose us to potential liability under various environmental laws and under workplace health and safety regulations. In addition, we occasionally assume liability by contract under indemnification agreements. We cannot predict the magnitude of such potential liabilities. We maintain a comprehensive general liability policy with an umbrella policy that covers losses beyond the general liability limits. We also maintain professional errors and omissions liability and contractor's pollution liability insurance policies. We believe that both policies provide adequate coverage for our business. When we perform higher-risk work, such as fixed-price remediation, we obtain the necessary types of insurance coverage for such activities, as is typically required by our clients. We obtain insurance coverage through a broker that is experienced in the professional liability field. The broker and our risk manager regularly review the adequacy of our insurance coverage. Because there are various exclusions and retentions under our policies, or an insurance carrier may become insolvent, there can be no assurance that all potential liabilities will be covered by our insurance policies or paid by our carrier. We evaluate the risk associated with claims. If we determine that a loss is probable and reasonably estimable, we establish an appropriate reserve. A reserve is not established if we determine that a claim has no merit or is not probable or reasonably estimable. Our historic levels of insurance coverage and reserves have been adequate. However, partially or completely uninsured claims, if successful and of significant magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Employees At fiscal 2012 year-end, we had more than 13,000 employees including part-time workers. A large percentage of our employees have technical and professional backgrounds and undergraduate and/or advanced degrees, including the employees of recently acquired companies. Our professional staff includes archaeologists, architects, biologists, chemical engineers, chemists, civil engineers, computer scientists, economists, electrical engineers, environmental engineers, environmental scientists, geologists, hydrogeologists, mechanical engineers, oceanographers, project managers and toxicologists. Approximately 500 employees are represented by labor unions pursuant to collective bargaining agreements. We often employ union workers on a project-specific basis. We consider the current relationships with our employees including those represented by unions, to be favorable. We are not aware of any employment circumstances that are likely to disrupt work at any of our facilities. See Part I, 23 Table of Contents Item 1A, "Risk Factors" for a discussion of the risks related to the loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table shows the name, age and position of each of our executive officers at November 7, 2012: Name Age Position Dan L. Batrack 54 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President Mr. Batrack joined our predecessor in 1980 and was named Chairman in January 2008. He has served as our Chief Executive Officer and a director since November 2005, and as our President since October 2008. Mr. Batrack has served in numerous capacities over the last 30 years, including project scientist, project manager, operations manager, Senior Vice President and President of an operating unit. He has managed complex programs for many small and Fortune 500 clients, both in the United States and internationally. Mr. Batrack holds a B.A. degree in Business Administration from the University of Washington. Steven M. Burdick 48 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Mr. Burdick has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since April 2011. He served as our Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller from January 2004 to March 2011. Mr. Burdick joined us in April 2003 as Vice President, Management Audit. Previously, Mr. Burdick served as the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Aura Systems, Inc. From 2000 through 2002 he was the Chief Financial Officer for TRW Ventures. Prior to this, Mr. Burdick held the position of Senior Manager with Ernst & Young LLP in Los Angeles. Mr. Burdick holds a B.S. degree in Business Administration from Santa Clara University and is a Certified Public Accountant. 24 Table of Contents Name Age Position James R. Pagenkopf 61 Executive Vice President and President of Engineering and Consulting Services Mr. Pagenkopf has served as the President of Engineering and Consulting Services since September 2009. He has 35 years of experience with us in both technical and management roles, including project and program manager, office manager, group manager, Vice President, and President of ECS' largest operating unit. Mr. Pagenkopf's academic and professional background is in the development and application of hydrodynamic and water quality models, which he has applied in more than 200 projects throughout the U.S. and internationally. He has served as program manager on several large technical support contracts for the EPA's Office of Water, and more recently has led our strategic water initiative to focus our growth in the Louisiana/Gulf Coast and Panama Canal water infrastructure markets. Mr. Pagenkopf holds a B.S. in Civil Engineering from Valparaiso University and an M.S. in Civil Engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Ronald J. Chu 55 Executive Vice President and President of Technical Support Services Mr. Chu has served as the President of Technical Support Services since June 2007. He has more than 16 years of experience with us and has served in various technical and management capacities, including project and program manager, office manager, regional manager and chief operating officer for TSS. Mr. Chu was named a Vice President in 2001. He began his career as a civil/sanitary engineer in 1981 and entered the environmental consulting field in 1984. His career has included management of major assessment, engineering and remediation programs for the DoD, the EPA, state and local government agencies, and commercial clients. Mr. Chu is a registered professional engineer in several states and has authored numerous technical articles. He holds a B.S. in Civil Engineering from Northeastern University and an M.S. in Environmental Engineering from the University of Southern California. 25 Table of Contents Name Age Position Frank C. Gross, Jr. 56 Executive Vice President and President of Remediation and Construction Management Mr. Gross joined us as the President of Remediation and Construction Management in July 2011. He previously served as President of the Industrial/Process Business Unit of URS Corporation's Washington Division since February 2008. At his former employer, Mr. Gross led an $850 million per year business group focused on construction management. He joined URS in 1978 and gained progressive responsibility in a variety of technical and leadership roles. He has more than 30 years of experience with large, multi-disciplinary engineering and construction projects in power, oil and gas, industrial/manufacturing, automotive, and other heavy industries. Mr. Gross earned a B.S. in Civil and Environmental Engineering from Clarkson University. William R. Brownlie 59 Senior Vice President, Chief Engineer Dr. Brownlie was named Senior Vice President and Chief Engineer in September 2009. From December 2005 to September 2009, he served as President of ECS. Dr. Brownlie joined our predecessor in 1981 and was named a Senior Vice President in December 1993. Dr. Brownlie has managed various operating units and programs focusing on water resources and environmental services, including work with USACE, the USAF, Bureau of Reclamation and DOE. He is a registered professional engineer and has a strong technical background in water resources. Dr. Brownlie holds B.S. and M.S. degrees in Civil Engineering from the State University of New York at Buffalo and a Ph.D. in Civil Engineering from the California Institute of Technology. Richard A. Lemmon 53 Senior Vice President, Corporate Administration Mr. Lemmon joined our predecessor in 1981 in a technical capacity and became a member of its corporate staff in a management position in 1985. In 1988, at the time of our predecessor's divestiture from Honeywell, Inc., Mr. Lemmon structured and managed many of our corporate functions. He is currently responsible for insurance, risk management, human resources, safety and facilities. 26 Table of Contents Name Age Position Janis B. Salin 59 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Ms. Salin joined us in February 2002. For the prior 17 years, Ms. Salin was a Principal with the law firm of Riordan & McKinzie in Los Angeles (which merged into Bingham McCutchen LLP in 2003), and served as Managing Principal of that firm from 1990 to 1992. She served as our outside counsel from the time of our formation in 1988. Ms. Salin holds B.A. and J.D. degrees from the University of California at Los Angeles. Craig L. Christensen 59 Senior Vice President, Chief Information Officer Mr. Christensen joined us in 1998 through the acquisition of our Tetra Tech NUS, Inc. ("NUS") subsidiary. Mr. Christensen is responsible for our information services and technologies, including the implementation of our enterprise resource planning system. Previously, Mr. Christensen held positions at NUS, Brown and Root Services, and Landmark Graphics subsidiaries of Halliburton Company where his responsibilities included contracts administration, finance and system development. Prior to his service at Halliburton, Mr. Christensen held positions at Burroughs Corporation and Apple Computer. Mr. Christensen holds B.A. and M.B.A. degrees from Brigham Young University. Michael A. Bieber 44 Senior Vice President, Corporate Development Mr. Bieber joined us in 1996, and he is currently responsible for driving strategic growth through the leadership of our mergers and acquisitions program. Mr. Bieber has overseen our investor relations function since 2000. From 1996 to 2000, he was a proposal manager in our corporate marketing group. From 1994 to 1996, Mr. Bieber served as a strategic business development consultant to large defense, infrastructure, and environmental firms at CRC, Inc. and its successor. Prior to that, Mr. Bieber worked for IT Corporation (now The Shaw Group, Inc.), where he served as project manager and engineer on government nuclear and petrochemical projects. Mr. Bieber holds a B.S. degree in Civil Engineering from the Tennessee Technological University. 27 Table of Contents Name Age Position Leslie L. Shoemaker 55 Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy Dr. Shoemaker joined us in 1991, and she is currently responsible for our strategic planning, business development, sustainability and corporate communications functions. Dr. Shoemaker coordinates our Strategic Initiatives Program, which supports company-wide collaboration on key services in our major growth markets. Dr. Shoemaker is our Chief Sustainability Officer. She also leads water resources modeling and systems development projects, and consults on the development of policy and programs for watershed management and sustainable communities. Dr. Shoemaker has more than 25 years of industry experience and has previously served in various technical and management capacities including project engineer, project manager, Vice President, and technical practice leader. Dr. Shoemaker holds a B.A. degree in Mathematics from Hamilton College, a Master of Engineering from Cornell University and a Ph.D. in Agricultural Engineering from the University of Maryland. Kevin P. McDonald 53 Senior Vice President, Corporate Human Resources Mr. McDonald joined us in 2004 through the acquisition of Foster Wheeler Environmental Corporation. He is responsible for all areas of human resources ("HR"), including executive compensation, employee benefits, succession planning, human resources information systems, and employment law compliance. Prior to leading our corporate HR organization, Mr. McDonald was the HR Director for one of our subsidiaries. He has more than 30 years' experience in the engineering and construction services industry. Mr. McDonald earned a B.S. degree in Management from the University of Scranton and an M.B.A from Fairleigh Dickinson University. 28 Table of Contents Name Age Position Brian N. Carter 45 Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer Mr. Carter joined Tetra Tech as Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer in June 2011 and was appointed Senior Vice President in October 2012. He previously served as Vice President of Finance and Administration for Wedbush, Inc., a privately held financial services holding company, from September 2009 to June 2011. Mr. Carter was Vice President, Financial Planning and Analysis, for AECOM Technology Corporation during 2008 and 2009. He was Executive Vice President, Financial Planning & Analysis and Management Accounting for IndyMac Bancorp, Inc. from 2002 to 2008, and he previously held finance and auditing positions with Huntington Bancshares, Inc., Nationwide Financial Services, Inc., and Ernst & Young LLP. Mr. Carter holds a B.S. in Business Administration from Miami University and is a Certified Public Accountant. Available Information All of our periodic report filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), are made available, free of charge, through our website located at www.tetratech.com, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports. These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file with or furnish the reports to the SEC. You may also request an electronic or paper copy of these filings at no cost by writing or telephoning us at the following: Tetra Tech, Inc., Attention: Investor Relations, 3475 East Foothill Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91107, (626) 351-4664. 29 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our operations. The risks described below highlight some of the factors that have affected, and in the future could affect, our operations. Additional risks we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also affect our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our operating results may be adversely impacted by worldwide political and economic uncertainties and specific conditions in the markets we address. General worldwide economic conditions have experienced a downturn due to the reduction of available credit, slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, increased energy and commodity costs, decreased consumer confidence and capital spending, adverse business conditions, and, in the United States, the negative impact on economic growth resulting from the combination of federal income tax increases and government spending restrictions (described in more detail below) potentially occurring at the end of calendar year 2012 (commonly referred to as the "fiscal cliff."). These conditions make it extremely difficult for our clients and our vendors to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could cause businesses to slow spending on services, and they have also made it very difficult for us to predict the short-term and long-term impacts on our business. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery worldwide or in our industry. If the economy or markets in which we operate deteriorate from the level experienced in fiscal 2012, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The Budget Control Act of 2011 could significantly reduce government spending for the services we provide. On August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the "Budget Control Act") was enacted, which could impose an estimated $1.2 trillion in future federal spending cuts if budget deficit targets are not achieved. If the federal government does not meet the Budget Control Act targets or does not otherwise delay or change this legislation, then automatic across-the-board budget cuts, or sequestrations, will be mandated across the federal budget in fiscal year 2013. Any significant reduction in federal government spending could reduce demand for our services, cancel or delay federal projects, and result in the closure of federal facilities and significant personnel reductions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. Our annual revenue, expenses and operating results may fluctuate significantly, which may adversely affect our stock price. Our annual revenue, expenses and operating results may fluctuate significantly because of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment. These factors include: •general economic or political conditions; •unanticipated changes in contract performance that may affect profitability, particularly with contracts that are fixed-price or have funding limits; •contract negotiations on change orders, requests for equitable adjustment, and collections of related billed and unbilled accounts receivable; •seasonality of the spending cycle of our public sector clients, notably the U.S. federal government, the spending patterns of our commercial sector clients, and weather conditions; •budget constraints experienced by our U.S. federal, state and local government clients; 30 Table of Contents •integration of acquired companies; •changes in contingent consideration related to acquisition earn-outs; •divestiture or discontinuance of operating units; •employee hiring, utilization and turnover rates; •loss of key employees; •the number and significance of client contracts commenced and completed during a quarter; •creditworthiness and solvency of clients; •the ability of our clients to terminate contracts without penalties; •delays incurred in connection with a contract; •the size, scope and payment terms of contracts; •the timing of expenses incurred for corporate initiatives; •reductions in the prices of services offered by our competitors; •threatened or pending litigation; •legislative and regulatory enforcement policy changes that may affect demand for our services; •the impairment of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets; •the fluctuation of a foreign currency exchange rate; •stock-based compensation expense; •actual events, circumstances, outcomes and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions and estimates used in determining the value of certain assets (including the amounts of related valuation allowances), liabilities and other items reflected in our consolidated financial statements; •how well we execute our strategy and operating plans; •changes in tax laws or regulations or accounting rules; •results of income tax examinations; •the timing of announcements in the public markets regarding new services or potential problems with the performance of services by us or our competitors, or any other material announcements; •speculation in the media and analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors' or analysts' valuation measures for our stock and market trends unrelated to our stock; and •continued volatility in the financial markets. As a consequence, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition that could adversely affect our stock price. 31 Table of Contents Demand from our U.S. state and local government clients and U.S. commercial clients is cyclical and vulnerable to economic downturns. If economic growth slows, government fiscal conditions worsen, or client spending declines further, then our revenue, profits and our financial condition may deteriorate. Demand for services from our U.S. state and local government clients and U.S. commercial clients is cyclical and vulnerable to economic downturns, which may result in clients delaying, curtailing or canceling proposed and existing projects. Our business traditionally lags the overall recovery in the economy; therefore, our business may not recover immediately when the economy improves. If economic growth slows, U.S. state or local government fiscal conditions worsen, or client spending declines further, then our revenue, profits and overall financial condition may deteriorate. Our U.S. state and local government clients may face budget deficits that prohibit them from funding new or existing projects. In addition, our existing and potential clients may either postpone entering into new contracts or request price concessions. Difficult financing and economic conditions may cause some of our clients to demand better pricing terms or delay payments for services we perform, thereby increasing the average number of days our receivables are outstanding and the potential of increased credit losses of uncollectible invoices. Further, these conditions may result in the inability of some of our clients to pay us for services that we have already performed. If we are not able to reduce our costs quickly enough to respond to the revenue decline from these clients, our operating results may be adversely affected. Accordingly, these factors affect our ability to forecast our future revenue and earnings from business areas that may be adversely impacted by market conditions. Our revenue from U.S. commercial clients is significant, and the credit risks associated with certain of these clients could adversely affect our operating results. In fiscal 2012, we generated 26.5% of our revenue from U.S. commercial clients. Due to continuing weakness in general economic conditions, our U.S. commercial business may be at risk as we rely upon the financial stability and creditworthiness of our clients. To the extent the credit quality of these clients deteriorates or these clients seek bankruptcy protection, our ability to collect our receivables, and ultimately our operating results, may be adversely affected. We derive a substantial amount of our revenue from U.S. federal, state and local government agencies, and any disruption in government funding or in our relationship with those agencies could adversely affect our business. In fiscal 2012, we generated 49.0% of our revenue from contracts with U.S. federal, state and local government agencies. U.S. federal government agencies are among our most significant clients. We generated 37.2% of our revenue for fiscal 2012 from the following agencies: 14.4% from DoD agencies, 9.2% from USAID and 13.6% from other U.S. federal government agencies. A significant amount of this revenue is derived under multi-year contracts, many of which are appropriated on an annual basis. As a result, at the beginning of a project, the related contract may be only partially funded, and additional funding is normally committed only as appropriations are made in each subsequent year. These appropriations, and the timing of payment of appropriated amounts, may be influenced by numerous factors as noted below. Our backlog includes only the projects that have funding appropriated. The demand for our U.S. government-related services is generally driven by the level of government program funding. Accordingly, the success and further development of our business depends, in large part, upon the continued funding of these U.S. government programs, and upon our ability to obtain contracts and perform well under these programs. There are several factors that could materially affect our U.S. government contracting business, including the following: •the failure of the U.S. government to complete its budget process before its fiscal year-end, which results in the funding of government operations by means of a continuing resolution that authorizes 32 Table of Contents agencies to continue to operate but does not authorize new spending initiatives. As a result, U.S. government agencies may delay the procurement of services; •changes in and delays or cancellations of government programs, requirements or appropriations; •budget constraints or policy changes resulting in delay or curtailment of expenditures related to the services we provide; •re-competes of government contracts; •the timing and amount of tax revenue received by federal, state and local governments, and the overall level of government expenditures; •curtailment in the use of government contracting firms; •delays associated with insufficient numbers of government staff to oversee contracts; •the increasing preference by government agencies for contracting with small and disadvantaged businesses; •competing political priorities and changes in the political climate with regard to the funding or operation of the services we provide; •the adoption of new laws or regulations affecting our contracting relationships with the federal, state or local governments; •unsatisfactory performance on government contracts by us or one of our subcontractors, negative government audits, or other events that may impair our relationship with the federal, state or local governments; •a dispute with or improper activity by any of our subcontractors; and •general economic or political conditions. These and other factors could cause U.S. government agencies to delay or cancel programs, to reduce their orders under existing contracts, to exercise their rights to terminate contracts or not to exercise contract options for renewals or extensions. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our revenue or timing of contract payments from these agencies. As a U.S. government contractor, we must comply with various procurement laws and regulations and are subject to regular government audits; a violation of any of these laws and regulations or the failure to pass a government audit could result in sanctions, contract termination, forfeiture of profit, harm to our reputation or loss of our status as an eligible government contractor and could reduce our profits and revenue. We must comply with and are affected by U.S. federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts. For example, we must comply with FAR, the Truth in Negotiations Act, CAS, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, the Services Contract Act and DoD security regulations, as well as many other rules and regulations. In addition, we must also comply with other government regulations related to employment practices, environmental protection, health and safety, tax, accounting and anti-fraud measures, as well as many others regulations in order to maintain our government contractor status. These laws and regulations affect how we do business with our clients and, in some instances, impose additional costs on our business operations. Although we take precautions to prevent and deter fraud, misconduct and non-compliance, we face the risk that our employees or outside partners may engage in misconduct, fraud or other improper activities. U.S. government agencies, such as the DCAA, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These government agencies review and audit a government contractor's performance under its contracts and cost structure, and evaluate compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. In 33 Table of Contents addition, during the course of its audits, the DCAA may question our incurred project costs. If the DCAA believes we have accounted for such costs in a manner inconsistent with the requirements for FAR or CAS, the DCAA auditor may recommend to our U.S. government corporate administrative contracting officer to disallow such costs. Historically, we have not experienced significant disallowed costs as a result of government audits. However, we can provide no assurance that the DCAA or other government audits will not result in material disallowance for incurred costs in the future. In addition, U.S. government contracts are subject to a variety of other requirements relating to the formation, administration, performance and accounting for these contracts. We may also be subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the U.S. government under the Federal Civil False Claims Act, which could include claims for treble damages. U.S. government contract violations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties or sanctions, contract termination, forfeiture of profit and/or suspension of payment, any of which could make us lose our status as an eligible government contractor. We could also suffer serious harm to our reputation. Any interruption or termination of our U.S. government contractor status could reduce our profits and revenue significantly. Our inability to win or renew U.S. government contracts during regulated procurement processes could harm our operations and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. U.S. government contracts are awarded through a regulated procurement process. The U.S. federal government has increasingly relied upon multi-year contracts with pre-established terms and conditions, such as indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity ("IDIQ") contracts, which generally require those contractors who have previously been awarded the IDIQ to engage in an additional competitive bidding process before a task order is issued. As a result, new work awards tend to be smaller and of shorter duration, since the orders represent individual tasks rather than large, programmatic assignments. The increased competition, in turn, may require us to make sustained efforts to reduce costs in order to realize revenue and profits under government contracts. If we are not successful in reducing the amount of costs we incur, our profitability on government contracts will be negatively impacted. In addition, the U.S. federal government has announced its intention to scale back outsourcing of services in favor of "insourcing" jobs to its employees, which could reduce our revenue. Moreover, even if we are qualified to work on a government contract, we may not be awarded the contract because of existing government policies designed to protect small businesses and underrepresented minority contractors. Our inability to win or renew government contracts during regulated procurement processes could harm our operations and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Each year, client funding for some of our U.S. government contracts may rely on government appropriations or public-supported financing. If adequate public funding is delayed or is not available, then our profits and revenue could decline. Each year, client funding for some of our U.S. government contracts may directly or indirectly rely on government appropriations or public-supported financing. Legislatures may appropriate funds for a given project on a year-by-year basis, even though the project may take more than one year to perform. In addition, public-supported financing such as U.S. state and local municipal bonds may be only partially raised to support existing projects. The outcome of ongoing political debate in Congress regarding cuts to federal government spending could result in reductions in the funding proposed by the Administration for certain projects. The Budget Control Act includes significant reductions in U.S. federal government spending over a 10-year period. Similarly, the impact of the economic downturn on U.S. state and local governments may make it more difficult for them to fund projects. In addition to the state of the economy and competing political priorities, public funds and the timing of payment of these funds may be influenced by, among other things, curtailments in the use of government contracting firms, increases in raw material costs, delays associated with insufficient numbers of government staff to oversee contracts, budget constraints, the timing and amount of tax receipts and the overall level of government expenditures. If adequate public funding is not available or is delayed, then our profits and revenue could decline. 34 Table of Contents Our U.S. federal government contracts may give government agencies the right to modify, delay, curtail, renegotiate or terminate existing contracts at their convenience at any time prior to their completion, which may result in a decline in our profits and revenue. U.S. federal government projects in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor may extend for several years. Generally, government contracts include the right to modify, delay, curtail, renegotiate or terminate contracts and subcontracts at the government's convenience any time prior to their completion. Any decision by a U.S. federal government client to modify, delay, curtail, renegotiate or terminate our contracts at their convenience may result in a decline in our profits and revenue. Our international operations expose us to legal, political and economic risks that could harm our business and financial results. For example, we could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. In fiscal 2012, we generated 24.5% of our revenue from our international operations, primarily in Canada, and from international clients for work that is performed by our domestic operations. International business is subject to a variety of risks, including: •potential non-compliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations, including anti-corruption and anti-boycott rules, trade and export control regulations, and other international regulations; •lack of developed legal systems to enforce contractual rights; •greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; •currency exchange rate fluctuations, devaluations and other conversion restrictions; •the potential for civil unrest, acts of terrorism and greater physical security risks, which may cause us to leave a country quickly; •logistical and communication challenges; •imposition of governmental controls and potentially adverse changes in laws and regulatory practices, including tariffs and taxes; •changes in labor conditions; and •general economic, political and financial conditions in foreign markets. International risks and violations of international regulations may significantly reduce our revenue and profits, and subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, including fines, suspensions or disqualification from future U.S. federal procurement contracting. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and similar anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 prohibits both domestic and international bribery, as well as bribery across both private and public sectors. In addition, an organization that "fails to prevent bribery" by anyone associated with the organization can be charged under the U.K. Bribery Act unless the organization can establish the defense of having implemented "adequate procedures" to prevent bribery. Practices in the local business community of many countries outside the U.S. have a level of government corruption that is greater than that found in the developed world. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws and we have established policies and procedures designed to monitor compliance with these anti-bribery law requirements; however, we cannot ensure that our policies and procedures will protect us from potential reckless or criminal acts committed by individual employees or agents. If we are found to be liable for anti-bribery law violations we could suffer from criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. 35 Table of Contents If we fail to complete a project in a timely manner, miss a required performance standard or otherwise fail to adequately perform on a project, then we may incur a loss on that project, which may reduce or eliminate our overall profitability. Our engagements often involve large-scale, complex projects. The quality of our performance on such projects depends in large part upon our ability to manage the relationship with our clients and our ability to effectively manage the project and deploy appropriate resources, including third-party contractors and our own personnel, in a timely manner. We may commit to a client that we will complete a project by a scheduled date. We may also commit that a project, when completed, will achieve specified performance standards. If the project is not completed by the scheduled date or fails to meet required performance standards, we may either incur significant additional costs or be held responsible for the costs incurred by the client to rectify damages due to late completion or failure to achieve the required performance standards. The uncertainty of the timing of a project can present difficulties in planning the amount of personnel needed for the project. If the project is delayed or canceled, we may bear the cost of an underutilized workforce that was dedicated to fulfilling the project. In addition, performance of projects can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including unavoidable delays from government inaction, public opposition, inability to obtain financing, weather conditions, unavailability of vendor materials, changes in the project scope of services requested by our clients, industrial accidents, environmental hazards, labor disruptions and other factors. To the extent these events occur, the total costs of the project could exceed our estimates, and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, incur a loss on a project, which may reduce or eliminate our overall profitability. Further, any defects or errors, or failures to meet our clients' expectations, could result in claims for damages against us. Our contracts generally limit our liability for damages that arise from negligent acts, errors, mistakes or omissions in rendering services to our clients. However, we cannot be sure that these contractual provisions will protect us from liability for damages in the event we are sued. The loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could significantly disrupt our business. As primarily a professional and technical services company, we are labor-intensive and, therefore, our ability to attract, retain and expand our senior management and our professional and technical staff is an important factor in determining our future success. The market for qualified scientists and engineers is competitive and, from time to time, it may be difficult to attract and retain qualified individuals with the required expertise within the timeframe demanded by our clients. For example, some of our U.S. government contracts may require us to employ only individuals who have particular government security clearance levels. In addition, we rely heavily upon the expertise and leadership of our senior management. If we are unable to retain executives and other key personnel, the roles and responsibilities of those employees will need to be filled, which may require that we devote time and resources to identify, hire and integrate new employees. With limited exceptions, we do not have employment agreements with any of our key personnel. The loss of the services of any of these key personnel could adversely affect our business. Although we have obtained non-compete agreements from certain principals and stockholders of companies we have acquired, we generally do not have non-compete or employment agreements with key employees who were once equity holders of these companies. Further, many of our non-compete agreements have expired. We do not maintain key-man life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or senior managers. Our failure to attract and retain key individuals could impair our ability to provide services to our clients and conduct our business effectively. Our actual business and financial results could differ from the estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our financial statements, which may significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. To prepare financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), management is required to make estimates and assumptions as of the date of the financial 36 Table of Contents statements. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, as well as disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. For example, we typically recognize revenue over the life of a contract based on the proportion of costs incurred to date compared to the total costs estimated to be incurred for the entire project. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include: •the application of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting and revenue recognition on contracts, change orders and contract claims including related unbilled accounts receivable; •unbilled accounts receivable including amounts related to requests for equitable adjustment to contracts that provide for price redetermination, primarily with the U.S. federal government. These amounts are recorded only when they can be reliably estimated and realization is probable; •provisions for uncollectible receivables, client claims and recoveries of costs from subcontractors, vendors and others; •provisions for income taxes, research and experimentation ("R&E") credits, valuation allowances and unrecognized tax benefits; •value of goodwill and recoverability of other intangible assets; •valuations of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with business combinations; •valuation of contingent earn-out liabilities in connection with business combinations; •valuation of employee benefit plans; •valuation of stock-based compensation expense; and •accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation and insurance reserves. Our actual business and financial results could differ from those estimates, which may significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Our profitability could suffer if we are not able to maintain adequate utilization of our workforce. The cost of providing our services, including the extent to which we utilize our workforce, affects our profitability. The rate at which we utilize our workforce is affected by a number of factors, including: •our ability to transition employees from completed projects to new assignments and to hire and assimilate new employees; •our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforces; •our ability to manage attrition; •our need to devote time and resources to training, business development, professional development and other non-chargeable activities; and •our ability to match the skill sets of our employees to the needs of the marketplace. If we over-utilize our workforce, our employees may become disengaged, which will impact employee attrition. If we under-utilize our workforce, our profit margin and profitability could suffer. Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of revenue recognition could result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenue and profits. We account for most of our contracts on the percentage-of-completion method of revenue recognition. Generally, our use of this method results in recognition of revenue and profit ratably over the 37 Table of Contents life of the contract, based on the proportion of costs incurred to date to total costs expected to be incurred for the entire project. The effects of revisions to revenue and estimated costs, including the achievement of award fees as well as the impact of change orders and claims, are recorded when the amounts are known and can be reasonably estimated. Such revisions could occur in any period and their effects could be material. Although we have historically made reasonably reliable estimates of the progress towards completion of long-term contracts, the uncertainties inherent in the estimating process make it possible for actual costs to vary materially from estimates, including reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenue and profit. If we are unable to accurately estimate and control our contract costs, then we may incur losses on our contracts, which could decrease our operating margins and reduce our profits. In particular, our fixed-price contracts could increase the unpredictability of our earnings. It is important for us to accurately estimate and control our contract costs so that we can maintain positive operating margins and profitability. We generally enter into three principal types of contracts with our clients: fixed-price, time-and-materials and cost-plus. The U.S. federal government and some clients have increased the use of fixed-priced contracts. Under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and, consequently, we are exposed to a number of risks. We realize a profit on fixed-price contracts only if we can control our costs and prevent cost over-runs on our contracts. Fixed-price contracts require cost and scheduling estimates that are based on a number of assumptions, including those about future economic conditions, costs and availability of labor, equipment and materials, and other exigencies. We could experience cost overruns if these estimates are originally inaccurate as a result of errors or ambiguities in the contract specifications, or become inaccurate as a result of a change in circumstances following the submission of the estimate due to, among other things, unanticipated technical problems, difficulties in obtaining permits or approvals, changes in local laws or labor conditions, weather delays, changes in the costs of raw materials, or inability of our vendors or subcontractors to perform. If cost overruns occur, we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project. If a project is significant, or if there are one or more common issues that impact multiple projects, costs overruns could increase the unpredictability of our earnings as well as have a material adverse impact on our business and earnings. Under our time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and also paid for other expenses. Profitability on these contracts is driven by billable headcount and cost control. Many of our time-and-materials contracts are subject to maximum contract values and, accordingly, revenue relating to these contracts is recognized as if these contracts were fixed-price contracts. Under our cost-plus contracts, some of which are subject to contract ceiling amounts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and fees, which may be fixed or performance-based. If our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or any applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all of the costs we incur. Profitability on our contracts is driven by billable headcount and our ability to manage our subcontractors, vendors and material suppliers. If we are unable to accurately estimate and manage our costs, we may incur losses on our contracts, which could decrease our operating margins and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Certain of our contracts require us to satisfy specific design, engineering, procurement or construction milestones in order to receive payment for the work completed or equipment or supplies procured prior to achievement of the applicable milestone. As a result, under these types of arrangements, we may incur significant costs or perform significant amounts of services prior to receipt of payment. If a client determines not to proceed with the completion of the project or if the client defaults on its payment obligations, we may face difficulties in collecting payment of amounts due to us for the costs previously incurred or for the amounts previously expended to purchase equipment or supplies. 38 Table of Contents Accounting for a contract requires judgments relative to assessing the contract's estimated risks, revenue, costs and other technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of overall risk, revenue and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may also adversely affect future period financial performance. If we are unable to accurately estimate the overall revenue or costs on a contract, then we may experience a lower profit or incur a loss on the contract. Our failure to win new contracts and renew existing contracts with private and public sector clients could adversely affect our profitability. Our business depends on our ability to win new contracts and renew existing contracts with private and public sector clients. Contract proposals and negotiations are complex and frequently involve a lengthy bidding and selection process, which is affected by a number of factors. These factors include market conditions, financing arrangements and required governmental approvals. For example, a client may require us to provide a bond or letter of credit to protect the client should we fail to perform under the terms of the contract. If negative market conditions arise, or if we fail to secure adequate financial arrangements or the required government approval, we may not be able to pursue particular projects, which could adversely affect our profitability. We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions that could disrupt our operations and adversely impact our business and operating results. Our failure to conduct due diligence effectively or our inability to successfully integrate acquisitions could impede us from realizing all of the benefits of the acquisitions, which could weaken our results of operations. A key part of our growth strategy is to acquire other companies that complement our lines of business or that broaden our technical capabilities and geographic presence. We expect to continue to acquire companies as an element of our growth strategy; however, our ability to make acquisitions is restricted under our credit agreement. Acquisitions involve certain known and unknown risks that could cause our actual growth or operating results to differ from our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts. For example: •we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to acquire additional companies on acceptable terms; •we are pursuing international acquisitions, which inherently pose more risk than domestic acquisitions; •we compete with others to acquire companies, which may result in decreased availability of, or increased price for, suitable acquisition candidates; •we may not be able to obtain the necessary financing, on favorable terms or at all, to finance any of our potential acquisitions; •we may ultimately fail to consummate an acquisition even if we announce that we plan to acquire a company; and •acquired companies may not perform as we expect, and we may fail to realize anticipated revenue and profits. In addition, our acquisition strategy may divert management's attention away from our existing businesses, resulting in the loss of key clients or key employees, and expose us to unanticipated problems or legal liabilities, including responsibility as a successor-in-interest for undisclosed or contingent liabilities of acquired businesses or assets. If we fail to conduct due diligence on our potential targets effectively, we may, for example, not identify problems at target companies or fail to recognize incompatibilities or other obstacles to successful 39 Table of Contents integration. Our inability to successfully integrate future acquisitions could impede us from realizing all of the benefits of those acquisitions and could severely weaken our business operations. The integration process may disrupt our business and, if implemented ineffectively, may preclude realization of the full benefits expected by us and could harm our results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of the combining companies may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, and competitive responses, and may cause our stock price to decline. The difficulties of integrating an acquisition include, among others: •issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; •incompatibility of logistics, marketing and administration methods; •maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees; •integrating the business cultures of both companies; •preserving important strategic client relationships; •consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations; and •coordinating geographically separate organizations. In addition, even if the operations of an acquisition are integrated successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of the acquisition, including the synergies, cost savings or growth opportunities that we expect. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Further, acquisitions may cause us to: •issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders' ownership percentage; •use a substantial portion of our cash resources; •increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements (if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition); •assume liabilities, including environmental liabilities, for which we do not have indemnification from the former owners. Further, indemnification obligations may be subject to dispute or concerns regarding the creditworthiness of the former owners; •record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing and potential impairment charges; •experience volatility in earnings due to changes in contingent consideration related to acquisition earn-out liability estimates; •incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; •lose existing or potential contracts as a result of conflict of interest issues; •incur large and immediate write-offs; or •become subject to litigation. Finally, acquired companies that derive a significant portion of their revenue from the U.S. federal government and that do not follow the same cost accounting policies and billing practices that we follow may be subject to larger cost disallowances for greater periods than we typically encounter. If we fail to determine the existence of unallowable costs and do not establish appropriate reserves in advance of an acquisition, we may be exposed to material unanticipated liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 40 Table of Contents If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, then our profits may be significantly reduced. Because we have historically acquired a significant number of companies, goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. At September 30, 2012, our goodwill was $636.0 million and other intangible assets were $74.2 million. We are required to perform a goodwill impairment test for potential impairment at least on an annual basis. We also assess the recoverability of the unamortized balance of our intangible assets when indications of impairment are present based on expected future profitability and undiscounted expected cash flows and their contribution to our overall operations. The goodwill impairment test requires us to determine the fair value of our reporting units, which are the components one level below our reportable segments. In determining fair value, we make significant judgments and estimates, including assumptions about our strategic plans with regard to our operations. We also analyze current economic indicators and market valuations to help determine fair value. To the extent economic conditions that would impact the future operations of our reporting units change, our goodwill may be deemed to be impaired, and we would be required to record a non-cash charge that could result in a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. If we are not able to successfully manage our growth strategy, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our expected future growth presents numerous managerial, administrative, operational and other challenges. Our ability to manage the growth of our operations will require us to continue to improve our management information systems and our other internal systems and controls. In addition, our growth will increase our need to attract, develop, motivate and retain both our management and professional employees. The inability to effectively manage our growth or the inability of our employees to achieve anticipated performance could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our backlog is subject to cancellation and unexpected adjustments, and is an uncertain indicator of future operating results. Our backlog at September 30, 2012, was $2.1 billion. We include in backlog only those contracts for which funding has been provided and work authorizations have been received. We cannot guarantee that the revenue projected in our backlog will be realized or, if realized, will result in profits. In addition, project cancellations or scope adjustments may occur, from time to time, with respect to contracts reflected in our backlog. For example, certain of our contracts with the U.S. federal government and other clients are terminable at the discretion of the client, with or without cause. These types of backlog reductions could adversely affect our revenue and margins. Accordingly, our backlog as of any particular date is an uncertain indicator of our future earnings. If our business partners fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project, we could be exposed to legal liability, loss of reputation and profit reduction or loss on the project. We routinely enter into subcontracts and, occasionally, joint ventures, teaming arrangements and other contractual arrangements so that we can jointly bid and perform on a particular project. Success under these arrangements depends in large part on whether our business partners fulfill their contractual obligations satisfactorily. In addition, when we operate through a joint venture in which we are a minority holder, we have limited control over many project decisions, including decisions related to the joint venture's internal controls, which may not be subject to the same internal control procedures that we employ. If these unaffiliated third parties do not fulfill their contract obligations, the partnerships or joint ventures may be unable to adequately perform and deliver their contracted services. Under these circumstances, we may be obligated to pay financial penalties, provide additional services to ensure the adequate performance and delivery of the contracted services and may be jointly and severally liable for the other's actions or contract performance. These additional obligations could result in reduced profits 41 Table of Contents and revenues or, in some cases, significant losses for us with respect to the joint venture, which could also affect our reputation in the industries we serve. If our contractors and subcontractors fail to satisfy their obligations to us or other parties, or if we are unable to maintain these relationships, our revenue, profitability and growth prospects could be adversely affected. We depend on contractors and subcontractors in conducting our business. There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors arising from, among other things, the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, client concerns about the subcontractor, or our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract. In addition, if any of our subcontractors fail to deliver on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies, fail to perform the agreed-upon services or go out of business, then our ability to fulfill our obligations as a prime contractor may be jeopardized. We also rely on relationships with other contractors when we act as their subcontractor or joint venture partner. The absence of qualified subcontractors with which we have a satisfactory relationship could adversely affect the quality of our service and our ability to perform under some of our contracts. Our future revenue and growth prospects could be adversely affected if other contractors eliminate or reduce their subcontracts or teaming arrangement relationships with us, or if a government agency terminates or reduces these other contractors' programs, does not award them new contracts or refuses to pay under a contract. We may be required to pay liquidated damages if we fail to meet milestone requirements in our contracts. We may be required to pay liquidated damages if we fail to meet milestone requirements in our contracts. Failure to meet any of the milestone requirements could result in additional costs, and the amount of such additional costs could exceed the projected profits on the project. These additional costs include liquidated damages paid under contractual penalty provisions, which can be substantial and can accrue on a regular basis. Changes in resource management, environmental or infrastructure industry laws, regulations and programs could directly or indirectly reduce the demand for our services, which could in turn negatively impact our revenue. Some of our services are directly or indirectly impacted by changes in U.S. federal, state, local or foreign laws and regulations pertaining to resource management, the environment and infrastructure. Accordingly, a relaxation or repeal of these laws and regulations, or changes in governmental policies regarding the funding, implementation or enforcement of these programs, could result in a decline in demand for our services, which could in turn negatively impact our revenue. Changes in capital markets could adversely affect our access to capital and negatively impact our business. Our results could be adversely affected by an inability to access the revolving credit facility under our credit agreement. Unfavorable financial or economic conditions could impact certain lenders' willingness or ability to fund our revolving credit facility. In addition, increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of debt issuance, the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers, the types of credit-sensitive products being offered, and/or a sustained period of market decline or weakness could have a material adverse effect on us. 42 Table of Contents Restrictive covenants in our credit agreement may restrict our ability to pursue certain business strategies. Our credit agreement limits or restricts our ability to, among other things: •incur additional indebtedness; •create liens securing debt or other encumbrances on our assets; •make loans or advances; •pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; •purchase or redeem our stock; •repay indebtedness that is junior to indebtedness under our credit agreement; •acquire the assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies; and •sell, lease or otherwise dispose of assets. Our credit agreement also requires that we maintain certain financial ratios, which we may not be able to achieve. The covenants may impair our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other favorable business activities. Our industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete effectively. Our industry is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. Our competitors are numerous, ranging from small private firms to multi-billion-dollar public companies. In addition, the technical and professional aspects of our services generally do not require large upfront capital expenditures and provide limited barriers against new competitors. Some of our competitors have achieved greater market penetration in some of the markets in which we compete, and some have substantially more financial resources and/or financial flexibility than we do. As a result of the number of competitors in the industry, our clients may select one of our competitors on a project due to competitive pricing or a specific skill set. These competitive forces could force us to make price concessions or otherwise reduce prices for our services. If we are unable to maintain our competitiveness, our market share, revenue and profits will decline. Legal proceedings, investigations and disputes could result in substantial monetary penalties and damages, especially if such penalties and damages exceed or are excluded from existing insurance coverage. We engage in consulting, engineering, program management, construction management, construction and technical services that can result in substantial injury or damages that may expose us to legal proceedings, investigations and disputes. For example, in the ordinary course of our business, we may be involved in legal disputes regarding personal injury claims, employee or labor disputes, professional liability claims, and general commercial disputes involving project cost overruns and liquidated damages as well as other claims. In addition, in the ordinary course of our business, we frequently make professional judgments and recommendations about environmental and engineering conditions of project sites for our clients, and we may be deemed to be responsible for these judgments and recommendations if they are later determined to be inaccurate. Any unfavorable legal ruling against us could result in substantial monetary damages or even criminal violations. We maintain insurance coverage as part of our overall legal and risk management strategy to minimize our potential liabilities; however, insurance coverage contains exclusions and other limitations that may not cover our potential liabilities. Generally, our insurance program covers workers' compensation and employer's liability, general liability, automobile liability, professional errors and omissions liability, property, and contractor's pollution liability (in addition to other policies for specific projects). Our insurance program includes deductibles or self-insured retentions for each covered claim that may increase over time. In addition, our insurance policies contain exclusions that insurance providers may use to deny or restrict coverage. Excess liability and professional liability 43 Table of Contents insurance policies provide for coverage on a "claims-made" basis, covering only claims actually made and reported during the policy period currently in effect. If we sustain liabilities that exceed or that are excluded from our insurance coverage or for which we are not insured, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Unavailability or cancellation of third-party insurance coverage would increase our overall risk exposure as well as disrupt the management of our business operations. We maintain insurance coverage from third-party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. If any of our third-party insurers fail, suddenly cancel our coverage or otherwise are unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage, then our overall/ risk exposure and our operational expenses would increase and the management of our business operations would be disrupted. In addition, there can be no assurance that any of our existing insurance coverage will be renewable upon the expiration of the coverage period or that future coverage will be affordable at the required limits. Our inability to obtain adequate bonding could have a material adverse effect on our future revenue and business prospects. Certain clients require bid bonds and performance and payment bonds. These bonds indemnify the client should we fail to perform our obligations under a contract. If a bond is required for a particular project and we are unable to obtain an appropriate bond, we cannot pursue that project. In some instances, we are required to co-venture with a small or disadvantaged business to pursue certain U.S. federal or state government contracts. In connection with these ventures, we are sometimes required to utilize our bonding capacity to cover all of the payment and performance obligations under the contract with the client. We have a bonding facility but, as is typically the case, the issuance of bonds under that facility is at the surety's sole discretion. Moreover, due to events that can negatively affect the insurance and bonding markets, bonding may be more difficult to obtain or may only be available at significant additional cost. There can be no assurance that bonds will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms. Our inability to obtain adequate bonding and, as a result, to bid on new work could have a material adverse effect on our future revenue and business prospects. Employee, agent or partner misconduct or our overall failure to comply with laws or regulations could harm our reputation, reduce our revenue and profits, and subject us to criminal and civil enforcement actions. Misconduct, fraud, non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or other improper activities by one of our employees, agents or partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified information, regulations prohibiting bribery and other foreign corrupt practices, regulations regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, regulations on lobbying or similar activities, regulations pertaining to the internal controls over financial reporting, environmental laws and any other applicable laws or regulations. For example, the FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these regulations and laws, and we take precautions to prevent and detect misconduct. However, since our internal controls are subject to inherent limitations, including human error, it is possible that these controls could be intentionally circumvented or become inadequate because of changed conditions. As a result, we cannot assure that our controls will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or acts of misconduct could subject us to fines and penalties, loss of security clearances, and suspension or debarment from contracting, any or all of which could harm our reputation, reduce our revenue and profits, and subject us to criminal and civil enforcement actions. 44 Table of Contents Our business activities may require our employees to travel to and work in countries where there are high security risks, which may result in employee death or injury, repatriation costs or other unforeseen costs. Certain of our contracts may require our employees travel to and work in high-risk countries that are undergoing political, social and economic upheavals resulting from war, civil unrest, criminal activity, acts of terrorism or public health crises. For example, we currently have employees working in high security risk countries such as Afghanistan. As a result, we risk loss of or injury to our employees and may be subject to costs related to employee death or injury, repatriation or other unforeseen circumstances. We may choose or be forced to leave a country with little or no warning due to physical security risks. Our failure to implement and comply with our safety program could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. Our safety program is a fundamental element of our overall approach to risk management, and the implementation of the safety program is a significant issue in our dealings with our clients. We maintain an enterprise-wide group of health and safety professionals to help ensure that the services we provide are delivered safely and in accordance with standard work processes. Unsafe job sites and office environments have the potential to increase employee turnover, increase the cost of a project to our clients, expose us to types and levels of risk that are fundamentally unacceptable, and raise our operating costs. The implementation of our safety processes and procedures are monitored by various agencies and rating bureaus and may be evaluated by certain clients in cases in which safety requirements have been established in our contracts. Our failure to meet these requirements or our failure to properly implement and comply with our safety program could result in reduced profitability or the loss of projects or clients, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We may be precluded from providing certain services due to conflict of interest issues. Many of our clients are concerned about potential or actual conflicts of interest in retaining management consultants. U.S. federal government agencies have formal policies against continuing or awarding contracts that would create actual or potential conflicts of interest with other activities of a contractor. These policies, among other things, may prevent us from bidding for or performing government contracts resulting from or relating to certain work we have performed. In addition, services performed for a commercial or government client may create a conflict of interest that precludes or limits our ability to obtain work from other public or private organizations. We have, on occasion, declined to bid on projects due to conflict of interest issues. If our reports and opinions are not in compliance with professional standards and other regulations, we could be subject to monetary damages and penalties. We issue reports and opinions to clients based on our professional engineering expertise, as well as our other professional credentials. Our reports and opinions may need to comply with professional standards, licensing requirements, securities regulations and other laws and rules governing the performance of professional services in the jurisdiction in which the services are performed. In addition, we could be liable to third parties who use or rely upon our reports or opinions even if we are not contractually bound to those third parties. For example, if we deliver an inaccurate report or one that is not in compliance with the relevant standards, and that report is made available to a third party, we could be subject to third-party liability, resulting in monetary damages and penalties. We may be subject to liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. Our services are subject to numerous U.S. and international environmental protection laws and regulations that are complex and stringent. For example, we must comply with a number of U.S. federal government laws that strictly regulate the handling, removal, treatment, transportation and disposal of toxic and hazardous substances. Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and 45 Table of Contents Liability Act of 1980, as amended ("CERCLA"), and comparable state laws, we may be required to investigate and remediate regulated hazardous materials. CERCLA and comparable state laws typically impose strict, joint and several liabilities without regard to whether a company knew of or caused the release of hazardous substances. The liability for the entire cost of clean-up could be imposed upon any responsible party. Other principal federal environmental, health and safety laws affecting us include, but are not limited to, the Resource Conversation and Recovery Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Clean Air Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act and the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act. Our business operations may also be subject to similar state and international laws relating to environmental protection. Further, past business practices at companies that we have acquired may also expose us to future unknown environmental liabilities. Liabilities related to environmental contamination or human exposure to hazardous substances, or a failure to comply with applicable regulations, could result in substantial costs to us, including clean-up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party claims for property damage or personal injury or cessation of remediation activities. Our continuing work in the areas governed by these laws and regulations exposes us to the risk of substantial liability. Force majeure events, including natural disasters and terrorist actions could negatively impact the economies in which we operate or disrupt our operations, which may affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Force majeure or extraordinary events beyond the control of the contracting parties, such as natural and man-made disasters, as well as terrorist actions, could negatively impact the economies in which we operate by causing the closure of offices, interrupting projects and forcing the relocation of employees. Further, despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. We typically remain obligated to perform our services after a terrorist action or natural disaster unless the contract contains a force majeure clause that relieves us of our contractual obligations in such an extraordinary event. If we are not able to react quickly to force majeure, our operations may be affected significantly, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our competitive position. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary information and other intellectual property. We rely principally on trade secrets to protect much of our intellectual property where we do not believe that patent or copyright protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although our employees are subject to confidentiality obligations, this protection may be inadequate to deter or prevent misappropriation of our confidential information. In addition, we may be unable to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property or otherwise take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. In addition, if we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our trademarks or other proprietary information, our competitive position could be adversely affected. Systems and information technology interruption could adversely impact our ability to operate. We rely heavily on computer, information, and communications technology and systems to operate. From time to time, we experience system interruptions and delays. If we are unable to effectively deploy software and hardware, upgrade our systems and network infrastructure, and take steps to improve and protect our systems, systems operations could be interrupted or delayed. Our computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by natural disasters, telecommunications failures, acts of war or terrorism and similar events or disruptions. In 46 Table of Contents addition, we face the threat of unauthorized system access, computer hackers, computer viruses, malicious code, organized cyber-attacks, and other security breaches and system disruptions. We devote significant resources to the security of our computer systems, but they may still be vulnerable to threats. Anyone who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in system operations. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of system disruptions and security breaches, or to alleviate problems caused by disruptions and breaches. Any of these or other events could cause system interruption, delays, and loss of critical data that could delay or prevent operations, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and could negatively impact our clients. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a merger, takeover or other business combination even if the business combination would have been in the best interests of our stockholders. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, our Board of Directors has the power, without stockholder approval, to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock, which could be used defensively if a takeover is threatened. Our incorporation under Delaware law, the ability of our Board of Directors to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, such as those relating to advance notice of certain stockholder proposals and nominations, could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, even if the business combination would have been in the best interests of our current stockholders. Our stock price could become more volatile and stockholders' investments could lose value. In addition to the macroeconomic factors that have affected the prices of many securities generally, all of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. Our common stock has previously experienced substantial price volatility. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many companies and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. The overall market and the price of our common stock may fluctuate greatly. The trading price of our common stock may be significantly affected by various factors, including: •quarter-to-quarter variations in our financial results, including revenue, profits, days sales outstanding, backlog, and other measures of financial performance or financial condition; •our announcements or our competitors' announcements of significant events, including acquisitions; •resolution of threatened or pending litigation; •changes in investors' and analysts' perceptions of our business or any of our competitors' businesses; •investors' and analysts' assessments of reports prepared or conclusions reached by third parties; •changes in environmental legislation; •investors' perceptions of our performance of services in countries in which the U.S. military is engaged, including Afghanistan; •broader market fluctuations; and •general economic or political conditions. Volatility in the financial markets could cause a decline in our stock price, which could trigger an impairment of the goodwill of individual reporting units that could be material to our consolidated 47 Table of Contents financial statements. A significant drop in the price of our stock could also expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert managements' attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom are granted stock options and shares of restricted stock, the value of which is dependent on the performance of our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 