Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Report and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in the Report. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock Our quarterly and annual revenue, expenses and operating results may fluctuate significantly because of a number of factors, including: · Unanticipated changes in contract performance that may affect profitability, particularly with contracts that are fixed-price or have funding limits; · The seasonality of the spending cycle of our public sector clients, notably the federal government, and the spending patterns of our commercial sector clients; · Budget constraints experienced by our federal, state and local government clients; · Acquisitions or the integration of acquired companies; · Divestiture or discontinuance of operating units; · Employee hiring, utilization and turnover rates; · The number and significance of client contracts commenced and completed during the period; · Creditworthiness and solvency of clients; · The ability of our clients to terminate contracts without penalties; · Delays incurred in connection with a contract; · The size, scope and payment terms of contracts; · Contract negotiations on change orders and collections of related accounts receivable; · The timing of expenses incurred for corporate initiatives; · Reductions in the prices of services offered by our competitors; · Threatened or pending litigation; · Changes in accounting rules; and · General economic or political conditions. Variations in any of these factors could cause significant fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter and could result in net losses. We derive the majority of our revenue from government agencies, and any disruption in government funding or in our relationship with those agencies could adversely affect our business In fiscal 2005, we derived approximately 64.0% of our revenue, net of subcontractor costs, from contracts with federal, state and local government agencies. Federal government agencies are among our most significant clients. These agencies generated 47.5% of our revenue, net of subcontractor costs, in fiscal 2005 as follows: 26.4% from the DoD, 7.2% from the EPA, 4.6% from the DOE, and 9.3% from various other federal agencies. A significant amount of this revenue is derived under multi-year contracts, many of which are appropriated on an annual basis. As a result, at the beginning of a project, the related 18 contract may be only partially funded, and additional funding is normally committed only as appropriations are made in each subsequent year. Our backlog includes only the projects that have funding appropriated. The demand for our government-related services is generally related to the level of government program funding. Accordingly, the success and further development of our business depends, in large part, upon the continued funding of these government programs and upon our ability to obtain contracts under these programs. There are several factors that could materially affect our government contracting business, including the following: · Changes in and delays or cancellations of government programs, requirements or appropriations; · Budget constraints or policy changes resulting in delay or curtailment of expenditures relating to the services we provide; · Re-competes of government contracts; · The timing and amount of tax revenue received by federal, state and local governments; · Curtailment of the use of government contracting firms; · Competing political priorities and changes in the political climate with regard to the funding or operation of the services we provide; · The adoption of new laws or regulations affecting our contracting relationships with the federal, state or local governments; · Unsatisfactory performance on government contracts by us or one of our subcontractors, negative government audits, or other events that may impair our relationship with the federal, state or local governments; · A dispute with or improper activity by any of our subcontractors; and · General economic or political conditions. These and other factors could cause government agencies to delay or cancel programs, to reduce their orders under existing contracts, to exercise their rights to terminate contracts or not to exercise contract options for renewals or extensions. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our revenue or timing of contract payments from these agencies. The loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could significantly disrupt our business We depend upon the efforts and skills of our executive officers, senior managers and consultants. With limited exceptions, we do not have employment agreements with any of these individuals. The loss of the services of any of these key personnel could adversely affect our business. Although we have obtained non-compete agreements from certain principals and stockholders of companies we have acquired, we generally do not have non-compete or employment agreements with key employees who were once equity holders of these companies. Further, many of our non-compete agreements have expired. We do not maintain key-man life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or senior managers. In addition, our consolidation efforts within our civil infrastructure business and our shift to a more centralized structure for the operation of our overall business could result in the loss of key employees. Our future growth and success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified scientists and engineers. The market for these professionals is competitive and we may not be able to attract and retain such professionals. We typically grant these employees stock options and a reduction in our stock price could impact our ability to retain these professionals. 19 Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenue and profits We account for most of our contracts on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Generally, our use of this method results in recognition of revenue and profit ratably over the life of the contract, based on the proportion of costs incurred to date to total costs expected to be incurred. The effect of revisions to revenue and estimated costs, including the achievement of award and other fees, is recorded when the amounts are known and can be reasonably estimated. Such revisions could occur in any period and their effects could be material. The uncertainties inherent in the estimating process make it possible for actual costs to vary from estimates, including reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenue and profit, and such differences could be material. The value of our common stock could continue to be volatile Our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many companies and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. The overall market and the price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate greatly. The trading price of our common stock may be significantly affected by various factors, including: · Quarter-to-quarter variations in our financial results, including revenue, profits, day sales in receivables, backlog, and other measures of financial performance or financial condition; · Announcements by us or our competitors of significant events, including acquisitions; · Resolution of threatened or pending litigation; · Changes in investors’ and analysts’ perceptions of our business or any of our competitors’ businesses; · Investors’ and analysts’ assessments of reports prepared or conclusions reached by third parties; · Changes in environmental legislation; · Investors’ perceptions of our performance of services in countries in which the U.S. military is engaged, including Afghanistan and Iraq; · Broader market fluctuations; and · General economic or political conditions. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom are granted stock options, the value of which is dependent on the performance of our stock price. Our failure to properly manage projects may result in additional costs or claims Our engagements often involve large-scale, complex projects. The quality of our performance on such projects depends in large part upon our ability to manage the relationship with our clients, and to effectively manage the project and deploy appropriate resources, including third-party contractors and our own personnel, in a timely manner. If we miscalculate the resources or time we need to complete a project with capped or fixed fees, or the resources or time we need to meet contractual milestones, our operating results could be adversely affected. Further, any defects or errors, or failures to meet our clients’ expectations, could result in claims for damages against us. Our contracts generally limit our liability for damages that arise from negligent acts, errors, mistakes or omissions in rendering services to our clients. 20 However, we cannot be sure that these contractual provisions will protect us from liability for damages in the event we are sued. Over the past two fiscal years, we have experienced significant project cost overruns on the performance of fixed-price construction work. We have bid on and accepted contracts with unfavorable terms and conditions; performed on projects without properly defined scopes; maintained low levels of productivity and entered into projects that were outside our normal scope of services. Although we have implemented procedures intended to address these issues, no assurance can be given that we will not experience project management issues in the future. There are risks associated with our acquisition strategy that could adversely impact our business and operating results A significant part of our growth strategy is to acquire other companies that complement our lines of business or that broaden our technical capabilities and geographic presence. We expect to continue to acquire companies as an element of our growth strategy; however, our ability to make acquisitions is more restricted under the May 2005 amendments to our Credit Agreement and Note Purchase Agreement. Acquisitions involve certain known and unknown risks that could cause our actual growth or operating results to differ from our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts. For example: · We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to acquire additional companies on acceptable terms; · We compete with others to acquire companies which may result in decreased availability of, or increased price for, suitable acquisition candidates; · We may not be able to obtain the necessary financing, on favorable terms or at all, to finance any of our potential acquisitions; · We may ultimately fail to consummate an acquisition even if we announce that we plan to acquire a company; · We may not be able to retain key employees of an acquired company which could negatively impact that company’s future performance; · We may fail to successfully integrate or manage these acquired companies due to differences in business backgrounds or corporate cultures; · If we fail to successfully integrate any acquired company, our reputation could be damaged. This could make it more difficult to market our services or to acquire additional companies in the future; and · These acquired companies may not perform as we expect and we may fail to realize anticipated revenue and profits. In addition, our acquisition strategy may divert management’s attention away from our primary service offerings, result in the loss of key clients or key employees, and expose us to unanticipated problems or legal liabilities, including responsibility as a successor-in-interest for undisclosed or contingent liabilities of acquired businesses or assets. Further, acquisitions may also cause us to: · Issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ ownership percentage; · Assume liabilities, including environmental liabilities; 21 · Record goodwill that will be subject to impairment testing and potential periodic impairment charges; · Incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; · Lose existing or potential contracts as a result of conflict of interest issues; · Incur large and immediate write-offs; or · Become subject to litigation. Finally, acquired companies that derive a significant portion of their revenue from the federal government and that do not follow the same cost accounting policies and billing practices as we do may be subject to larger cost disallowances for greater periods than we typically encounter. If we fail to determine the existence of unallowable costs and establish appropriate reserves in advance of an acquisition, we may be exposed to material unanticipated liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Downturns in the financial markets and reductions in state and local government budgets could negatively impact the capital spending of our clients and adversely affect our revenue and operating results Downturns in the capital markets can impact the spending patterns of certain clients. Our state and local government clients may face budget deficits that prohibit them from funding new or existing projects. In addition, our existing and potential clients may either postpone entering into new contracts or request price concessions. Difficult financing and economic conditions may cause some of our clients to delay payments for services we perform, thereby increasing the average number of days our receivables are outstanding. Further, these conditions may result in the inability of some of our clients to pay us for services that we have already performed. If we are not able to reduce our costs quickly enough to respond to the revenue decline from these clients, our operating results may be adversely affected. Accordingly, these factors affect our ability to forecast with any accuracy our future revenue and earnings from business areas that may be adversely impacted by market conditions. If we are not able to successfully manage our growth strategy, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected Our expected future growth presents numerous managerial, administrative, operational and other challenges. Our ability to manage the growth of our operations will require us to continue to improve our management information systems and our other internal systems and controls. In addition, our growth will increase our need to attract, develop, motivate and retain both our management and professional employees. The inability of our management to effectively manage our growth or the inability of our employees to achieve anticipated performance could have a material adverse effect on our business. Adverse resolution of an Internal Revenue Service examination process may harm our operating results or financial condition We are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for fiscal years 1997 through 2003. The major issue raised by the IRS relates to the $14.5 million of research and experimentation (R&E) credits that we recognized during the years under examination. The amount of credits recognized for financial statement purposes represents the amount that we estimate will be ultimately realizable. Should the IRS determine that the amount of R&E credits to which we are entitled is more or less than the amount recognized, we will recognize the difference as income tax expense in the period in which the determination is made. 22 If we do not successfully implement our new enterprise resource planning system, our cash flows may be impaired and we may incur further costs to integrate or upgrade our systems In fiscal 2004, we began implementation of a new company-wide enterprise resource planning (ERP) system, principally for accounting and project management. In the event we do not complete the project successfully, we may experience reduced cash flows due to an inability to issue invoices to our clients and collect cash in a timely manner. It is also possible that the cost of completing this project could exceed our current projections and negatively impact future operating results. Our international operations expose us to risks such as foreign currency fluctuations and different business cultures, laws and regulations During fiscal 2005, we derived approximately 0.3% of our revenue, net of subcontractor costs, from international clients. Some contracts with our international clients are denominated in foreign currencies. As such, these contracts contain inherent risks including foreign currency exchange risk and the risk associated with expatriating funds from foreign countries. In addition, certain expenses are also denominated in foreign currencies. If our revenue and expenses denominated in foreign currencies increases, our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations may also increase. We periodically enter into forward exchange contracts to mitigate such foreign currency exposures. In addition, the different business cultures associated with international operations may not be fully appreciated before we sign an agreement, and thereby expose us to risk. Likewise, we need to understand prior to signing a contract international laws and regulations, such as foreign tax and labor laws, and U.S. laws and regulations applicable to companies engaging in business outside of the U.S., such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. For these reasons, pricing and executing international contracts is more difficult and carries more risk than pricing and executing domestic contracts. Our experience has also shown that it is typically more difficult to collect on international work that has been performed and billed. Our revenue from commercial clients is significant, and the credit risks associated with certain of these clients could adversely affect our operating results In fiscal 2005, we derived approximately 35.7% of our revenue, net of subcontractor costs, from commercial clients. We rely upon the financial stability and creditworthiness of these clients. To the extent the credit quality of these clients deteriorates or these clients seek bankruptcy protection, our ability to collect our receivables, and ultimately our operating results, may be adversely affected. Periodically, we have experienced bad debt losses. As a government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations and other public sector liabilities, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or lost business We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations related to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts. For example, we must comply with FAR, the Truth in Negotiations Act, CAS and DoD security regulations, as well as many other rules and regulations. These laws and regulations affect how we do business with our clients and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. A violation of these laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties against us or the termination of our contracts. Moreover, as a federal government contractor, we must maintain our status as a responsible contractor. Failure to do so could lead to suspension or debarment, making us ineligible for federal government contracts and potentially ineligible for state and local government contracts. 23 Most of our government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process, and the inability to complete existing government contracts or win new government contracts over an extended period could harm our operations and adversely affect our future revenue Most of our government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. Some government contracts are awarded to multiple competitors, which increases overall competition and pricing pressure and may require us to make sustained post-award efforts to realize revenue under the government contracts. In addition, government clients can generally terminate or modify their contracts at their convenience. Moreover, even if we are qualified to work on a new government contract, we might not be awarded the contract because of existing government policies designed to protect small businesses and underrepresented minority contractors. The inability to complete existing government contracts or win new government contracts over an extended period could harm our operations and adversely affect our future revenue. A negative government audit could result in an adverse adjustment of our revenue and costs, could impair our reputation, and could result in civil and criminal penalties Government agencies, such as the DCAA, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If the agencies determine through these audits or reviews that we improperly allocated costs to specific contracts, they will not reimburse us for these costs. Therefore, an audit could result in substantial adjustments to our revenue and costs. Further, although we have internal controls in place to oversee our government contracts, no assurance can be given that these controls are sufficient to prevent isolated violations of applicable laws, regulations and standards. If the agencies determine that we or one of our subcontractors engaged in improper conduct, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the government, any of which could materially affect our financial condition. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by our inability to accurately estimate the overall risks, revenue or costs on a contract We generally enter into three principal types of contracts with our clients: fixed-price, time-and-materials, and cost-plus. Under our fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and, consequently, we are exposed to a number of risks. These risks include underestimation of costs, problems with new technologies, unforeseen costs or difficulties, delays beyond our control, price increases for materials, and economic and other changes that may occur during the contract period. Under our time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for other expenses. Profitability on these contracts is driven by billable headcount and cost control. Many of our time-and-materials contracts are subject to maximum contract values and, accordingly, revenue relating to these contracts is recognized as if these contracts were fixed-price contracts. Under our cost-plus contracts, some of which are subject to contract ceiling amounts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and fees, which may be fixed or performance-based. If our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or any applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. Accounting for a contract requires judgments relative to assessing the contract’s estimated risks, revenue and costs, and on making judgments on other technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of overall risk, revenue and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may also adversely 24 affect future period financial performance. If we are unable to accurately estimate the overall revenue or costs on a contract, then we may experience a lower profit or incur a loss on the contract. Our backlog is subject to cancellation and unexpected adjustments, and is an uncertain indicator of future operating results Our backlog as of October 2, 2005 was approximately $900 million. We cannot guarantee that the revenue projected in our backlog will be realized or, if realized, will result in profits. In addition, project cancellations or scope adjustments may occur, from time to time, with respect to contracts reflected in our backlog. For example, certain of our contracts with the federal government and other clients are terminable at the discretion of the client with or without cause. These types of backlog reductions could adversely affect our revenue and margins. Accordingly, our backlog as of any particular date is an uncertain indicator of our future earnings. The consolidation of our client base could adversely impact our business Recently, there has been consolidation within our current and potential commercial client base, particularly in the telecommunications industry. Future consolidation activity could have the effect of reducing the number of our current or potential clients, and lead to an increase in the bargaining power of our remaining clients. This potential increase in bargaining power could create greater competitive pressures and effectively limit the rates we charge for our services. As a result, our revenue and margins could be adversely affected. If our partners fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project, we could be exposed to legal liability, loss of reputation and profit reduction or loss on the project We occasionally enter into subcontracts and other contractual arrangements so that we can jointly bid and perform on a particular project. Success on these joint projects depends in large part on whether our partners fulfill their contractual obligations satisfactorily. If any of our partners fails to satisfactorily perform their contractual obligations as a result of financial or other difficulties, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services in order to make up for our partner’s shortfall. If we are unable to adequately address our partner’s performance issues, then our client could terminate the joint project, exposing us to legal liability, loss of reputation and reduced profit or loss on the project. Our inability to find qualified subcontractors could adversely affect the quality of our service and our ability to perform under certain contracts Under some of our contracts, we depend on the efforts and skills of subcontractors for the performance of certain tasks. Our reliance on subcontractors varies from project to project. In fiscal 2005, subcontractor costs comprised 30.1% of our revenue. The absence of qualified subcontractors with which we have a satisfactory relationship could adversely affect the quality of our service and our ability to perform under some of our contracts. Changes in existing environmental laws, regulations and programs could reduce demand for our environmental services, which could cause our revenue to decline A significant amount of our resource management business is generated either directly or indirectly as a result of existing federal and state laws, regulations and programs related to pollution and environmental protection. Accordingly, a relaxation or repeal of these laws and regulations, or changes in governmental policies regarding the funding, implementation or enforcement of these programs, could result in a decline in demand for environmental services that may have a material adverse effect on our revenue. 25 Our industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete effectively We provide specialized consulting, engineering and technical services in the areas of resource management, infrastructure and communications to a broad range of government and commercial sector clients. The market for our services is highly competitive and we compete with many other firms. These firms range from small regional firms to large international firms. Some of our competitors have achieved substantially more market penetration in certain markets in which we compete. In addition, some of our competitors have substantially more experience, financial resources and/or financial flexibility than we do. We compete for projects and engagements with a number of competitors that can vary from one to 100 firms. Historically, clients have chosen among competing firms based on technical capabilities, the quality and timeliness of the firm’s service, and geographic presence. If competitive pressures force us to make price concessions or otherwise reduce prices for our services, then our revenue and margins will decline and our results from operations would be harmed. Restrictive covenants in our Credit Agreement and Note Purchase Agreement relating to our senior secured notes may restrict our ability to pursue certain business strategies Our Credit Agreement and Note Purchase Agreement relating to our senior secured notes restrict our ability to, among other things: · Incur additional indebtedness; · Create liens securing debt or other encumbrances on our assets; · Make loans or advances; · Pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; · Purchase or redeem our stock; · Repay indebtedness that is junior to indebtedness under our Credit Agreement and Note Purchase Agreement; · Acquire the assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies; and · Sell, lease or otherwise dispose of assets. Our Credit Agreement and Note Purchase Agreement also require that we maintain certain financial ratios, which we may not be able to achieve. We failed to meet these required financial ratios at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2005. We obtained waivers of the technical defaults caused by these failures and amendments to these agreements in May 2005. The covenants in these agreements may impair our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in certain business activities. Refer to Note 7, “Long-Term Obligations,” included under the heading “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders, which is incorporated by reference herein. Our services expose us to significant risks of liability and it may be difficult to obtain or maintain adequate insurance coverage Our services involve significant risks of professional and other liabilities that may substantially exceed the fees we derive from our services. Our business activities could expose us to potential liability under various environmental laws and under workplace health and safety regulations. In addition, we sometimes assume liability by contract under indemnification agreements. We cannot predict the magnitude of such potential liabilities. We obtain insurance from third parties to cover our potential risks and liabilities. It is possible that we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance to meet our needs, may have to pay an excessive amount for 26 the insurance coverage we want, or may not be able to acquire any insurance for certain types of business risks. Our liability for damages due to legal proceedings may harm our operating results or financial condition We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of business. Various legal proceedings are currently pending against us and certain of our subsidiaries alleging, among other things, breach of contract or tort in connection with the performance of professional services. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings with certainty. In some actions, parties are seeking damages that exceed our insurance coverage or for which we are not insured. If we sustain damages that exceed our insurance coverage or that are not covered by insurance, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We may be precluded from providing certain services due to conflict of interest issues Many of our clients are concerned about potential or actual conflicts of interest in retaining management consultants. Federal government agencies have formal policies against continuing or awarding contracts that would create actual or potential conflicts of interest with other activities of a contractor. These policies, among other things, may prevent us from bidding for or performing government contracts resulting from or relating to certain work we have performed. In addition, services performed for a commercial or government client may create a conflict of interest that precludes or limits our ability to obtain work from other public or private organizations. We have, on occasion, declined to bid on projects because of these conflicts of interest issues. Changes in accounting for equity-related compensation could impact the way we use stock-based compensation to attract and retain employees In December 2004, Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued a revision to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (FAS 123R), that requires us to expense the value of employee stock options and similar awards. Under FAS 123R, shared-based payment (SBP) awards result in a cost that will be measured at fair value on the awards’ grant date, based on the estimated number of awards that are expected to vest. Compensation cost for awards that vest would not be reversed if the awards expire without being exercised. We are allowed to select from two alternative transition methods, each of which has different reporting implications. Under the first method, the Modified Prospective Application, FAS 123R applies to new awards and modified awards after the effective date, and to any unvested awards as service is rendered on or after the effective date. Under the second method, the Modified Retrospective Application, FAS 123R can be applied to either all prior years for which SFAS No. 123 was effective or only to prior interim periods in the year of adoption. We plan to adopt FAS 123R using the Modified Prospective Application. For us, the effective date for FAS 123R is the first quarter of fiscal 2006, and FAS 123R will apply to all outstanding and unvested SBP awards at our adoption date. We have completed a preliminary evaluation of the effect of adoption of FAS 123R. Due to the fact that we use stock options as a form of compensation, the adoption of FAS 123R will have an impact of approximately $8 million to $11 million on our results of operations in fiscal 2006 based upon options outstanding as of October 2, 2005. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure will result in additional expenses Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations, and Nasdaq Stock Market rules, are creating additional disclosure and other compliance requirements for us. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a 27 result, we intend to invest appropriate resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the effects of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 disrupted commerce and intensified uncertainty regarding the U.S. economy and other economies. The continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions and create further uncertainties. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer contracts, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 