Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Report and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in the Report. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock Our quarterly and annual revenue, expenses and operating results may fluctuate significantly because of a number of factors, including: · Unanticipated changes in contract performance that may affect profitability, particularly with contracts that are fixed-price or have funding limits; · The seasonality of the spending cycle of our public sector clients, notably the federal government, and the spending patterns of our commercial sector clients; · Budget constraints experienced by our federal, state and local government clients; · Acquisitions or the integration of acquired companies; · Divestiture or discontinuance of operating units; · Employee hiring, utilization and turnover rates; · The number and significance of client contracts commenced and completed during the period; · Creditworthiness and solvency of clients; · The ability of our clients to terminate contracts without penalties; · Delays incurred in connection with a contract; · The size, scope and payment terms of contracts; · Contract negotiations on change orders and collections of related accounts receivable; · The timing of expenses incurred for corporate initiatives; · Reductions in the prices of services offered by our competitors; · Threatened or pending litigation; · The impairment of our goodwill; · Changes in accounting rules; and · General economic or political conditions. Variations in any of these factors could cause significant fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter and could result in net losses. Our failure to properly manage projects may result in additional costs or claims Our engagements often involve large-scale, complex projects. The quality of our performance on such projects depends in large part upon our ability to manage the relationship with our clients, and to effectively manage the project and deploy appropriate resources, including third-party contractors and our own personnel, in a timely manner. If we miscalculate the resources or time we need to complete a project with capped or fixed fees, or the resources or time we need to meet contractual milestones, our operating 17 results could be adversely affected. Further, any defects or errors, or failures to meet our clients’ expectations, could result in claims for damages against us. Our contracts generally limit our liability for damages that arise from negligent acts, errors, mistakes or omissions in rendering services to our clients. However, we cannot be sure that these contractual provisions will protect us from liability for damages in the event we are sued. Prior to fiscal 2006, we experienced significant project cost overruns on the performance of fixed-price construction work, other than that associated with our federal government projects. We have bid on and accepted contracts with unfavorable terms and conditions; performed on projects without properly defined scopes; maintained low levels of productivity and entered into projects that were outside our normal scope of services. Although we have implemented procedures intended to address these issues, including the exit from fixed-price civil infrastructure construction projects, no assurance can be given that we will not experience project management issues in the future. Demand for our services is cyclical and vulnerable to economic downturns. If the economy weakens, then our revenues, profits and our financial condition may deteriorate Demand for our services is cyclical and vulnerable to economic downturns, which may result in clients delaying, curtailing or canceling proposed and existing projects. Our business traditionally lags the overall recovery in the economy; therefore, our business may not recover immediately when the economy improves. If the economy weakens, then our revenues, profits and overall financial condition may deteriorate. Our state and local government clients may face budget deficits that prohibit them from funding new or existing projects. In addition, our existing and potential clients may either postpone entering into new contracts or request price concessions. Difficult financing and economic conditions may cause some of our clients to demand better pricing terms or delay payments for services we perform, thereby increasing the average number of days our receivables are outstanding. Further, these conditions may result in the inability of some of our clients to pay us for services that we have already performed. If we are not able to reduce our costs quickly enough to respond to the revenue decline from these clients, our operating results may be adversely affected. Accordingly, these factors affect our ability to forecast our future revenue and earnings from business areas that may be adversely impacted by market conditions. We derive the majority of our revenue from government agencies, and any disruption in government funding or in our relationship with those agencies could adversely affect our business In fiscal 2006, we derived approximately 64.2% of our revenue, net of subcontractor costs, from contracts with federal, state and local government agencies. Federal government agencies are among our most significant clients. These agencies generated 46.7% of our revenue, net of subcontractor costs, in fiscal 2006 as follows: 26.6% from the DoD, 6.9% from the EPA, 5.7% from the DOE, and 7.5% from various other federal agencies. A significant amount of this revenue is derived under multi-year contracts, many of which are appropriated on an annual basis. As a result, at the beginning of a project, the related contract may be only partially funded, and additional funding is normally committed only as appropriations are made in each subsequent year. Our backlog includes only the projects that have funding appropriated. The demand for our government-related services is generally related to the level of government program funding. Accordingly, the success and further development of our business depends, in large part, upon the continued funding of these government programs and upon our ability to obtain contracts under these programs. There are several factors that could materially affect our government contracting business, including the following: · Changes in and delays or cancellations of government programs, requirements or appropriations; · Budget constraints or policy changes resulting in delay or curtailment of expenditures relating to the services we provide; 18 · Re-competes of government contracts; · The timing and amount of tax revenue received by federal, state and local governments; · Curtailment of the use of government contracting firms; · The increasing preference by government agencies for contracting with small and disadvantaged businesses; · Competing political priorities and changes in the political climate with regard to the funding or operation of the services we provide; · The adoption of new laws or regulations affecting our contracting relationships with the federal, state or local governments; · Unsatisfactory performance on government contracts by us or one of our subcontractors, negative government audits, or other events that may impair our relationship with the federal, state or local governments; · A dispute with or improper activity by any of our subcontractors; and · General economic or political conditions. These and other factors could cause government agencies to delay or cancel programs, to reduce their orders under existing contracts, to exercise their rights to terminate contracts or not to exercise contract options for renewals or extensions. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our revenue or timing of contract payments from these agencies. A significant shift in U.S. defense spending could harm our operations and significantly reduce our future revenues Revenue under contracts with the DoD represented approximately 26.6% of our revenue, net of subcontractor costs, in fiscal 2006, as noted above. While spending authorization for defense-related programs has increased significantly in recent years due to greater homeland security and foreign military commitments, as well as the trend to outsource federal government jobs to the private sector, these spending levels may decrease, remain constant or shift to programs in areas in which we do not currently provide services. In addition, we have experienced an increase in revenue for project management reconstruction services in Iraq in fiscal 2006 compared to prior years. As a result, a significant shift in U.S. defense spending could harm our operations and significantly reduce our future revenues. The loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could significantly disrupt our business As a professional and technical services company, we are labor-intensive and therefore our ability to attract, retain and expand our senior management and our professional and technical staff is an important factor in determining our future success. With limited exceptions, we do not have employment agreements with any of these individuals. The loss of the services of any of these key personnel could adversely affect our business. Although we have obtained non-compete agreements from certain principals and stockholders of companies we have acquired, we generally do not have non-compete or employment agreements with key employees who were once equity holders of these companies. Further, many of our non-compete agreements have expired. We do not maintain key-man life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or senior managers. In addition, our consolidation efforts within our infrastructure business and our shift to a more centralized structure for the operation of our overall business have resulted, and could result further, in the loss of key employees. 19 The market for the qualified scientists and engineers is competitive and we may not be able to attract and retain such professionals. In addition, it may be difficult to attract and retain qualified individuals with the expertise and in the timeframe demanded by our clients. For example, some of our government contracts may require us to employ only individuals who have particular government security clearance levels. In an effort to attract key employees, we often grant them stock options, and a reduction in our stock price could impact our ability to retain these professionals. Our actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our financial statements, which may significantly reduce our profits To prepare financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, management is required to make estimates and assumptions as of the date of the financial statements, which affect the reported values of assets and liabilities and revenues and expenses and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include: · The application of the “percentage-of-completion” method of accounting, and revenue recognition on contracts, changes orders and contract claims; · Provisions for uncollectible receivables and customer claims and recoveries of costs from subcontractors, vendors and others; · Provisions for income taxes and related valuation allowances; · Value of goodwill and recoverability of other intangible assets; · Valuations of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with business combinations; · Valuation of employee benefit plans; and · Accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation and insurance reserves. Our actual results could differ from those estimates, which may significantly reduce our profits. Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenue and profits We account for most of our contracts on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Generally, our use of this method results in recognition of revenue and profit ratably over the life of the contract, based on the proportion of costs incurred to date to total costs expected to be incurred. The effect of revisions to revenue and estimated costs, including the achievement of award and other fees, is recorded when the amounts are known and can be reasonably estimated. Such revisions could occur in any period and their effects could be material. The uncertainties inherent in the estimating process make it possible for actual costs to vary from estimates, including reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenue and profit, and such differences could be material. The value of our common stock could be volatile Our common stock has previously experienced substantial price volatility. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many companies and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. The overall market and the price of our common stock may fluctuate greatly. The trading price of our common stock may be significantly affected by various factors, including: · Quarter-to-quarter variations in our financial results, including revenue, profits, days sales outstanding, backlog, and other measures of financial performance or financial condition; 20 · Our announcements or our competitors’ announcements of significant events, including acquisitions; · Resolution of threatened or pending litigation; · Changes in investors’ and analysts’ perceptions of our business or any of our competitors’ businesses; · Investors’ and analysts’ assessments of reports prepared or conclusions reached by third parties; · Changes in environmental legislation; · Investors’ perceptions of our performance of services in countries in which the U.S. military is engaged, including Iraq and Afghanistan; · Broader market fluctuations; and · General economic or political conditions. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom are granted stock options, the value of which is dependent on the performance of our stock price. There are risks associated with our acquisition strategy that could adversely impact our business and operating results A key part of our growth strategy is to acquire other companies that complement our lines of business or that broaden our technical capabilities and geographic presence. We expect to continue to acquire companies as an element of our growth strategy; however, our ability to make acquisitions is more restricted under the May 2005 amendments to our Credit Agreement and Note Purchase Agreement. Acquisitions involve certain known and unknown risks that could cause our actual growth or operating results to differ from our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts. For example: · We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to acquire additional companies on acceptable terms; · We compete with others to acquire companies which may result in decreased availability of, or increased price for, suitable acquisition candidates; · We may not be able to obtain the necessary financing, on favorable terms or at all, to finance any of our potential acquisitions; · We may ultimately fail to consummate an acquisition even if we announce that we plan to acquire a company; · We may not be able to retain key employees of an acquired company which could negatively impact that company’s future performance; · We may fail to successfully integrate or manage these acquired companies due to differences in business backgrounds or corporate cultures; · If we fail to successfully integrate any acquired company, our reputation could be damaged. This could make it more difficult to market our services or to acquire additional companies in the future; and · These acquired companies may not perform as we expect and we may fail to realize anticipated revenue and profits. 21 In addition, our acquisition strategy may divert management’s attention away from our existing businesses, result in the loss of key clients or key employees, and expose us to unanticipated problems or legal liabilities, including responsibility as a successor-in-interest for undisclosed or contingent liabilities of acquired businesses or assets. Further, acquisitions may also cause us to: · Issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ ownership percentage; · Assume liabilities, including environmental liabilities; · Record goodwill that will be subject to impairment testing and potential impairment charges; · Incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; · Lose existing or potential contracts as a result of conflict of interest issues; · Incur large and immediate write-offs; or · Become subject to litigation. Finally, acquired companies that derive a significant portion of their revenue from the federal government and that do not follow the same cost accounting policies and billing practices as we do may be subject to larger cost disallowances for greater periods than we typically encounter. If we fail to determine the existence of unallowable costs and establish appropriate reserves in advance of an acquisition, we may be exposed to material unanticipated liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are not able to successfully manage our growth strategy, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected Our expected future growth presents numerous managerial, administrative, operational and other challenges. Our ability to manage the growth of our operations will require us to continue to improve our management information systems and our other internal systems and controls. In addition, our growth will increase our need to attract, develop, motivate and retain both our management and professional employees. The inability of our management to effectively manage our growth or the inability of our employees to achieve anticipated performance could have a material adverse effect on our business. Adverse resolution of an Internal Revenue Service examination process may harm our financial results We are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for fiscal years 1997 through 2004. During the third quarter of fiscal 2006, we received a 30-day letter from IRS related to fiscal years 1997 through 2001. We are protesting the position on the letter and expect these issues to go to IRS appeals. One major issue raised by the IRS relates to the research and experimentation (R&E) credits that we claimed during the years under examination. The amount of credits recognized for financial statement purposes represents the amount that we estimate will be ultimately realizable. Should the IRS determine that the amount of R&E credits to which we are entitled is more or less than the amount recognized, we will recognize an adjustment to the income tax accounts in the period in which the determination is made. This may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Another issue raised by the IRS relates to our tax accounting method for revenue recognition. While resolution of this matter may shift the timing of tax payment, as this is a temporary difference, there should be no material impact on our financial results upon resolution of this issue. If we do not successfully implement our new enterprise resource planning system, our cash flows may be impaired and we may incur further costs to integrate or upgrade our systems In fiscal 2004, we began implementation of a new company-wide enterprise resource planning (ERP) system, principally for accounting and project management. During fiscal 2007, we plan to convert several 22 of our large operating units to our ERP system. In the event we do not complete the project successfully, we may experience difficulty in accurately and timely reporting certain revenue and cost data. During the ERP implementation process, we have experienced reduced cash flows due to temporary delays in issuing invoices to our clients, which has adversely affected the timely collection of cash. Further, it is possible that the cost of completing this project could exceed our current projections and negatively impact future operating results. As a government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations and other public sector liabilities, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or lost business We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations related to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts. For example, we must comply with the FAR, the Truth in Negotiations Act, CAS and DoD security regulations, as well as many other rules and regulations. These laws and regulations affect how we do business with our clients and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. A violation of these laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties against us or the termination of our contracts. Moreover, as a federal government contractor, we must maintain our status as a responsible contractor. Failure to do so could lead to suspension or debarment, making us ineligible for federal government contracts and potentially ineligible for state and local government contracts. Most of our government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process, and the inability to complete existing government contracts or win new government contracts over an extended period could harm our operations and adversely affect our future revenue Most of our government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. Some government contracts are awarded to multiple competitors, which increases overall competition and pricing pressure and may require us to make sustained post-award efforts to realize revenue under the government contracts. In addition, government clients can generally terminate or modify their contracts at their convenience. Moreover, even if we are qualified to work on a new government contract, we might not be awarded the contract because of existing government policies designed to protect small businesses and underrepresented minority contractors. The inability to complete existing government contracts or win new government contracts over an extended period could harm our operations and adversely affect our future revenue. A negative government audit could result in an adverse adjustment of our revenue and costs, could impair our reputation, and could result in civil and criminal penalties Government agencies, such as the DCAA, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If the agencies determine through these audits or reviews that we improperly allocated costs to specific contracts, they will not reimburse us for these costs. Therefore, an audit could result in substantial adjustments to our revenue and costs. Further, although we have internal controls in place to oversee our government contracts, no assurance can be given that these controls are sufficient to prevent isolated violations of applicable laws, regulations and standards. If the agencies determine that we or one of our subcontractors engaged in improper conduct, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the government, any of which could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation. 23 Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by our inability to accurately estimate the overall risks, revenue or costs on a contract We generally enter into three principal types of contracts with our clients: fixed-price, time-and-materials, and cost-plus. Under our fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and, consequently, we are exposed to a number of risks. These risks include underestimation of costs, problems with new technologies, unforeseen costs or difficulties, delays beyond our control, price increases for materials, and economic and other changes that may occur during the contract period. Under our time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for other expenses. Profitability on these contracts is driven by billable headcount and cost control. Many of our time-and-materials contracts are subject to maximum contract values and, accordingly, revenue relating to these contracts is recognized as if these contracts were fixed-price contracts. Under our cost-plus contracts, some of which are subject to contract ceiling amounts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and fees, which may be fixed or performance-based. If our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or any applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. Accounting for a contract requires judgments relative to assessing the contract’s estimated risks, revenue and costs, and on making judgments on other technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of overall risk, revenue and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may also adversely affect future period financial performance. If we are unable to accurately estimate the overall revenue or costs on a contract, then we may experience a lower profit or incur a loss on the contract. Our backlog is subject to cancellation and unexpected adjustments, and is an uncertain indicator of future operating results Our backlog as of October 1, 2006 was approximately $1.1 billion. We include in backlog only those contracts for which funding has been provided and work authorizations have been received. We cannot guarantee that the revenue projected in our backlog will be realized or, if realized, will result in profits. In addition, project cancellations or scope adjustments may occur, from time to time, with respect to contracts reflected in our backlog. For example, certain of our contracts with the federal government and other clients are terminable at the discretion of the client with or without cause. These types of backlog reductions could adversely affect our revenue and margins. Accordingly, our backlog as of any particular date is an uncertain indicator of our future earnings. Our international operations expose us to risks such as foreign currency fluctuations and different business cultures, laws and regulations During fiscal 2006, we derived approximately 0.7% of our revenue, net of subcontractor costs, from international clients. Some contracts with our international clients are denominated in foreign currencies. As such, these contracts contain inherent risks including foreign currency exchange risk and the risk associated with expatriating funds from foreign countries. In addition, certain expenses are also denominated in foreign currencies. If our revenue and expenses denominated in foreign currencies increases, our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations may also increase. We periodically enter into forward exchange contracts to mitigate such foreign currency exposures. In addition, the different business cultures associated with international operations may not be fully appreciated before we sign an agreement, and thereby expose us to risk. Likewise, we need to understand prior to signing a contract international laws and regulations, such as foreign tax and labor laws, and U.S. laws and regulations applicable to companies engaging in business outside of the United States, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. For these reasons, pricing and executing international contracts is more difficult and carries more risk than pricing and executing domestic contracts. Our experience has also shown that it is typically more difficult to collect on international work that has been performed and billed. 24 If our co-venturers fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project, we could be exposed to legal liability, loss of reputation and profit reduction or loss on the project We occasionally enter into subcontracts, joint teaming ventures and other contractual arrangements so that we can jointly bid and perform on a particular project. Success on these joint projects depends in large part on whether our co-venturers fulfill their contractual obligations satisfactorily. If any of our co-venturers fails to satisfactorily perform their contractual obligations as a result of financial or other difficulties, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services in order to make up for our co-venturers’ shortfall. If we are unable to adequately address our co-venturers’ performance issues, then our client could terminate the joint project, exposing us to legal liability, loss of reputation and reduced profit or loss on the project. We guaranteed performance for these projects on behalf of a third-party company under a U.S. Small Business Administration program, and that company was unable to complete the projects on schedule and budget. As a result, we recorded loss reserves for the completion of certain fixed-price projects in the second quarter of fiscal 2006. Our future revenues depend on our ability to consistently bid and win new contracts and renew existing contracts and, therefore, our failure to effectively obtain future contracts could adversely affect our profitability Our future revenues and overall results of operations require us to successfully bid on new contracts and renew existing contracts. Contract proposals and negotiations are complex and frequently involve a lengthy bidding and selection process, which is affected by a number of factors including market conditions, financing arrangements and required governmental approvals. For example, a client may require us to provide a bond or letter of credit to protect the client should we fail to perform under the terms of the contract. If negative market conditions arise, or if we fail to secure adequate financial arrangements or the required governmental approval, we may not be able to pursue particular projects, which could adversely affect our profitability. Our inability to find qualified subcontractors could adversely affect the quality of our service and our ability to perform under certain contracts Under some of our contracts, we depend on the efforts and skills of subcontractors for the performance of certain tasks. Our reliance on subcontractors varies from project to project. In fiscal 2006, subcontractor costs comprised 32.2% of our revenue. The absence of qualified subcontractors with whom we have a satisfactory relationship could adversely affect the quality of our service and our ability to perform under some of our contracts. Changes in existing environmental laws, regulations and programs could reduce demand for our environmental services, which could cause our revenue to decline A significant amount of our resource management business is generated either directly or indirectly as a result of existing federal and state laws, regulations and programs related to pollution and environmental protection. Accordingly, a relaxation or repeal of these laws and regulations, or changes in governmental policies regarding the funding, implementation or enforcement of these programs, could result in a decline in demand for environmental services that may have a material adverse effect on our revenue. The consolidation of our client base could adversely impact our business Recently, there has been consolidation within our current and potential commercial client base, particularly in the telecommunications industry. Future consolidation activity could have the effect of reducing the number of our current or potential clients, and lead to an increase in the bargaining power of our remaining clients. This potential increase in bargaining power could create greater competitive pressures and effectively limit the rates we charge for our services. As a result, our revenue and margins could be adversely affected. 25 Our revenue from commercial clients is significant, and the credit risks associated with certain of these clients could adversely affect our operating results In fiscal 2006, we derived approximately 35.1% of our revenue, net of subcontractor costs, from commercial clients. We rely upon the financial stability and creditworthiness of these clients. To the extent the credit quality of these clients deteriorates or these clients seek bankruptcy protection, our ability to collect our receivables, and ultimately our operating results, may be adversely affected. Periodically, we have experienced bad debt losses. Our industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete effectively Our industry is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. Our competitors are numerous, ranging from small private firms to multi-billion dollar public companies. In addition, the technical and professional aspects of our services generally do not require large upfront capital expenditures and provide limited barriers against new competitors. Some of our competitors have achieved greater market penetration in some of the markets in which we compete, and have substantially more financial resources and/or financial flexibility than we do. As a result of the number of competitors in our industry, our clients may select one of our competitors on a project due to competitive pricing or a specific skill set. These competitive forces could force us to make price concessions or otherwise reduce prices for our services, thereby causing a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Restrictive covenants in our Credit Agreement and Note Purchase Agreement relating to our senior secured notes may restrict our ability to pursue certain business strategies Our Credit Agreement and Note Purchase Agreement relating to our senior secured notes restrict our ability to, among other things: · Incur additional indebtedness; · Create liens securing debt or other encumbrances on our assets; · Make loans or advances; · Pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; · Purchase or redeem our stock; · Repay indebtedness that is junior to indebtedness under our Credit Agreement and Note Purchase Agreement; · Acquire the assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies; and · Sell, lease or otherwise dispose of assets. Our Credit Agreement and Note Purchase Agreement also require that we maintain certain financial ratios, which we may not be able to achieve. We failed to meet these required financial ratios at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2005. We obtained waivers of the technical defaults caused by these failures and amendments to these agreements in May 2005. The covenants in these agreements may impair our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in certain business activities. Refer to Note 7, “Long-Term Obligations,” included under the heading “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in our 2006 Annual Report to Stockholders, which is incorporated by reference. Our services expose us to significant risks of liability and it may be difficult to obtain or maintain adequate insurance coverage Our services involve significant risks of professional and other liabilities that may substantially exceed the fees we derive from our services. Our business activities could expose us to potential liability under various environmental laws and under workplace health and safety regulations. In addition, we sometimes 26 assume liability by contract under indemnification agreements. We cannot predict the magnitude of such potential liabilities. We obtain insurance from third parties to cover our potential risks and liabilities. It is possible that we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance to meet our needs, may have to pay an excessive amount for the insurance coverage we want, or may not be able to acquire any insurance for certain types of business risks. Our liability for damages due to legal proceedings may harm our operating results or financial condition We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of business. Various legal proceedings are currently pending against us and certain of our subsidiaries alleging, among other things, breach of contract or tort in connection with the performance of professional services. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings with certainty. In some actions, parties are seeking damages that exceed our insurance coverage or for which we are not insured. If we sustain damages that exceed our insurance coverage or that are not covered by insurance, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our business activities may require our employees to travel to and work in high security risk countries, which may result in employee death or injury, repatriation costs or other unforeseen costs. Certain of our contracts may require our employees travel to and work in high security risk countries that are undergoing political, social and economic upheavals resulting in war, civil unrest, criminal activity or acts of terrorism. For example, we currently have employees working in Afghanistan and Iraq. As a result, we may be subject to costs related to employee death or injury, repatriation or other unforeseen circumstances. Our failure to implement and comply with our safety program could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition Our safety program is a fundamental element of our overall approach to risk management, and the implementation of the safety program is a significant issue in our dealings with our clients. We maintain an enterprise-wide group of health and safety professionals to help ensure that the services we provide are delivered safely and in accordance with standard work processes. Unsafe job sites and office environments have the potential to increase employee turnover, increase the cost of a project to our clients, expose us to types and levels of risk that are fundamentally unacceptable, and raise our operating costs. The implementation of our safety processes and procedures are monitored by various agencies and rating bureaus, and may be evaluated by certain clients in cases in which safety requirements have been established in our contracts. If we fail to meet these requirements, or to properly implement and comply with our safety program, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our inability to obtain adequate bonding could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and business prospects Many of our clients require bid and performance and surety bonds. These bonds indemnify the client should we fail to perform our obligations under the contract. If a bond is required for a particular project and we are unable to obtain an appropriate bond, we cannot pursue that project. In some instances, we are required to co-venture with a small or disadvantaged business to pursue certain federal or state contracts. In connection with these ventures, we are sometimes required to utilize our bonding capacity to cover all of the payment and performance obligations under the contract with the client. We have a bonding facility but, as is typically the case, the issuance of bonds under that facility is at the surety’s sole discretion. Moreover, due to events that can negatively affect the insurance and bonding markets, bonding may be more difficult to obtain or may only be available at significant additional cost. There can be no assurance 27 that bonds will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms. Our inability to obtain adequate bonding and, as a result, to bid on new work could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and business prospects. We may be precluded from providing certain services due to conflict of interest issues Many of our clients are concerned about potential or actual conflicts of interest in retaining management consultants. Federal government agencies have formal policies against continuing or awarding contracts that would create actual or potential conflicts of interest with other activities of a contractor. These policies, among other things, may prevent us from bidding for or performing government contracts resulting from or relating to certain work we have performed. In addition, services performed for a commercial or government client may create a conflict of interest that precludes or limits our ability to obtain work from other public or private organizations. We have, on occasion, declined to bid on projects due to the conflict of interest issues. Changes in accounting for equity-related compensation affects the way we use stock-based compensation to attract and retain employees On October 3, 2005, we adopted Statement of Financial Account Standards (SFAS) No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (SFAS 123R), which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all stock-based compensation based on estimated fair values. As a result, our operating results for the fiscal 2006 contain, and our operating results for future periods will contain, a charge for stock-based compensation related to employee stock options, restricted stock and our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The application of SFAS 123R requires the use of an option-pricing model to determine the fair value of share-based payment awards. This determination of fair value is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, our expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. Option-pricing models were developed for use in estimating the value of traded options that have no vesting or hedging restrictions and are fully transferable. Because our employee stock options have certain characteristics that are significantly different from traded options, and because changes in the subjective assumptions can materially affect the estimated value, in management’s opinion the existing valuation models may not provide an accurate measure of the fair value of our employee stock options. As a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R, our earnings for fiscal 2006 were lower than they would have been if we were not required to adopt SFAS 123R. The adoption of SFAS 123R had a pre-tax amount of $4.8 million impact on our results of operations in fiscal 2006. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure will result in additional expenses Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, and the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC rules, are creating additional disclosure and other compliance requirements for us. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest appropriate resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Force majeure events, including natural disasters and terrorists’ actions could negatively impact the economies in which we operate or disrupt our operations, which may affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows Force majeure events, including natural disasters, such as Hurricane Katrina that affected the Gulf Coast in August 2005, and terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred in New York and Washington 28 D.C. on September 11, 2001, could negatively impact the economies in which we operate by causing the closure of offices, interrupting active client projects and forcing the relocation of employees. Further, despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. We typically remain obligated to perform our services after a terrorist action or natural disaster unless the contract contains a force majeure clause that relieves us of our contractual obligations in such an extraordinary event. If we are not able to react quickly to force majeure, our operations may be affected significantly, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 