Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Our operating results may be adversely impacted by worldwide political and economic uncertainties and specific conditions in the markets we address. General worldwide economic conditions have experienced a downturn due to the lack of available credit, slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, and adverse business conditions. These conditions make it extremely difficult for our clients and our vendors to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could cause businesses to slow spending on services, and they have also made it very difficult for us to predict the short-term and long-term impacts on our business. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery worldwide or in our industry. If the economy or markets in which we operate deteriorate from the level experienced in fiscal 2010, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our annual revenue, expenses and operating results may fluctuate significantly, which may adversely affect our stock price. Our annual revenue, expenses and operating results may fluctuate significantly because of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment. These factors include: •General economic or political conditions; •Unanticipated changes in contract performance that may affect profitability, particularly with contracts that are fixed-price or have funding limits; •Seasonality of the spending cycle of our public sector clients, notably the U.S. federal government, the spending patterns of our commercial sector clients, and weather conditions; •Budget constraints experienced by our federal, state and local government clients; •Integration of acquired companies; •Changes in contingent consideration related to acquisition earn-outs; •Divestiture or discontinuance of operating units; •Employee hiring, utilization and turnover rates; •Loss of key employees; •The number and significance of client contracts commenced and completed during a quarter; •Creditworthiness and solvency of clients; •The ability of our clients to terminate contracts without penalties; •Delays incurred in connection with a contract; •The size, scope and payment terms of contracts; •Contract negotiations on change orders and collections of related accounts receivable; •The timing of expenses incurred for corporate initiatives; 28 Table of Contents •Reductions in the prices of services offered by our competitors; •Threatened or pending litigation; •Legislative and regulatory enforcement policy changes that may affect demand for our services; •The impairment of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets; •The fluctuation of a foreign currency exchange rate; •Stock-based compensation expense; •Actual events, circumstances, outcomes and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions and estimates used in determining the value of certain assets (including the amounts of related valuation allowances), liabilities and other items reflected in our consolidated financial statements; •How well we execute our strategy and operating plans; and •Changes in tax laws or regulations or accounting rules. As a consequence, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition that could adversely affect our stock price. Demand from our state and local government and commercial clients is cyclical and vulnerable to economic downturns. If the economy remains weak or client spending declines further, then our revenue, profits and our financial condition may deteriorate. Demand for services from our state and local government and commercial clients is cyclical and vulnerable to economic downturns, which may result in clients delaying, curtailing or canceling proposed and existing projects. Our business traditionally lags the overall recovery in the economy; therefore, our business may not recover immediately when the economy improves. If the economy remains weak or client spending declines further, then our revenue, profits and overall financial condition may deteriorate. Our state and local government clients may face budget deficits that prohibit them from funding new or existing projects. In addition, our existing and potential clients may either postpone entering into new contracts or request price concessions. Difficult financing and economic conditions may cause some of our clients to demand better pricing terms or delay payments for services we perform, thereby increasing the average number of days our receivables are outstanding and the potential of increased credit losses of uncollectible invoices. Further, these conditions may result in the inability of some of our clients to pay us for services that we have already performed. If we are not able to reduce our costs quickly enough to respond to the revenue decline from these clients, our operating results may be adversely affected. Accordingly, these factors affect our ability to forecast our future revenue and earnings from business areas that may be adversely impacted by market conditions. Our revenue from commercial clients is significant, and the credit risks associated with certain of these clients could adversely affect our operating results. In fiscal 2010, we generated 23.8% of our revenue from commercial clients. Due to continuing weakness in general economic conditions, our commercial business may be at risk as we rely upon the financial stability and creditworthiness of our clients. To the extent the credit quality of these clients deteriorates or these clients seek bankruptcy protection, our ability to collect our receivables, and ultimately our operating results, may be adversely affected. 29 Table of Contents We derive a majority of our revenue from government agencies, and any disruption in government funding or in our relationship with those agencies could adversely affect our business. In fiscal 2010, we generated 66.7% of our revenue from contracts with U.S. federal, state and local government agencies. U.S. federal government agencies are among our most significant clients. We generated 51.9% of our revenue for fiscal 2010 from the following agencies: 28.6% from DoD agencies, 11.4% from USAID and 11.9% from other U.S. federal government agencies. A significant amount of this revenue is derived under multi-year contracts, many of which are appropriated on an annual basis. As a result, at the beginning of a project, the related contract may be only partially funded, and additional funding is normally committed only as appropriations are made in each subsequent year. These appropriations, and the timing of payment of appropriated amounts, may be influenced by numerous factors as noted below. Our backlog includes only the projects that have funding appropriated. The demand for our government-related services is generally driven by the level of government program funding. Accordingly, the success and further development of our business depends, in large part, upon the continued funding of these government programs, and upon our ability to obtain contracts and perform well under these programs. There are several factors that could materially affect our government contracting business, including the following: •Changes in and delays or cancellations of government programs, requirements or appropriations; •Budget constraints or policy changes resulting in delay or curtailment of expenditures related to the services we provide; •Re-competes of government contracts; •The timing and amount of tax revenue received by federal, state and local governments, and the overall level of government expenditures; •Curtailment in the use of government contracting firms; •Delays associated with insufficient numbers of government staff to oversee contracts; •The increasing preference by government agencies for contracting with small and disadvantaged businesses; •Competing political priorities and changes in the political climate with regard to the funding or operation of the services we provide; •The adoption of new laws or regulations affecting our contracting relationships with the federal, state or local governments; •Unsatisfactory performance on government contracts by us or one of our subcontractors, negative government audits, or other events that may impair our relationship with the federal, state or local governments; •A dispute with or improper activity by any of our subcontractors; and •General economic or political conditions. These and other factors could cause government agencies to delay or cancel programs, to reduce their orders under existing contracts, to exercise their rights to terminate contracts or not to exercise contract options for renewals or extensions. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our revenue or timing of contract payments from these agencies. 30 Table of Contents A significant shift in U.S. defense spending could harm our operations and significantly reduce our profits and revenue. In fiscal 2010, we generated 28.6% of our revenue from the DoD agencies. We continued to experience a revenue decline due to the completion of our Iraq-related contracts, largely offset by BRAC and other domestic programs with the DoD agencies. Past increases in spending for defense-related programs and outsourcing of U.S. federal government jobs to the private sector are not expected to be sustained on a long-term basis. Future levels of expenditures and authorizations for defense-related programs may decrease, remain constant or shift to other programs in areas in which we do not currently provide services. As a result, a general decline in U.S. defense spending or a change in budgetary priorities could reduce our profits and revenue. A delay in the completion of the budget process of the U.S. government could delay procurement of our services and have an adverse effect on our future revenue. When the U.S. government does not complete its budget process before its fiscal year-end on September 30, government operations are typically funded by means of a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the U.S. government to continue to operate but does not authorize new spending initiatives. When the U.S. government operates under a continuing resolution, government agencies may delay the procurement of services, which could reduce our future revenue. As a government contractor, we must comply with various procurement laws and regulations and are subject to regular government audits; a violation of any of these laws and regulations or the failure to pass a government audit could result in sanctions, contract termination, forfeiture of profit, harm to our reputation or loss of our status as an eligible government contractor and could reduce our profits and revenue. We must comply with and are affected by U.S. federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts. For example, we must comply with FAR, the Truth in Negotiations Act, CAS, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 ("ARRA"), the Services Contract Act and DoD security regulations, as well as many other rules and regulations. In addition, we must also comply with other government regulations related to employment practices, environmental protection, health and safety, tax, accounting and anti-fraud measures, as well as many others regulations in order to maintain our government contractor status. These laws and regulations affect how we do business with our clients and, in some instances, impose additional costs on our business operations. Although we take precautions to prevent and deter fraud, misconduct and non-compliance, we face the risk that our employees or outside partners may engage in misconduct, fraud or other improper activities. Government agencies, such as the DCAA, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These government agencies review and audit a government contractor's performance under its contracts and cost structure, and evaluate compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. In addition, during the course of its audits, the DCAA may question our incurred project costs. If the DCAA believes we have accounted for such costs in a manner inconsistent with the requirements for FAR or CAS, the DCAA auditor may recommend to our U.S. government corporate administrative contracting officer to disallow such costs. Historically, we have not experienced significant disallowed costs as a result of government audits. However, we can provide no assurance that the DCAA or other government audits will not result in material disallowance for incurred costs in the future. In addition, government contracts are subject to a variety of other requirements relating to the formation, administration, performance and accounting for these contracts. We may also be subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government under the Federal Civil False Claims Act, which could include claims for treble damages. Government contract violations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties or sanctions, contract termination, forfeiture of profit and/or suspension of payment, any of which could make us lose our status as an eligible government contractor. We could also suffer serious harm to our 31 Table of Contents reputation. Any interruption or termination of our government contractor status could reduce our profits and revenue significantly. Our inability to win or renew government contracts during regulated procurement processes could harm our operations and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Government contracts are awarded through a regulated procurement process. The U.S. federal government has increasingly relied upon multi-year contracts with pre-established terms and conditions, such as indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity ("IDIQ") contracts, which generally require those contractors who have previously been awarded the IDIQ to engage in an additional competitive bidding process before a task order is issued. The increased competition, in turn, may require us to make sustained efforts to reduce costs in order to realize revenue and profits under government contracts. If we are not successful in reducing the amount of costs we incur, our profitability on government contracts will be negatively impacted. The U.S. federal government has also increased its use of IDIQs in which the client qualifies multiple contractors for a specific program and then awards specific task orders or projects among the qualified contractors. As a result, new work awards tend to be smaller and of shorter duration, since the orders represent individual tasks rather than large, programmatic assignments. In addition, the U.S. government has announced its intention to scale back outsourcing of services in favor of "insourcing" jobs to its employees, which could reduce our revenue. Moreover, even if we are qualified to work on a government contract, we may not be awarded the contract because of existing government policies designed to protect small businesses and underrepresented minority contractors. Our inability to win or renew government contracts during regulated procurement processes could harm our operations and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Each year, client funding for some of our government contracts may rely on government appropriations or public-supported financing. If adequate public funding is delayed or is not available, then our profits and revenue could decline. Each year, client funding for some of our government contracts may directly or indirectly rely on government appropriations or public-supported financing such as the ARRA. However, ARRA-funded contracts have not been awarded for environmental projects as quickly as we had expected, and it is possible that ARRA funding will never be allocated to projects that represent opportunities for us to the extent that we anticipate, if at all. Legislatures may appropriate funds for a given project on a year-by-year basis, even though the project may take more than one year to perform. In addition, public-supported financing such as state and local municipal bonds may be only partially raised to support existing projects. Public funds and the timing of payment of these funds may be influenced by, among other things, the state of the economy, competing political priorities, curtailments in the use of government contracting firms, increases in raw material costs, delays associated with insufficient numbers of government staff to oversee contracts, budget constraints, the timing and amount of tax receipts and the overall level of government expenditures. If adequate public funding is not available or is delayed, then our profits and revenue could decline. Our government contracts may give government agencies the right to modify, delay, curtail, renegotiate or terminate existing contracts at their convenience at any time prior to their completion, and if we do not replace these contracts, we may suffer a decline in our profits and revenue. Government projects in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor may extend for several years. Generally, government contracts include the right to modify, delay, curtail, renegotiate or terminate contracts and subcontracts at the government's convenience any time prior to their completion. Any decision by a government client to modify, delay, curtail, renegotiate or terminate our contracts at their convenience may result in a decline in our profits and revenue. 32 Table of Contents If we fail to complete a project in a timely manner, miss a required performance standard or otherwise fail to adequately perform on a project, then we may incur a loss on that project, which may reduce or eliminate our overall profitability. Our engagements often involve large-scale, complex projects. The quality of our performance on such projects depends in large part upon our ability to manage the relationship with our clients and our ability to effectively manage the project and deploy appropriate resources, including third-party contractors and our own personnel, in a timely manner. We may commit to a client that we will complete a project by a scheduled date. We may also commit that a project, when completed, will achieve specified performance standards. If the project is not completed by the scheduled date or fails to meet required performance standards, we may either incur significant additional costs or be held responsible for the costs incurred by the client to rectify damages due to late completion or failure to achieve the required performance standards. The uncertainty of the timing of a project can present difficulties in planning the amount of personnel needed for the project. If the project is delayed or canceled, we may bear the cost of an underutilized workforce that was dedicated to fulfilling the project. In addition, performance of projects can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including unavoidable delays from government inaction, public opposition, inability to obtain financing, weather conditions, unavailability of vendor materials, changes in the project scope of services requested by our clients, industrial accidents, environmental hazards, labor disruptions and other factors. To the extent these events occur, the total costs of the project could exceed our estimates and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, incur a loss on a project, which may reduce or eliminate our overall profitability. Further, any defects or errors, or failures to meet our clients' expectations, could result in claims for damages against us. Our contracts generally limit our liability for damages that arise from negligent acts, errors, mistakes or omissions in rendering services to our clients. However, we cannot be sure that these contractual provisions will protect us from liability for damages in the event we are sued. The loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could significantly disrupt our business. As primarily a professional and technical services company, we are labor-intensive and, therefore, our ability to attract, retain and expand our senior management and our professional and technical staff is an important factor in determining our future success. With limited exceptions, we do not have employment agreements with any of these individuals. The loss of the services of any of these key personnel could adversely affect our business. Although we have obtained non-compete agreements from certain principals and stockholders of companies we have acquired, we generally do not have non-compete or employment agreements with key employees who were once equity holders of these companies. Further, many of our non-compete agreements have expired. We do not maintain key-man life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or senior managers. The market for qualified scientists and engineers is competitive and we may not be able to attract and retain such professionals. In addition, it may be difficult to attract and retain qualified individuals in the timeframe demanded by our clients. For example, some of our government contracts may require us to employ only individuals who have particular government security clearance levels. In an effort to attract key employees, we often grant them stock options, and a reduction in our stock price could impact our ability to retain these professionals. Our failure to attract and retain key individuals could impair our ability to provide services to our clients and conduct our business effectively. Our actual business and financial results could differ from the estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our financial statements, which may significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. To prepare financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") in the United States, management is required to make estimates and assumptions as of the 33 Table of Contents date of the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, as well as disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. For example, we recognize revenue over the life of a contract based on the proportion of costs incurred to date compared to the total costs estimated to be incurred for the entire project. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include: •The application of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting and revenue recognition on contracts, change orders and contract claims; •Provisions for uncollectible receivables and client claims and recoveries of costs from subcontractors, vendors and others; •Provisions for income taxes, research and experimentation credits ("R&E credits") and related valuation allowances; •Value of goodwill and recoverability of other intangible assets; •Valuations of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with business combinations; •Estimated earn-out payments due in connection with business combinations; •Valuation of employee benefit plans; •Valuation of stock-based compensation expense; and •Accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation and insurance reserves. Our actual business and financial results could differ from those estimates, which may significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Our profitability could suffer if we are not able to maintain adequate utilization of our workforce. The cost of providing our services, including the extent to which we utilize our workforce, affects our profitability. The rate at which we utilize our workforce is affected by a number of factors, including: •Our ability to transition employees from completed projects to new assignments and to hire and assimilate new employees; •Our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforces; •Our ability to manage attrition; •Our need to devote time and resources to training, business development, professional development and other non-chargeable activities; and •Our ability to match the skill sets of our employees to the needs of the marketplace. If we over-utilize our workforce, our employees may become disengaged, which will impact employee attrition. If we under-utilize our workforce, our profit margin and profitability could suffer. Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of revenue recognition could result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenue and profits. We account for most of our contracts on the percentage-of-completion method of revenue recognition. Generally, our use of this method results in recognition of revenue and profit ratably over the life of the contract, based on the proportion of costs incurred to date to total costs expected to be incurred for the entire project. The effects of revisions to revenue and estimated costs, including the achievement of award fees as well as the impact of change orders and claims, are recorded when the 34 Table of Contents amounts are known and can be reasonably estimated. Such revisions could occur in any period and their effects could be material. Although we have historically made reasonably reliable estimates of the progress towards completion of long-term contracts, the uncertainties inherent in the estimating process make it possible for actual costs to vary materially from estimates, including reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenue and profit. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by our inability to accurately estimate the overall risks, revenue or costs on a contract. It is important for us to accurately estimate and control our contract costs so that we can maintain positive operating margins and profitability. We generally enter into three principal types of contracts with our clients: fixed-price, time-and-materials and cost-plus. Under our fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and, consequently, we are exposed to a number of risks. These risks include underestimation of costs, problems with new technologies, unforeseen costs or difficulties, delays beyond our control, price increases for materials, and economic and other changes that may occur during the contract period. Consequently, we realize a profit on fixed-price contracts only if we can control our costs and prevent cost over-runs on our contracts. Under our time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and also paid for other expenses. Profitability on these contracts is driven by billable headcount and cost control. Many of our time-and-materials contracts are subject to maximum contract values and, accordingly, revenue relating to these contracts is recognized as if these contracts were fixed-price contracts. Under our cost-plus contracts, some of which are subject to contract ceiling amounts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and fees, which may be fixed or performance-based. If our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or any applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all of the costs we incur. Profitability on our contracts is driven by billable headcount and our ability to manage our subcontractors, vendors and material suppliers. If we are unable to accurately estimate and manage our costs, we may incur losses on our contracts, which could decrease our operating margins and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Certain of our contracts require us to satisfy specific design, engineering, procurement or construction milestones in order to receive payment for the work completed or equipment or supplies procured prior to achievement of the applicable milestone. As a result, under these types of arrangements, we may incur significant costs or perform significant amounts of services prior to receipt of payment. If a customer determines not to proceed with the completion of the project or if the customer defaults on its payment obligations, we may face difficulties in collecting payment of amounts due to us for the costs previously incurred or for the amounts previously expended to purchase equipment or supplies. Accounting for a contract requires judgments relative to assessing the contract's estimated risks, revenue, costs and other technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of overall risk, revenue and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may also adversely affect future period financial performance. If we are unable to accurately estimate the overall revenue or costs on a contract, then we may experience a lower profit or incur a loss on the contract. Our failure to win new contracts and renew existing contracts with private and public sector clients could adversely affect our profitability. Our business depends on our ability to win new contracts and renew existing contracts with private and public sector clients. Contract proposals and negotiations are complex and frequently involve a lengthy bidding and selection process, which is affected by a number of factors. These factors include 35 Table of Contents market conditions, financing arrangements and required governmental approvals. For example, a client may require us to provide a bond or letter of credit to protect the client should we fail to perform under the terms of the contract. If negative market conditions arise, or if we fail to secure adequate financial arrangements or the required government approval, we may not be able to pursue particular projects, which could adversely affect our profitability. We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions that could disrupt our operations and adversely impact our business and operating results. Our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions could impede us from realizing all of the benefits of the acquisitions, which could weaken our results of operations. A key part of our growth strategy is to acquire other companies that complement our lines of business or that broaden our technical capabilities and geographic presence. We expect to continue to acquire companies as an element of our growth strategy; however, our ability to make acquisitions is restricted under our credit agreement. Acquisitions involve certain known and unknown risks that could cause our actual growth or operating results to differ from our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts. For example: •We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to acquire additional companies on acceptable terms; •We are pursuing international acquisitions, which inherently pose more risk than domestic acquisitions; •We compete with others to acquire companies, which may result in decreased availability of, or increased price for, suitable acquisition candidates; •We may not be able to obtain the necessary financing, on favorable terms or at all, to finance any of our potential acquisitions; •We may ultimately fail to consummate an acquisition even if we announce that we plan to acquire a company; and •Acquired companies may not perform as we expect, and we may fail to realize anticipated revenue and profits. In addition, our acquisition strategy may divert management's attention away from our existing businesses, resulting in the loss of key clients or key employees, and expose us to unanticipated problems or legal liabilities, including responsibility as a successor-in-interest for undisclosed or contingent liabilities of acquired businesses or assets. Our inability to successfully integrate future acquisitions could impede us from realizing all of the benefits of those acquisitions and could severely weaken our business operations. The integration process may disrupt our business and, if implemented ineffectively, may preclude realization of the full benefits expected by us and could harm our results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of the combining companies may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, and competitive responses, and may cause our stock price to decline. The difficulties of integrating an acquisition include, among others: •Unanticipated issues in integration information, communications and other systems; •Unanticipated incompatibility of logistics, marketing and administration methods; •Maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees; •Integrating the business cultures of both companies; •Preserving important strategic customer relationships; 36 Table of Contents •Consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations; and •Coordinating geographically separate organizations. In addition, even if the operations of an acquisition are integrated successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of the acquisition, including the synergies, cost savings or growth opportunities that we expect. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Further, acquisitions may also cause us to: •Issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders' ownership percentage; •Use a substantial portion of our cash resources; •Increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition; •Assume liabilities, including environmental liabilities, for which we do not have indemnification from the former owners. Further, indemnification obligations may be subject to dispute or concerns regarding the creditworthiness of the former owners; •Record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential impairment charges; •Experience volatility in earnings due to changes in contingent consideration related to acquisition earn-out liability estimates; •Incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; •Lose existing or potential contracts as a result of conflict of interest issues; •Incur large and immediate write-offs; or •Become subject to litigation. Finally, acquired companies that derive a significant portion of their revenue from the U.S. federal government and that do not follow the same cost accounting policies and billing practices that we follow may be subject to larger cost disallowances for greater periods than we typically encounter. If we fail to determine the existence of unallowable costs and do not establish appropriate reserves in advance of an acquisition, we may be exposed to material unanticipated liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, then our profits may be significantly reduced. Because we have historically acquired a significant number of companies, goodwill and other intangible assets have represented a substantial portion of our assets. As of October 3, 2010, our goodwill was $394.4 million and other intangible assets were $46.0 million. We are required to perform a goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment test for potential impairment at least on an annual basis. The goodwill impairment test requires us to determine the fair value of our reporting units, which are the components one level below our four reportable segments. In determining fair value, we make significant judgments and estimates, including assumptions about our strategic plans with regard to our operations. We also analyze current economic indicators and market valuations to help determine fair value. To the extent economic conditions that would impact the future operations of our reporting units change, our goodwill may be deemed to be impaired, and we would be required to record a non-cash charge that could result in a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 37 Table of Contents If we are not able to successfully manage our growth strategy, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our expected future growth presents numerous managerial, administrative, operational and other challenges. Our ability to manage the growth of our operations will require us to continue to improve our management information systems and our other internal systems and controls. In addition, our growth will increase our need to attract, develop, motivate and retain both our management and professional employees. The inability of our management to effectively manage our growth or the inability of our employees to achieve anticipated performance could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our backlog is subject to cancellation and unexpected adjustments, and is an uncertain indicator of future operating results. Our backlog as of October 3, 2010 was $1.9 billion. We include in backlog only those contracts for which funding has been provided and work authorizations have been received. We cannot guarantee that the revenue projected in our backlog will be realized or, if realized, will result in profits. In addition, project cancellations or scope adjustments may occur, from time to time, with respect to contracts reflected in our backlog. For example, certain of our contracts with the U.S. federal government and other clients are terminable at the discretion of the client, with or without cause. These types of backlog reductions could adversely affect our revenue and margins. Accordingly, our backlog as of any particular date is an uncertain indicator of our future earnings. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks that could significantly reduce our revenue and profits, or subject us to criminal and civil enforcement actions. During fiscal 2010, we generated 9.5% of our revenue from our foreign operations, primarily in Canada, and from international clients for work that is performed by our domestic operations. International business is subject to a variety of risks, including: •Lack of developed legal systems to enforce contractual rights; •Greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; •Currency fluctuations; •The potential for greater physical security risks, which may cause us to leave a country quickly; •Logistical and communication challenges; •Potentially adverse changes in laws and regulatory practices; •Changes in labor conditions; •General economic, political and financial conditions in foreign markets; and •Exposure to civil or criminal liability under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and other international regulations. For example, practices in the local business community outside the United States might not conform to international business standards and could violate anticorruption regulations, including the FCPA, which prohibits giving or offering to give anything of value with the intent to influence the awarding of government contracts. International risks and violations of international regulations may significantly reduce our profits and revenue and subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, including fines, suspensions or disqualification from future U.S. federal procurement contracting. Although we have policies and procedures to ensure legal and regulatory compliance, our employees, subcontractors and agents could 38 Table of Contents take actions that violate these requirements. As a result, our international risk exposure may be more or less than the percentage of revenue attributed to our international operations. If our business partners fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project, we could be exposed to legal liability, loss of reputation and profit reduction or loss on the project. We routinely enter into subcontracts and, occasionally, teaming arrangements and other contractual arrangements so that we can jointly bid and perform on a particular project. Success under these arrangements depends in large part on whether our business partners fulfill their contractual obligations satisfactorily. If any of our business partners fail to satisfactorily perform their contractual obligations as a result of financial or other difficulties, we may be required to incur additional costs and provide additional services in order to make up for our business partners' shortfall. If we are unable to adequately address our business partners' performance issues, then our client could terminate the joint project, exposing us to legal liability, loss of reputation and reduced profit or loss on the project. If our contractors and subcontractors fail to satisfy their obligations to us or other parties, or if we are unable to maintain these relationships, our revenue, profitability and growth prospects could be adversely affected. We depend on contractors and subcontractors in conducting our business. There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors arising from, among other things, the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, client concerns about the subcontractor, or our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract. In addition, if any of our subcontractors fail to deliver on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies, fail to perform the agreed-upon services or go out of business, then our ability to fulfill our obligations as a prime contractor may be jeopardized. We also rely on relationships with other contractors when we act as their subcontractor or joint venture partner. The absence of qualified subcontractors with which we have a satisfactory relationship could adversely affect the quality of our service and our ability to perform under some of our contracts. Our future revenue and growth prospects could be adversely affected if other contractors eliminate or reduce their subcontracts or teaming arrangement relationships with us, or if a government agency terminates or reduces these other contractors' programs, does not award them new contracts or refuses to pay under a contract. Changes in resource management or infrastructure industry laws, regulations and programs could directly or indirectly reduce the demand for our services, which could in turn negatively impact our revenue. Some of our services are directly or indirectly impacted by changes in U.S. federal, state, local or foreign laws and regulations pertaining to resource management, infrastructure and the environment. Accordingly, a relaxation or repeal of these laws and regulations, or changes in governmental policies regarding the funding, implementation or enforcement of these programs, could result in a decline in demand for our services, which could in turn negatively impact our revenue. Changes in capital markets could adversely affect our access to capital and negatively impact our business. Our results could be adversely affected by an inability to access our $300 million revolving credit facility. Unfavorable financial or economic conditions could impact certain issuers' willingness or ability to fund our revolving credit facility. In addition, increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of 39 Table of Contents debt issuance, the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers, the types of credit-sensitive products being offered, and/or a sustained period of market decline or weakness could have a material adverse effect on us. Restrictive covenants in our credit agreement may restrict our ability to pursue certain business strategies. Our credit agreement restricts our ability to, among other things: •Incur additional indebtedness; •Create liens securing debt or other encumbrances on our assets; •Make loans or advances; •Pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; •Purchase or redeem our stock; •Repay indebtedness that is junior to indebtedness under our credit agreement; •Acquire the assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies; and •Sell, lease or otherwise dispose of assets. Our credit agreement also requires that we maintain certain financial ratios, which we may not be able to achieve. The covenants may impair our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other favorable business activities. Our industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete effectively. Our industry is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. Our competitors are numerous, ranging from small private firms to multi-billion dollar public companies. In addition, the technical and professional aspects of our services generally do not require large upfront capital expenditures and provide limited barriers against new competitors. Some of our competitors have achieved greater market penetration in some of the markets in which we compete, and some have substantially more financial resources and/or financial flexibility than we do. As a result of the number of competitors in the industry, our clients may select one of our competitors on a project due to competitive pricing or a specific skill set. These competitive forces could force us to make price concessions or otherwise reduce prices for our services. If we are unable to maintain our competitiveness, our market share, revenue and profits will decline. The value of our common stock could be volatile. Our common stock has previously experienced substantial price volatility. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many companies and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. The overall market and the price of our common stock may fluctuate greatly. The trading price of our common stock may be significantly affected by various factors, including: •Quarter-to-quarter variations in our financial results, including revenue, profits, days sales outstanding, backlog, and other measures of financial performance or financial condition; •Our announcements or our competitors' announcements of significant events, including acquisitions; •Resolution of threatened or pending litigation; 40 Table of Contents •Changes in investors' and analysts' perceptions of our business or any of our competitors' businesses; •Investors' and analysts' assessments of reports prepared or conclusions reached by third parties; •Changes in environmental legislation; •Investors' perceptions of our performance of services in countries in which the U.S. military is engaged, including Iraq and Afghanistan; •Broader market fluctuations; and •General economic or political conditions. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom are granted stock options and shares of restricted stock, the value of which is dependent on the performance of our stock price. Legal proceedings, investigations and disputes could result in substantial monetary penalties and damages, especially if such penalties and damages exceed or are excluded from existing insurance coverage. We engage in consulting, engineering, program management, construction and technical services that can result in substantial injury or damages that may expose us to legal proceedings, investigations and disputes. For example, in the ordinary course of our business, we may be involved in legal disputes regarding personal injury claims, employee or labor disputes, professional liability claims, and general commercial disputes involving project cost overruns and liquidated damages as well as other claims. In addition, in the ordinary course of our business, we frequently make professional judgments and recommendations about environmental and engineering conditions of project sites for our clients. We may be deemed to be responsible for these judgments and recommendations if they are later determined to be inaccurate. Any unfavorable legal ruling against us could result in substantial monetary damages or even criminal violations. We maintain insurance coverage as part of our overall legal and risk management strategy to minimize our potential liabilities; however, insurance coverage contains exclusions and other limitations that may not cover our potential liabilities. Generally, our insurance program covers workers' compensation and employer's liability, general liability, automobile liability, professional errors and omissions liability, property, and contractor's pollution liability (in addition to other policies for specific projects). Our insurance program includes deductibles or self-insured retentions for each covered claim. In addition, our insurance policies contain exclusions that insurance providers may use to deny or restrict coverage. Excess liability and professional liability insurance policies provide for coverages on a "claims-made" basis, covering only claims actually made and reported during the policy period currently in effect. If we sustain liabilities that exceed or that are excluded from our insurance coverage or for which we are not insured, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition, including our profits and revenue. Unavailability or cancellation of third-party insurance coverage would increase our overall risk exposure as well as disrupt the management of our business operations. We maintain insurance coverage from third-party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. If any of our third-party insurers fail, suddenly cancel our coverage or otherwise are unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage then our overall risk exposure and our operational expenses would increase and the management of our business operations would be disrupted. In addition, there can be no assurance that any of our existing insurance coverage will be renewable upon the expiration of the coverage period or that future coverage will be affordable at the required limits. 41 Table of Contents Our inability to obtain adequate bonding could have a material adverse effect on our future revenue and business prospects. Certain clients require bid bonds and performance and payment bonds. These bonds indemnify the client should we fail to perform our obligations under a contract. If a bond is required for a particular project and we are unable to obtain an appropriate bond, we cannot pursue that project. In some instances, we are required to co-venture with a small or disadvantaged business to pursue certain U.S. federal or state government contracts. In connection with these ventures, we are sometimes required to utilize our bonding capacity to cover all of the payment and performance obligations under the contract with the client. We have a bonding facility but, as is typically the case, the issuance of bonds under that facility is at the surety's sole discretion. Moreover, due to events that can negatively affect the insurance and bonding markets, bonding may be more difficult to obtain or may only be available at significant additional cost. There can be no assurance that bonds will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms. Our inability to obtain adequate bonding and, as a result, to bid on new work could have a material adverse effect on our future revenue and business prospects. Employee, agent or partner misconduct or our overall failure to comply with laws or regulations could harm our reputation, reduce our revenue and profits, and subject us to criminal and civil enforcement actions. Misconduct, fraud, non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or other improper activities by one of our employees, agents or partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified information, regulations prohibiting bribery and other foreign corrupt practices, regulations regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, regulations on lobbying or similar activities, regulations pertaining to the internal controls over financial reporting, environmental laws and any other applicable laws or regulations. For example, the FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these regulations and laws, and we take precautions to prevent and detect misconduct. However, since our internal controls are subject to inherent limitations, including human error, it is possible that these controls could be intentionally circumvented or become inadequate because of changed conditions. As a result, we cannot assure that our controls will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees and agents. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or acts of misconduct could subject us to fines and penalties, loss of security clearances, and suspension or debarment from contracting, any or all of which could harm our reputation, reduce our revenue and profits, and subject us to criminal and civil enforcement actions. Our business activities may require our employees to travel to and work in countries where there are high security risks, which may result in employee death or injury, repatriation costs or other unforeseen costs. Certain of our contracts may require our employees travel to and work in high-risk countries that are undergoing political, social and economic upheavals resulting in war, civil unrest, criminal activity, acts of terrorism or public health crises. For example, we currently have employees working in Afghanistan and Pakistan. As a result, we risk loss of or injury to our employees and may be subject to costs related to employee death or injury, repatriation or other unforeseen circumstances. We may choose or be forced to leave a country with little or no warning due to physical security risks. 42 Table of Contents Our failure to implement and comply with our safety program could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. Our safety program is a fundamental element of our overall approach to risk management, and the implementation of the safety program is a significant issue in our dealings with our clients. We maintain an enterprise-wide group of health and safety professionals to help ensure that the services we provide are delivered safely and in accordance with standard work processes. Unsafe job sites and office environments have the potential to increase employee turnover, increase the cost of a project to our clients, expose us to types and levels of risk that are fundamentally unacceptable, and raise our operating costs. The implementation of our safety processes and procedures are monitored by various agencies and rating bureaus, and may be evaluated by certain clients in cases in which safety requirements have been established in our contracts. If we fail to meet these requirements or do not properly implement and comply with our safety program, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We may be precluded from providing certain services due to conflict of interest issues. Many of our clients are concerned about potential or actual conflicts of interest in retaining management consultants. U.S. federal government agencies have formal policies against continuing or awarding contracts that would create actual or potential conflicts of interest with other activities of a contractor. These policies, among other things, may prevent us from bidding for or performing government contracts resulting from or relating to certain work we have performed. In addition, services performed for a commercial or government client may create a conflict of interest that precludes or limits our ability to obtain work from other public or private organizations. We have, on occasion, declined to bid on projects due to conflict of interest issues. We may be subject to liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. We must comply with a number of governmental laws that strictly regulate the handling, removal, treatment, transportation and disposal of toxic and hazardous substances. Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended ("CERCLA"), and comparable state laws, we may be required to investigate and remediate regulated hazardous materials. CERCLA and comparable state laws typically impose strict, joint and several liabilities without regard to whether a company knew of or caused the release of hazardous substances. The liability for the entire cost of clean-up could be imposed upon any responsible party. Other principal federal environmental, health and safety laws affecting us include, but are not limited to, the Resource Conversation and Recovery Act, the NEPA, the Clean Air Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act and the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act. Our business operations may also be subject to similar state and international laws relating to environmental protection. Liabilities related to environmental contamination or human exposure to hazardous substances, or a failure to comply with applicable regulations, could result in substantial costs to us, including clean-up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party claims for property damage or personal injury or cessation of remediation activities. Our continuing work in the areas governed by these laws and regulations exposes us to the risk of substantial liability. Force majeure events, including natural disasters and terrorist actions could negatively impact the economies in which we operate or disrupt our operations, which may affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Force majeure or extraordinary events beyond the control of the contracting parties, such as natural and man-made disasters, as well as terrorist actions, could negatively impact the economies in which we operate by causing the closure of offices, interrupting projects and forcing the relocation of employees. Further, despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are 43 Table of Contents vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. We typically remain obligated to perform our services after a terrorist action or natural disaster unless the contract contains a force majeure clause that relieves us of our contractual obligations in such an extraordinary event. If we are not able to react quickly to force majeure, our operations may be affected significantly, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our competitive position. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary information and other intellectual property. We rely principally on trade secrets to protect much of our intellectual property where we do not believe that patent or copyright protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although our employees are subject to confidentiality obligations, this protection may be inadequate to deter or prevent misappropriation of our confidential information. In addition, we may be unable to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property or otherwise take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection would adversely affect our competitive business position. In addition, if we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our trademarks or other proprietary information, our competitive position could be adversely affected. We rely on third-party internal and outsourced software to run our critical accounting, project management and financial information systems. As a result, any sudden loss, disruption or unexpected costs to maintain these systems could significantly increase our operational expense and disrupt the management of our business operations. We rely on third-party software to run our critical accounting, project management and financial information systems. We also depend on our software vendors to provide long-term software maintenance support for our information systems. Software vendors may decide to discontinue further development, integration or long-term software maintenance support for our information systems, in which case we may need to abandon one or more of our current information systems and migrate some or all of our accounting, project management and financial information to other systems, thus increasing our operational expense as well as disrupting the management of our business operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 