Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Our quarterly and annual revenue, expenses and operating results may fluctuate significantly Our quarterly and annual revenue, expenses and operating results may fluctuate significantly because of a number of factors, including: •Unanticipated changes in contract performance that may affect profitability, particularly with contracts that are fixed-price or have funding limits; •The seasonality of the spending cycle of our public sector clients, notably the federal government, and the spending patterns of our commercial sector clients; •Budget constraints experienced by our federal, state and local government clients; •Acquisitions or the integration of acquired companies; •Divestiture or discontinuance of operating units; •Employee hiring, utilization and turnover rates; •The number and significance of client contracts commenced and completed during the quarter; •Creditworthiness and solvency of clients; •The ability of our clients to terminate contracts without penalties; •Delays incurred in connection with a contract; •The size, scope and payment terms of contracts; •Contract negotiations on change orders and collections of related accounts receivable; •The timing of expenses incurred for corporate initiatives; •Reductions in the prices of services offered by our competitors; •Threatened or pending litigation; •The impairment of our goodwill or identifiable intangible assets; •Changes in accounting rules; and •General economic or political conditions. Variations in any of these factors could cause significant fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter, result in net losses, and have a negative effect on the price of our stock. We derive the majority of our revenue from government agencies, and any disruption in government funding or in our relationship with those agencies could adversely affect our business In fiscal 2007, we derived approximately 64.1% of our revenue, net of subcontractor costs, from contracts with federal, state and local government agencies. Federal government agencies are among our most significant clients. The following agencies generated 43.9% of our revenue, net of subcontractor costs, in fiscal 2007: 29.4% from the DoD, 5.3% from the EPA, 2.1% from the DOE, and 7.1% from various other federal agencies. A significant amount of this revenue is derived under multi-year contracts, many of which are appropriated on an annual basis. As a result, at the beginning of a project, the related contract may be only partially funded, and additional funding is normally 22 committed only as appropriations are made in each subsequent year. These appropriations, and the timing of payment of appropriated amounts, may be influenced by, a number of factors as noted below. Our backlog includes only the projects that have funding appropriated. The demand for our government-related services is generally related to the level of government program funding. Accordingly, the success and further development of our business depends, in large part, upon the continued funding of these government programs and upon our ability to obtain contracts under these programs. There are several factors that could materially affect our government contracting business, including the following: •Changes in and delays or cancellations of government programs, requirements or appropriations; •Budget constraints or policy changes resulting in delay or curtailment of expenditures relating to the services we provide; •Re-competes of government contracts; •The timing and amount of tax revenue received by federal, state and local governments, and the overall level of government expenditures; •Curtailment of the use of government contracting firms; •Delays associated with a lack of a sufficient number of government staff to oversee contracts; •The increasing preference by government agencies for contracting with small and disadvantaged businesses; •Competing political priorities and changes in the political climate with regard to the funding or operation of the services we provide; •The adoption of new laws or regulations affecting our contracting relationships with the federal, state or local governments; •Unsatisfactory performance on government contracts by us or one of our subcontractors, negative government audits, or other events that may impair our relationship with the federal, state or local governments; •A dispute with or improper activity by any of our subcontractors; and •General economic or political conditions. These and other factors could cause government agencies to delay or cancel programs, to reduce their orders under existing contracts, to exercise their rights to terminate contracts or not to exercise contract options for renewals or extensions. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our revenue or timing of contract payments from these agencies. A significant shift in U.S. defense spending could harm our operations and significantly reduce our future revenues Revenue under contracts with the DoD represented approximately 29.4% of our revenue, net of subcontractor costs, in fiscal 2007, as noted above. In fiscal 2007, we experienced an increase in revenue for project management reconstruction services in Iraq compared to fiscal 2006. While spending authorization for defense-related programs has increased significantly in recent years due to greater homeland security and foreign military commitments, as well as the trend to outsource federal government jobs to the private sector, these spending levels may not be sustainable. For example, the DoD budget declined in the late 1980s and the early 1990s, resulting in DoD program delays and cancellations. Future levels of expenditures and authorizations for these programs may decrease, remain constant or shift to programs in areas where we do not currently provide services. As a result, a general 23 decline in U.S. defense spending or a change in budgetary priorities could harm our operations and significantly reduce our future revenues. A delay in the completion of the budget process of the U.S. government could delay procurement of our services and have an adverse effect on our future revenue In years when the U.S. government does not complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year on September 30th, government operations are typically funded by means of a "continuing resolution" that authorizes agencies of the U.S. government to continue to operate, but does not authorize new spending initiatives. When the U.S. government operates under a continuing resolution, government agencies may delay the procurement of services, which could reduce our future revenue. As a government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement laws, regulations and government audits; a violation of any such laws and regulations could result in sanctions, contract termination, forfeiture of profit, harm to our reputation or loss of our status as an eligible government contractor We must comply with and are affected by federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts. For example, we must comply with the FAR, the Truth in Negotiations Act, the CAS and DoD security regulations, as well as many other rules and regulations. These laws and regulations affect how we do business with our clients and, in some instances, impose additional costs on our business operations. Although we take precautions to prevent and deter fraud, misconduct and non-compliance, we face the risk that our employees or outside partners may engage in misconduct, fraud or other improper activities. Government agencies, such as the DCAA, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These government agencies review, and audit a government contractor's performance under its contracts and cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. In addition, during the course of its audits, the DCAA may question our incurred project costs, and if the DCAA believes we have accounted for such costs in a manner inconsistent with the requirements for the FAR or CAS, the DCAA auditor may recommend to our U.S. Government corporate administrative contracting officer to disallow such costs. Historically, we have not experienced significant disallowed costs as a result of government audits. However, we can provide no assurance that the DCAA or other government audits will not result in material disallowance for incurred costs in the future. Government contract violations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties or sanctions, contract termination, forfeiture of profit and/or suspension of payment, any of which could make us lose our status as an eligible government contractor. We could also suffer serious harm to our reputation. Because we depend on federal, state and local governments for a significant portion of our revenue, our inability to win or renew government contracts during regulated procurement processes could harm our operations and significant reduce or eliminate our profits Government contracts are awarded through a regulated procurement process. The federal government has increasingly relied upon multi-year contracts with pre-established terms and conditions, such as indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity ("IDIQ") contracts, which generally require those contractors who have previously been awarded the IDIQ to engage in an additional competitive bidding process before a task order is issued. The increased competition, in turn, may require us to make sustained efforts to reduce costs in order to realize revenues and profits under government contracts. If we are not successful in reducing the amount of costs we incur, our profitability on government contracts will be negatively impacted. Moreover, even if we are qualified to work on government contract, we may not be awarded the contract because of existing government policies designed to protect small businesses and underrepresented minority contractors. Our inability to win or renew 24 government contracts during regulated procurement processes could harm our operations and significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Our government contracts may give the government the right to modify, delay, curtail or terminate our contracts at their convenience at any time prior to their completion and, if we do not replace these contracts, then we may suffer a decline in revenues Government projects in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor may extend for several years. Generally, government contracts include the right to modify, delay, curtail or terminate contracts and subcontracts at their convenience any time prior to their completion. Any decision by a government client to modify, delay, curtail or terminate our contracts at their convenience may result in a decline in revenues. Demand for our non-federal government services is cyclical and vulnerable to economic downturns. If the economy weakens, then our revenues, profits and our financial condition may deteriorate Demand for our non-federal government services is cyclical and vulnerable to economic downturns, which may result in clients delaying, curtailing or canceling proposed and existing projects. Our business traditionally lags the overall recovery in the economy; therefore, our business may not recover immediately when the economy improves. If the economy weakens, then our revenues, profits and overall financial condition may deteriorate. Our state and local government clients may face budget deficits that prohibit them from funding new or existing projects. In addition, our existing and potential clients may either postpone entering into new contracts or request price concessions. Difficult financing and economic conditions may cause some of our clients to demand better pricing terms or delay payments for services we perform, thereby increasing the average number of days our receivables are outstanding. Further, these conditions may result in the inability of some of our clients to pay us for services that we have already performed. If we are not able to reduce our costs quickly enough to respond to the revenue decline from these clients, our operating results may be adversely affected. Accordingly, these factors affect our ability to forecast our future revenue and earnings from business areas that may be adversely impacted by market conditions. Our failure to properly manage projects may result in additional costs or claims Our engagements often involve large-scale, complex projects. The quality of our performance on such projects depends in large part upon our ability to manage the relationship with our clients, and to effectively manage the project and deploy appropriate resources, including third-party contractors and our own personnel, in a timely manner. If we miscalculate the resources or time we need to complete a project with capped or fixed fees, or the resources or time we need to meet contractual milestones, our operating results could be adversely affected. Further, any defects or errors, or failures to meet our clients' expectations, could result in claims for damages against us. Our contracts generally limit our liability for damages that arise from negligent acts, errors, mistakes or omissions in rendering services to our clients. However, we cannot be sure that these contractual provisions will protect us from liability for damages in the event we are sued. Prior to fiscal 2006, we experienced significant project cost overruns on the performance of fixed-price construction work, other than that associated with our federal government projects. Although we have implemented procedures intended to address these issues, no assurance can be given that we will not experience project management issues in the future. 25 The loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could significantly disrupt our business As a professional and technical services company, we are labor-intensive and therefore our ability to attract, retain and expand our senior management and our professional and technical staff is an important factor in determining our future success. With limited exceptions, we do not have employment agreements with any of these individuals. The loss of the services of any of these key personnel could adversely affect our business. Although we have obtained non-compete agreements from certain principals and stockholders of companies we have acquired, we generally do not have non-compete or employment agreements with key employees who were once equity holders of these companies. Further, many of our non-compete agreements have expired. We do not maintain key-man life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or senior managers. The market for the qualified scientists and engineers is competitive and we may not be able to attract and retain such professionals. In addition, it may be difficult to attract and retain qualified individuals with the expertise and in the timeframe demanded by our clients. For example, some of our government contracts may require us to employ only individuals who have particular government security clearance levels. In an effort to attract key employees, we often grant them stock options, and a reduction in our stock price could impact our ability to retain these professionals. Our actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our financial statements, which may significantly reduce or eliminate our profits To prepare financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, management is required to make estimates and assumptions as of the date of the financial statements, which affect the reported values of assets and liabilities and revenues and expenses and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include: •The application of the "percentage-of-completion" method of accounting, and revenue recognition on contracts, changes orders and contract claims; •Provisions for uncollectible receivables and customer claims and recoveries of costs from subcontractors, vendors and others; •Provisions for income taxes and related valuation allowances; •Value of goodwill and recoverability of other intangible assets; •Valuations of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with business combinations; •Valuation of employee benefit plans; •Valuation of stock-based compensation expense; and •Accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation and insurance reserves. Our actual results could differ from those estimates, which may significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenue and profits We account for most of our contracts on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Generally, our use of this method results in recognition of revenue and profit ratably over the life of the contract, based on the proportion of costs incurred to date to total costs expected to be incurred for the entire project. The effect of revisions to revenue and estimated costs, including the achievement of award and other fees, is recorded when the amounts are known and can be reasonably estimated. 26 Such revisions could occur in any period and their effects could be material. The uncertainties inherent in the estimating process make it possible for actual costs to vary materially from estimates, including reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenue and profit. Our failure to win new contracts and renew existing contracts with private and public sector clients could adversely affect our profitability Our business depends on our ability to win new contracts and renew existing contracts with private and public sector clients. Contract proposals and negotiations are complex and frequently involve a lengthy bidding and selection process, which are affected by a number of factors. These facts include market conditions, financing arrangements and required governmental approvals. For example, a client may require us to provide a bond or letter of credit to protect the client should we fail to perform under the terms of the contract. If negative market conditions arise, or if we fail to secure adequate financial arrangements or the required governmental approval, we may not be able to pursue particular projects, which could adversely affect our profitability. There are risks associated with our acquisition strategy that could adversely impact our business and operating results A key part of our growth strategy is to acquire other companies that complement our lines of business or that broaden our technical capabilities and geographic presence. We expect to continue to acquire companies as an element of our growth strategy; however, our ability to make acquisitions is restricted under our Credit Agreement. Acquisitions involve certain known and unknown risks that could cause our actual growth or operating results to differ from our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts. For example: •We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to acquire additional companies on acceptable terms; •We compete with others to acquire companies which may result in decreased availability of, or increased price for, suitable acquisition candidates; •We may not be able to obtain the necessary financing, on favorable terms or at all, to finance any of our potential acquisitions; •We may ultimately fail to consummate an acquisition even if we announce that we plan to acquire a company; •We may not be able to retain key employees of an acquired company which could negatively impact that company's future performance; •We may fail to successfully integrate or manage these acquired companies due to differences in business backgrounds or corporate cultures; •If we fail to successfully integrate any acquired company, our reputation could be damaged. This could make it more difficult to market our services or to acquire additional companies in the future; and •These acquired companies may not perform as we expect and we may fail to realize anticipated revenue and profits. In addition, our acquisition strategy may divert management's attention away from our existing businesses, result in the loss of key clients or key employees, and expose us to unanticipated problems or legal liabilities, including responsibility as a successor-in-interest for undisclosed or contingent liabilities of acquired businesses or assets. 27 Further, acquisitions may also cause us to: •Issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders' ownership percentage; •Assume liabilities, including environmental liabilities; •Record goodwill that will be subject to impairment testing and potential impairment charges; •Incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; •Lose existing or potential contracts as a result of conflict of interest issues; •Incur large and immediate write-offs; or •Become subject to litigation. Finally, acquired companies that derive a significant portion of their revenue from the federal government and that do not follow the same cost accounting policies and billing practices as we do may be subject to larger cost disallowances for greater periods than we typically encounter. If we fail to determine the existence of unallowable costs and establish appropriate reserves in advance of an acquisition, we may be exposed to material unanticipated liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are not able to successfully manage our growth strategy, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected Our expected future growth presents numerous managerial, administrative, operational and other challenges. Our ability to manage the growth of our operations will require us to continue to improve our management information systems and our other internal systems and controls. In addition, our growth will increase our need to attract, develop, motivate and retain both our management and professional employees. The inability of our management to effectively manage our growth or the inability of our employees to achieve anticipated performance could have a material adverse effect on our business. Adverse resolution of an Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") or other tax authority examination process may harm our financial results We are currently under examination by the IRS for fiscal years 1997 through 2004. During the third quarter of fiscal 2006, we received a 30-day letter from IRS related to fiscal years 1997 through 2001. We protested the position in the letter and began the IRS appeals process in January of 2007. We are also currently under examination by the California Franchise Tax Board ("FTB") for fiscal years 2001 through 2003. Subsequent to our year end, we received an Audit Issue Presentation Sheet ("AIPS") related to fiscal 2001 through 2003. We have protested the position in the AIPS. One major issue raised by the IRS and the FTB relates to the research and experimentation credits ("R&E Credits") that we claimed during the years under examination. The amount of credits recognized for financial statement purposes represents the amount that we estimate will be ultimately realizable. Should the IRS and/or the FTB determine that the amount of R&E credits to which we are entitled is more or less than the amount recognized, we will recognize an adjustment to the income tax accounts in the period in which the determination is made. This may have a material adverse effect on our financial results but no material impact on our liquidity. Another issue raised by the IRS relates to our tax accounting method for revenue recognition. While resolution of this matter may shift the timing of tax payment, as this is a temporary difference, there should be no material impact on our financial results upon resolution of this issue. 28 If we do not successfully complete the implementation of our ERP system, our cash flows may be impaired and we may incur further costs to integrate or upgrade our systems; any sudden loss, disruption or unexpected costs to maintain our ERP system or other third-party software could significantly increase our operational expense and disrupt the management of our business operations In fiscal 2004, we began implementation of a new company-wide ERP system, principally for accounting and project management. During fiscal 2007, we converted several of our large operating units to our ERP system, and plan to complete the conversion process in fiscal 2008. In the event we do not complete the project successfully, we may experience difficulty in accurately and timely reporting certain revenue and cost data. During the ERP implementation process, we have experienced reduced cash flows due to temporary delays in issuing invoices to our clients, which has adversely affected the timely collection of cash. Further, it is possible that the cost of completing this project could exceed our current projections and negatively impact future operating results. In addition, we rely on third-party software vendors to provide long-term software maintenance support for our information systems. Software vendors may decide to discontinue further development, integration or long-term software maintenance support for our information systems, which may increase our operational expense as well as disrupt the management of our business operation. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by our inability to accurately estimate the overall risks, revenue or costs on a contract We generally enter into three principal types of contracts with our clients: fixed-price, time-and-materials, and cost-plus. Under our fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and, consequently, we are exposed to a number of risks. These risks include underestimation of costs, problems with new technologies, unforeseen costs or difficulties, delays beyond our control, price increases for materials, and economic and other changes that may occur during the contract period. Under our time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for other expenses. Profitability on these contracts is driven by billable headcount and cost control. Many of our time-and-materials contracts are subject to maximum contract values and, accordingly, revenue relating to these contracts is recognized as if these contracts were fixed-price contracts. Under our cost-plus contracts, some of which are subject to contract ceiling amounts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and fees, which may be fixed or performance-based. If our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or any applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. Accounting for a contract requires judgments relative to assessing the contract's estimated risks, revenue and costs, and on making judgments on other technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of overall risk, revenue and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may also adversely affect future period financial performance. If we are unable to accurately estimate the overall revenue or costs on a contract, then we may experience a lower profit or incur a loss on the contract. Our backlog is subject to cancellation and unexpected adjustments, and is an uncertain indicator of future operating results Our backlog as of September 30, 2007 was $1.3 billion. We include in backlog only those contracts for which funding has been provided and work authorizations have been received. We cannot guarantee that the revenue projected in our backlog will be realized or, if realized, will result in profits. In addition, project cancellations or scope adjustments may occur, from time to time, with respect to contracts reflected in our backlog. For example, certain of our contracts with the federal government and other clients are terminable at the discretion of the client with or without cause. These types of 29 backlog reductions could adversely affect our revenue and margins. Accordingly, our backlog as of any particular date is an uncertain indicator of our future earnings. If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, then our profits may be significantly reduced Because we have historically acquired a significant number of companies, goodwill and other intangible assets have represented a substantial portion of our assets. As of September 30, 2007, our goodwill was $181.0 million and other intangible assets were $5.2 million. If any of our goodwill or other intangible assets were to become impaired, we would be required to write-off the impaired amount, which may significantly reduce our profit. Refer to the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" in Item 8. Our international operations expose us to risks such as different business cultures, laws and regulations During fiscal 2007, we derived approximately 0.9% of our revenue, net of subcontractor costs, from international clients. The different business cultures associated with international operations may not be fully appreciated before we sign an agreement, and thereby expose us to risk. Likewise, we need to understand prior to signing a contract international laws and regulations, such as foreign tax and labor laws, and U.S. laws and regulations applicable to companies engaging in business outside of the United States, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. For these reasons, pricing and executing international contracts is more difficult and carries more risk than pricing and executing domestic contracts. Our experience has also shown that it is typically more difficult to collect on international work that has been performed and billed. If our business partners fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project, we could be exposed to legal liability, loss of reputation and profit reduction or loss on the project We routinely enter into subcontracts, and occasionally teaming arrangements and other contractual arrangements so that we can jointly bid and perform on a particular project. Success on these joint projects depends in large part on whether our business partners fulfill their contractual obligations satisfactorily. If any of our business partners fails to satisfactorily perform their contractual obligations as a result of financial or other difficulties, we may be required to incur additional costs and provide additional services in order to make up for our business-partners' shortfall. If we are unable to adequately address our business partners' performance issues, then our client could terminate the joint project, exposing us to legal liability, loss of reputation and reduced profit or loss on the project. In conducting our business, we depend on other contractors and subcontractors. If these parties fail to satisfy their obligations to us or other parties, or if we are unable to maintain these relationships, our revenue, profitability and growth prospects could be adversely affected We depend on contractors and subcontractors in conducting our business. There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors arising from, among other things, the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontractor, or our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract. In addition, if any of our subcontractors fail to deliver on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies and/or perform the agreed-upon services, our ability to fulfill our obligations as a prime contractor may be jeopardized. We also rely on relationships with other contractors when we act as their subcontractor or joint venture partner. The absence of qualified subcontractors with whom we have a satisfactory relationship could adversely affect the quality of our service and our ability to perform under some of our contracts. Our future revenue and growth prospects could be adversely affected if other contractors eliminate or 30 reduce their subcontracts or joint venture relationships with us, or if a government agency terminates or reduces these other contractors' programs, does not award them new contracts or refuses to pay under a contract. Changes in existing environmental laws, regulations and programs could reduce demand for our environmental services, which could cause our revenue to decline A significant amount of our resource management business is generated either directly or indirectly as a result of existing federal and state laws, regulations and programs related to pollution and environmental protection. Accordingly, a relaxation or repeal of these laws and regulations, or changes in governmental policies regarding the funding, implementation or enforcement of these programs, could result in a decline in demand for environmental services that may have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Our revenue from commercial clients is significant, and the credit risks associated with certain of these clients could adversely affect our operating results In fiscal 2007, we derived approximately 35.0% of our revenue, net of subcontractor costs, from commercial clients. We rely upon the financial stability and creditworthiness of these clients. To the extent the credit quality of these clients deteriorates or these clients seek bankruptcy protection, our ability to collect our receivables, and ultimately our operating results, may be adversely affected. Periodically, we have experienced bad debt losses. Our industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete effectively Our industry is highly fragmented and intensely competitive. Our competitors are numerous, ranging from small private firms to multi-billion dollar public companies. In addition, the technical and professional aspects of our services generally do not require large upfront capital expenditures and provide limited barriers against new competitors. Some of our competitors have achieved greater market penetration in some of the markets in which we compete, and have substantially more financial resources and/or financial flexibility than we do. As a result of the number of competitors in our industry, our clients may select one of our competitors on a project due to competitive pricing or a specific skill set. These competitive forces could force us to make price concessions or otherwise reduce prices for our services, thereby causing a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value of our common stock could be volatile Our common stock has previously experienced substantial price volatility. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many companies and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. The overall market and the price of our common stock may fluctuate greatly. The trading price of our common stock may be significantly affected by various factors, including: •Quarter-to-quarter variations in our financial results, including revenue, profits, days sales outstanding, backlog, and other measures of financial performance or financial condition; •Our announcements or our competitors' announcements of significant events, including acquisitions; •Resolution of threatened or pending litigation; •Changes in investors' and analysts' perceptions of our business or any of our competitors' businesses; 31 •Investors' and analysts' assessments of reports prepared or conclusions reached by third parties; •Changes in environmental legislation; •Investors' perceptions of our performance of services in countries in which the U.S. military is engaged, including Iraq and Afghanistan; •Broader market fluctuations; and •General economic or political conditions. Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, many of whom are granted stock options and shares of restricted stock, the value of which is dependent on the performance of our stock price. Restrictive covenants in our Credit Agreement may restrict our ability to pursue certain business strategies Our Credit Agreement restricts our ability to, among other things: •Incur additional indebtedness; •Create liens securing debt or other encumbrances on our assets; •Make loans or advances; •Pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; •Purchase or redeem our stock; •Repay indebtedness that is junior to indebtedness under our Credit Agreement; •Acquire the assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies; and •Sell, lease or otherwise dispose of assets. Our Credit Agreement also requires that we maintain certain financial ratios, which we may not be able to achieve. Our services expose us to significant risks of liability and it may be difficult to obtain or maintain adequate insurance coverage Our services involve significant risks of professional and other liabilities that may substantially exceed the fees we derive from our services. Our business activities could expose us to potential liability under various environmental laws and under workplace health and safety regulations. In addition, we sometimes assume liability by contract under indemnification agreements. We cannot predict the magnitude of such potential liabilities. We obtain insurance from third parties to cover our potential risks and liabilities. It is possible that we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance to meet our needs, may have to pay an excessive amount for the insurance coverage we want, or may not be able to acquire any insurance for certain types of business risks. Our liability for damages due to legal proceedings may harm our operating results or financial condition We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of business. Various legal proceedings are currently pending against us and certain of our subsidiaries alleging, among other things, breach of contract or tort in connection with the performance of professional services. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings with certainty. In some actions, parties are seeking damages that exceed 32 our insurance coverage or for which we are not insured. If we sustain damages that exceed our insurance coverage or that are not covered by insurance, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our business activities may require our employees to travel to and work in high security risk countries, which may result in employee death or injury, repatriation costs or other unforeseen costs. Certain of our contracts may require our employees travel to and work in high security risk countries that are undergoing political, social and economic upheavals resulting in war, civil unrest, criminal activity or acts of terrorism. For example, we currently have employees working in Afghanistan and Iraq. As a result, we may be subject to costs related to employee death or injury, repatriation or other unforeseen circumstances. Our failure to implement and comply with our safety program could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition Our safety program is a fundamental element of our overall approach to risk management, and the implementation of the safety program is a significant issue in our dealings with our clients. We maintain an enterprise-wide group of health and safety professionals to help ensure that the services we provide are delivered safely and in accordance with standard work processes. Unsafe job sites and office environments have the potential to increase employee turnover, increase the cost of a project to our clients, expose us to types and levels of risk that are fundamentally unacceptable, and raise our operating costs. The implementation of our safety processes and procedures are monitored by various agencies and rating bureaus, and may be evaluated by certain clients in cases in which safety requirements have been established in our contracts. If we fail to meet these requirements, or to properly implement and comply with our safety program, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our inability to obtain adequate bonding could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and business prospects Many of our clients require bid bonds and performance and payment bonds. These bonds indemnify the client should we fail to perform our obligations under the contract. If a bond is required for a particular project and we are unable to obtain an appropriate bond, we cannot pursue that project. In some instances, we are required to co-venture with a small or disadvantaged business to pursue certain federal or state contracts. In connection with these ventures, we are sometimes required to utilize our bonding capacity to cover all of the payment and performance obligations under the contract with the client. We have a bonding facility but, as is typically the case, the issuance of bonds under that facility is at the surety's sole discretion. Moreover, due to events that can negatively affect the insurance and bonding markets, bonding may be more difficult to obtain or may only be available at significant additional cost. There can be no assurance that bonds will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms. Our inability to obtain adequate bonding and, as a result, to bid on new work could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and business prospects. We may be precluded from providing certain services due to conflict of interest issues Many of our clients are concerned about potential or actual conflicts of interest in retaining management consultants. Federal government agencies have formal policies against continuing or awarding contracts that would create actual or potential conflicts of interest with other activities of a contractor. These policies, among other things, may prevent us from bidding for or performing government contracts resulting from or relating to certain work we have performed. In addition, services performed for a commercial or government client may create a conflict of interest that 33 precludes or limits our ability to obtain work from other public or private organizations. We have, on occasion, declined to bid on projects due to the conflict of interest issues. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure will result in additional expenses Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, and The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC rules, are creating additional disclosure and other compliance requirements for us. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest appropriate resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Force majeure events, including natural disasters and terrorists' actions could negatively impact the economies in which we operate or disrupt our operations, which may affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows Force majeure events, including natural disasters, such as Hurricane Katrina that affected the Gulf Coast in August 2005, and terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred in New York and Washington D.C. on September 11, 2001, could negatively impact the economies in which we operate by causing the closure of offices, interrupting active client projects and forcing the relocation of employees. Further, despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. We typically remain obligated to perform our services after a terrorist action or natural disaster unless the contract contains a force majeure clause that relieves us of our contractual obligations in such an extraordinary event. If we are not able to react quickly to force majeure, our operations may be affected significantly, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our competitive position Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary information and other intellectual property. We rely principally on trade secrets to protect much of our intellectual property where we do not believe that patent or copyright protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although our employees are subject to confidentiality obligations, this protection may be inadequate to deter or prevent misappropriation of our confidential information. In addition, we may be unable to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property or otherwise take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection would adversely affect our competitive business position. In addition, if we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our trademarks or other proprietary information, our competitive position could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 