ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risks regarding our company. These and other risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. You should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report. OUR INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING MAY BE INSUFFICIENT TO DETECT IN A TIMELY MANNER MISSTATEMENTS THAT COULD OCCUR IN OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IN AMOUNTS THAT MAY BE MATERIAL. As of July 2, 2005, we identified ten material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. For a discussion of our remediation efforts, see Item 9A, Controls and Procedures, below and the periodic reports that we previously filed with the SEC. Although we believe that at least seven of the previously identified material weaknesses were remediated as of July 1, 2006, we are still experiencing material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting in connection with our enterprise resource planning ("ERP") system, our information technology and our sales, accounts receivable and revenue recognition processes. We anticipate that these remaining three material weaknesses will be remediated during fiscal 2007. We cannot assure you, however, that our remediation efforts will be successful within this time frame or at all. We may also continue to experience significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future, which, if not remediated, may render us unable to detect in a timely manner misstatements that could occur in our financial statements in amounts that may be material. THE IMPLEMENTATION OF OUR NEW ERP SYSTEM IN EARLY FISCAL 2005 CONTINUES TO REPRESENT A MATERIAL WEAKNESS IN OUR INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING. During August 2004, we converted from our existing legacy systems to a new ERP system. This design and implementation project began in July 2003 and includes our accounting, financial and operating functions and systems, including sales, supply chain and manufacturing systems. Implementing the ERP system involved significant costs, in terms of both the financial and human resources incurred and expended. As disclosed in this report and in earlier reports filed with the SEC, the ineffective planning and implementation of the ERP system constitutes a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that we have not yet successfully remediated. See Item 9A, Controls and Procedures, below. The remediation effort associated with this material weakness continues to involve significant costs, in terms of both the financial and human resources incurred and expended. Although we believe the material weakness with respect to the ERP system will be remediated during fiscal 2007, if we are unsuccessful in remediating this material weakness, our reliance on the ERP system could interfere 8 with our ability to file our periodic reports with the SEC on a timely basis and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to manage our business. WE MAY NOT CONTINUE TO MEET NASDAQ LISTING STANDARDS. Under NASDAQ continued listing standard one (Rule 4450(a)), companies listed on the NASDAQ Global Market are required to have, among other criteria, a minimum per-share price of at least $1.00. A company may be de-listed from the NASDAQ Global Market if its common stock trades below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days and, after receiving a deficiency notice from NASDAQ, does not maintain a minimum bid price of at least $1.00 for 10 consecutive trading days within a period of 180 days from the date of such notice. As disclosed in the Current Report on Form 8-K that we filed with the SEC on June 30, 2006, on June 26, 2006, we received a deficiency letter from the NASDAQ staff indicating that for 30 consecutive days, the per-share price of our common stock closed below the minimum $1.00 per-share requirement. NASDAQ has provided us a period of 180 calendar days to regain compliance with the minimum per-share price requirement. The compliance period will expire on December 26, 2006. If our common stock does not achieve compliance with the minimum per-share price requirement within this period, NASDAQ will provide written notification to us that our common stock will be de-listed. If our common stock is de-listed from NASDAQ, we will face a significant reduction in the liquidity of our common stock and a material reduction in the per-share price of our common stock. In addition, any such de-listing could harm our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and may result in the loss of confidence in our financial stability by suppliers, customers and employees. If our securities are de-listed from the NASDAQ Global Market, we may face a lengthy process to re-list our securities, if we are able to re-list them at all, and the liquidity that NASDAQ provides will no longer be available to investors. We cannot give investors in our common stock any assurance that we will be able to regain and maintain compliance with the $1.00 per-share minimum price requirement for continued listing on NASDAQ or that our stock will not be de-listed by NASDAQ. 9 THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY FLUCTUATE AND/OR CONTINUE TO DECLINE. The stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies and that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results of such companies. These broad market movements may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In many instances, securities class action litigation has been instituted following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities. Such litigations have been instituted against us and could continue to result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could harm our business. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, below and Note 17, Litigation and Settlements, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. THE EXPIRATION OF OUR PROCESSING AGREEMENT WITH THE PRC WOULD DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS. Our operations are substantially dependent upon our ability to manufacture and assemble our products in the PRC. Our current processing agreement with the PRC governmental entities, which allows us to operate in the PRC, expires in October 2006. We have entered into a new processing agreement which will allow us to continue to operate in the PRC until October 2016. The new processing agreement is pending approval by the applicable PRC governmental entities. If the new processing agreement is not approved or we cannot enter into an alternative arrangement that will permit us to continue to operate in the PRC under similar terms and conditions, our results of operations and our ability to carry on our business would be materially adversely affected. WE MAY EXPERIENCE LIQUIDITY ISSUES IF OUR RELIANCE ON FINANCING FACILITIES INCREASES. Our primary source of liquidity has been provided by our short-term investments, funds provided by the collection of accounts receivable and borrowing availability under our financing facilities. Our borrowing capacity under the import facility provided by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited ("HSBC") was reduced during calendar year 2005 from $24.0 million in January 2005 to $14.0 million in September 2005. In January 2006, the HSBC financing facilities were further reduced to an aggregate of approximately $8.3 million and we were required to provide cash deposits pledged as security in the amount of approximately $8.3 million against the facility. See Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, "Hong Kong Financing Facilities," for additional information on the HSBC financing facilities. Due to our recent losses, we may need to increase our reliance on financing facilities, whether through HSBC or other financial institutions and, as a result, we may face liquidity issues due to potential funding limits and debt service requirements imposed by lenders. Additionally, we may not be able to secure such financing on reasonable terms or at all. A significant increase in our indebtedness could increase our financing costs, interfere with our ability to operate our business effectively and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. OUR BUSINESS STRATEGIES MAY NOT SUCCEED. During the normal course of our business, we evaluate, develop and implement various short-term and long-term business strategies such as our restructuring initiatives and cost-reduction initiatives discussed in Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These strategies required, and may continue to require, significant financial and human resources. There can be no assurance that any such strategies, if implemented, will be successful. The failure of such strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business. 10 WE MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL IN IMPLEMENTING OUR RESTRUCTURING INITIATIVES AND COST-REDUCTION INITIATIVES. In December 2004, we implemented restructuring initiatives that, among other things, were designed to eliminate our reliance on internally designed and manufactured digital cameras and increase the design, co-development and purchase of digital cameras from outsourced manufacturers. In fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006, we incurred significant restructuring charges and expenses as a result of the restructuring initiatives and may incur additional charges. In addition, as a result of our continued evaluation of our cost structure and the on-going strategic review process, we reduced certain costs including, among other things, employee costs as a result of our eliminating certain employee positions and consolidating certain of our operations in Europe. The expected benefits from these initiatives are subject to many estimates and assumptions, including, but not limited to, assumptions regarding (i) the amount and timing of cost reductions we can achieve; (ii) our ability to develop and maintain relationships with outsourced manufacturers for the design, co-development and purchase of our products; (iii) our ability to meet customer demands and fulfill customer service obligations; and (iv) the costs and timing of activities undertaken in connection with these initiatives. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties that are difficult to predict and beyond our control. If these assumptions are not realized, or if other unforeseen events occur, the initiatives may not be successful and our results of operations and our ability to compete could be adversely affected. See Note 19, Restructuring and Other Charges, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. IF WE CONTINUE TO INCUR SUBSTANTIAL LOSSES, WE MAY NOT HAVE SUFFICIENT LIQUIDITY TO MEET OUR WORKING CAPITAL NEEDS. Although we believe that we have sufficient working capital to fund our operations for at least the next twelve months, our ability to fund our operating requirements and maintain an adequate level of working capital and liquidity may be impaired if we continue to incur losses, fail to generate substantial growth in sales of our products or fail to control operating expenses. If we require funding to meet our cash flow needs, we may seek to obtain such funding through, among other things, loans or the issuance of debt or equity securities. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities or by issuing debt that is convertible into equity, existing shareholders will experience dilution in their ownership percentage. Moreover, additional funding or capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. WE FACE SIGNIFICANT RISKS RELATED TO THE SINGLE-USE, DIGITAL AND 35MM TRADITIONAL FILM CAMERA MARKETS. Based upon available third-party market research data, the digital camera market peaked in Japan in calendar 2004 and is projected to peak in North America during calendar 2006 and will peak in Europe in calendar 2007; the 35mm traditional film camera market has been in significant decline and is expected to continue to decline; and the single-use camera market is in decline. See Item1, Business, "Image Capture Market Trends," above. As discussed in this report, we have de-emphasized sales of our digital camera products and are concentrating on increasing sales of our single-use camera products. There is no assurance, however, that our single-use camera sales will increase, or that, even if they do increase, they will be profitable or that we will be able to maintain our market share in the single-use and 35mm traditional film camera markets. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON A SMALL NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS. We have a small number of customers that represent a high percentage of our revenues. Our products are sold in very competitive markets. Our competitors may adopt more aggressive policies and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products, which could result in a loss of sales or of customers. The loss of sales or of one or more of these important customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 11 THE CAMERA AND PHOTOGRAPHIC PRODUCTS INDUSTRY IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE. As a manufacturer, marketer and distributor of low cost, popularly priced image capture products, we encounter intense competition from a number of companies, including without limitation, Canon, Fuji, Hewlett-Packard, Kodak, Olympus, Nikon, Sony, Pentax, Panasonic, Samsung and Vivitar, each of which has or may have longer operating histories, more established markets, better brand recognition, more extensive facilities and, in some cases, greater resources than we have. Maintaining a competitive advantage against our competitors depends on our ability to develop and manufacture or purchase from outsourced manufacturers high quality products at the lowest cost and our ability to market and sell cameras profitably. These competitive pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and/or increased operating costs, such as for marketing and sales incentives, resulting in lower revenues, gross margins and income. DIGITAL CAMERA PRODUCTS ARE SUBJECT TO RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES, PRICE EROSION, OBSOLESCENCE AND HIGHER RATES OF RETURNS AND ALLOWANCES. Digital camera products are subject to rapid technological changes, price erosion, rapid obsolescence and rates of returns and allowances to a greater extent than 35mm traditional film and single-use camera products. When our average selling prices decline, our revenues decline unless we sell more units, and our gross profits and margins decline unless we are able to reduce our product costs by commensurate amounts and percentages or find new customers. To be successful in the market, we have to respond quickly to technological advances and market conditions and manage our inventory effectively to accommodate price declines and erosion resulting from such factors as competition and the short life span of such products. Due to price competition, allowances for digital cameras are considerably higher than those provided to customers for traditional and single-use cameras. These uncertainties, individually or in the aggregate, have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our gross profits and profit margins and, as a result, as discussed in this report, we have de-emphasized sales of our digital camera products. WE DEPEND ON THIRD-PARTY SUPPLIERS, AND OUR REVENUE, GROSS PROFITS AND MARGINS COULD SUFFER IF WE FAIL TO MANAGE SUPPLIER ISSUES PROPERLY. We currently purchase all of our digital and certain of our single-use and 35mm traditional film camera products from outsourced manufacturers for sale to our RSD customers worldwide. Our manufacturing, sales and distribution operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components and products and our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components and products at reasonable prices in time to meet critical manufacturing, sales and distribution schedules. 12 Given the variety of products that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and outsourced manufacturers that are dispersed across the globe and the long lead times that are required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, adverse circumstances, issues and problems could arise in planning production, procurement and managing inventory levels that could negatively impact our business and increase our financial exposure and risk. Other supplier problems that we could face include component and product shortages, excess supply and risks related to fixed-price contracts that would require us to pay more than the open market price, as more fully described below. o Supply shortages. We may experience a short supply of, or a delay in receiving, certain components and products as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints or other problems experienced by suppliers. If shortages or delays persist, the price of these components and products may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues or the components and products may not be available at all. We may not be able to secure enough components and/or products at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build, sell and distribute new products in a timely manner in the quantities or configurations needed. Accordingly, our revenue, gross profits and margins could suffer as we could lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or be unable to pass on price increases to our customers. If we cannot adequately address supply issues, we may have to re-engineer and/or source some components and products, resulting in further costs and delays. o Oversupply. In order to secure products or components for the production of products, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers, or we may enter into non-cancelable commitments with suppliers. If we fail to properly anticipate customer demand, an oversupply of products and/or components could result in excess or obsolete inventory. This excess or obsolete inventory may result in lowering the carrying value of these components and/or products by recording an inventory charge which could adversely affect our gross profits and margins. o Long-term pricing commitments. As a result of binding price or purchase commitments with suppliers, we may be obligated to purchase components and/or products at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. In the event that we become committed to purchase components and/or products for prices in excess of the current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components and/or products at lower prices. This excess over current market price may result in lowering the carrying value of those components and/or products by recording an inventory charge that could adversely affect our gross profits and margins. In many instances, we rely on offshore suppliers, including, but not limited to, manufacturers in the PRC, for the production of cameras and other suppliers in Asia for product assembly and manufacture. Regional economic, business, environmental, political, medical or military conditions or events could disrupt supplies in foreign locations. We ceased manufacturing digital cameras at the end of fiscal 2005. We began purchasing digital camera products exclusively from outsourced manufacturers in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. The risks identified above will continue to be significant as a result of our purchases of products from these manufacturers. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON THIRD-PARTY SERVICE PROVIDERS TO PROVIDE DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES FOR ALL OF OUR OPERATIONS IN THE UNITED STATES, LATIN AMERICA AND EUROPE. The warehousing and distribution services for our (i) United States and Latin American operations are handled from a single distribution facility operated by a third-party service provider in San Pedro, California; and (ii) European operations are handled from a single distribution facility operated by a third-party service provider in Moerdijk, The Netherlands. Our products are prepared for shipment and shipped to our customers by such third-party service providers at these distribution facilities. Any failure by these 13 third-party service providers to maintain a regular flow of products from us to our customers or any significant interruption in the business of these service providers or the operation of these distribution facilities due to natural disasters, accidents, system failures, work stoppages or other causes would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, if the cost of these services increases, our gross profits and margins could suffer. MOST OF OUR OPERATIONS IN THE PRC ARE SUBJECT TO REGULATION BY LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES. The continuing viability of our PRC agreements is critical to our business operations. We manufacture a large number of the components used in our cameras and assemble all of our own manufactured finished products at our facilities in the PRC. During fiscal 2006, based upon production demand, we had approximately 2,200 to 4,400 workers at our manufacturing facilities in the PRC either employed by our PRC subsidiary or provided through our agreements with various PRC government or quasi-government entities. We are responsible for their wages, food and housing and must comply with a variety of local labor and employee benefit laws covering these workers. While we believe we are in substantial compliance with applicable laws as currently enforced, these laws are subject to modification and interpretation by local governmental authorities. We cannot predict the effect of any future modifications to or strict enforcement of the existing laws. In addition, the termination or material modification of any of our agreements with the PRC governmental or quasi-government entities could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations. WE ARE EXPOSED TO CREDIT RISK ASSOCIATED WITH SALES TO OUR CUSTOMERS. We sell a significant number of products to a small number of customers. Receivables arising from these sales are generally not collateralized. We monitor the creditworthiness of our customers and review outstanding receivable balances for collectibility on a regular basis and record provisions for doubtful accounts, allowances and returns, as necessary. In the past, we have had customers file for protection from their creditors under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. As a result, we have recognized provisions related to accounts receivable and inventory. See Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, below. If we are unable to collect or timely collect outstanding receivables from our customers or our customers seek protection from their creditors under the Bankruptcy Code or applicable foreign bankruptcy regulations, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. WE ARE EXPOSED TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY USED IN OUR PRODUCTS. Our products use technology which may be protected by United States or foreign patents. The right to use such intellectual property is subject to the availability of licenses from the owners of the intellectual property. If licenses are not available, or are only available on onerous terms, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Third parties also may claim that we, or the customers we indemnify, are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Even if we believe that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management's attention and resources away from our business. Claims of intellectual property infringement also may require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards or cease marketing of certain products subject to the claims. Even if we have an agreement with a third party to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations to us. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all or on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could suffer. 14 From time to time, we receive patent infringement claims which we analyze and, if appropriate, take action to avoid infringement, settle the claim or negotiate a license. Those claims for which legal proceedings have been initiated against us are discussed in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, and in Note 17, Litigation and Settlements, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We have also received notifications from two entities, one of which was a significant customer, alleging that certain of our digital cameras infringe upon those entities' respective patents. We are engaged in discussions with these entities regarding resolution of the claims. Based on our initial assessment of these two claims, infringement of one or more patents is probable if the patents are valid. Based upon the licensing discussions to date, we preliminarily estimate the potential royalties due to these two claimants for digital camera sales through July 1, 2006 to be between $0 and approximately $6.6 million in the aggregate. The actual royalty amounts, if any, for past and future sales are dependent upon the outcome of the negotiations. We have notified certain of our suppliers of our right to be indemnified by the suppliers in the event we are required to pay royalties or damages to either claimant. We are unable to reasonably estimate the amount of the potential loss, if any, within the range of estimates relating to these claims. Accordingly, no amounts have been accrued related to these claims as of July 1, 2006. OUR ABILITY TO MANUFACTURE AND SELL SINGLE-USE CAMERAS DEPENDS ON OUR LICENSING AGREEMENT WITH FUJI. Our business is substantially dependent on our license from Fuji, which granted us a worldwide non-exclusive right to use certain Fuji patents and patent applications related to single-use cameras. The license extends until the later of the expiration of the last of the licensed Fuji patents or February 26, 2021. After the term of the license expires, we expect to continue to be able to manufacture and sell single-use cameras without a license. If, however, the license is terminated prior to the expiration of the patents, we may not be able to continue to manufacture and sell single-use cameras and, as a result, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. WE ARE EXPOSED TO POLITICAL, ECONOMIC AND OTHER RISKS THAT ARISE FROM OPERATING A MULTINATIONAL BUSINESS. We have significant operations outside the United States. We currently have operations in the Americas, Europe and Asia. Further, we obtain raw materials, components and finished camera products from foreign suppliers, particularly in Asia. Accordingly, our business is subject to the political, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in foreign countries. These risks include, but are not limited to: o the difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through foreign legal systems; o trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; o the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; o difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of foreign labor regulations; o required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; o changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; and o increased costs and risks of doing business in a number of foreign jurisdictions. Our business depends in part on our ability to successfully anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. We cannot assure you that such risks will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 RELOCATION TIME AND EXPENSES COULD RESULT IN SUBSTANTIAL LOSSES. If we determine it is necessary to relocate our manufacturing facilities from the PRC, or to another location within the PRC, due to confiscation, expropriation, nationalization, embargoes, governmental restrictions or for other regulatory, business and/or financial reasons, we would incur substantial operating and capital losses, including losses resulting from business interruption and delays in production. In addition, as a result of a relocation of our manufacturing equipment and other assets, we may incur relatively higher manufacturing costs, which could reduce sales and decrease the gross profits and margins on the products we manufacture. Relocation of our manufacturing operations could also result in disruption in the delivery of our products, which could, in turn, reduce demand for our products in the future. WE ARE EXPOSED TO INTEREST RATE AND EXCHANGE RATE RISK. As a result of our global operating and financing activities, we are exposed to fluctuation in currency exchange rates and interest rates, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Exchange rates and interest rates in certain markets in which we do business tend to be more volatile than those in the United States and Western Europe. If there is a significant devaluation of the currency in a specific country, the prices of our products will increase relative to that country's currency and our products may be less competitive in that country. We generally do not engage in currency hedging activities. The PRC government announced on July 21, 2005 that its currency will no longer be pegged to the U.S. Dollar. Instead, the exchange rates for the Chinese yuan, or Renminbi, will be determined by a basket of foreign currencies. This change effected a de facto revaluation of the yuan to the U.S. Dollar from 8.28 yuan to 8.11 yuan per U.S. Dollar. Currently, we generate nominal net sales valued in Renminbi. Net sales recorded in Hong Kong are denominated in Hong Kong Dollars, the exchange rate of which has not been affected by the yuan revaluation and is still pegged to the U.S. Dollar. We expect that the revaluation may initially have an immaterial negative effect on our manufacturing operations in the PRC by immaterially increasing our cost of doing business in the PRC. The interest rate related to our Hong Kong financing facilities provided by HSBC is based on a spread over the Hong Kong Interbank Offered Rate on import loans denominated in Hong Kong Dollars and over the Singapore Interbank Offered Rate on import loans denominated in other currencies. A significant change in these rates could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currently, we are not utilizing any interest rate protection agreements to limit our exposure to this risk. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON A SMALL GROUP OF KEY PERSONNEL. Our business is managed by a small number of key management and operating personnel. The loss of key management and operating personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business. We believe our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract highly skilled and qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. We may not be able to hire the necessary personnel to implement our business strategies, or we may need to pay higher compensation for employees than currently budgeted and/or anticipated in the future. Our inability to attract and retain such personnel could limit our growth and affect our results of operations. INTERNATIONAL TRADE RESTRICTIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND GROWTH. The United States, the PRC, Hong Kong, the European Union or other countries where we do business may impose trade restrictions that could adversely affect our operations. In addition, the United States is currently monitoring various PRC practices, including trade, investment and government procurement, as 16 well as the PRC's compliance with various multilateral and bilateral agreements. We cannot predict whether the United States will take future trade actions against the PRC that may result in increased tariffs against PRC products, including products that we import. OUR OPERATIONS MAY BE IMPAIRED AS A RESULT OF DISASTERS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTIONS OR SIMILAR EVENTS. Disasters such as hurricanes, typhoons, earthquakes, or other acts of nature, terrorist attacks, fire, water or electricity failure, or accidents affecting our operating activities, facilities, and employees' and customers' health could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In particular, our operations in the PRC, as well as most of our outsourced manufacturers, suppliers and service providers involved in the manufacturing of components and products are located within a relatively close proximity of one another in the PRC. Therefore, any disaster that strikes within close proximity of that geographic area could disrupt our business and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In the event of another outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or some other disease or health-related issue, our facilities and/or the facilities of our outsourced manufacturers, suppliers and service providers located in Hong Kong, the PRC and other parts of the world could be quarantined, temporarily closed or disrupted. If such an outbreak occurs, it could delay or prevent us from developing new products or manufacturing, testing or shipping our current or future products, and may require us to find other providers of such services and/or products, which may be unavailable or more expensive. Further, if a SARS outbreak has an adverse impact on the businesses of our customers, it could reduce the size and/or frequency of our customers' purchases, which could adversely impact our results of operations. OUR FUTURE INCOME TAX RATES COULD INCREASE. A number of factors will affect our income tax rate in the future, and the combined effect of these factors could result in an increase in our effective income tax rate as compared to our effective income tax rate in fiscal 2006. This potential increase in future effective income tax rates would adversely affect net income in future periods. We operate in different countries that have different income tax rates. Based upon our apportionment of income, our effective income tax rate could fluctuate. Changes in income tax laws in the United States or countries where we presently have operations may further limit our ability to utilize our net operating losses. Any further limitation on our ability to utilize our net operating losses could adversely affect our results of operations. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO IDENTIFY AND INTEGRATE FUTURE ACQUISITIONS. We may pursue strategic acquisitions that we consider reasonable in light of the revenues and the results of operations we believe we will be able to achieve from these acquisitions, once combined and integrated with us. The cost of acquisitions within the industry has generally increased over time. Additionally, we compete for acquisitions with certain other industry competitors, some of which have greater financial and other resources than us. Increased demand for acquisitions may result in fewer acquisition opportunities for us as well as higher acquisition prices. Although we believe opportunities may exist for us to grow through acquisitions, we may not be able to identify and consummate acquisitions on acceptable terms. If we do acquire another company or companies, we may not be able to profitably manage and successfully integrate the acquired company or companies with our operations, sales and marketing efforts without substantial costs or delays. Acquisitions involve a number of potential risks, including the potential loss of customers and contracts, increased leverage and debt service requirements, combining disparate company cultures and facilities and operating in geographically diverse markets. An inability to identify and/or integrate future acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 17 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. NONE 