Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks regarding our company. These and other risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. You should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report. Risks Related to our Dissolution and Plan of Liquidation Our shareholders may not approve our dissolution and plan of liquidation. Our dissolution in accordance with our plan of liquidation is dependent upon approval by our shareholders. If our shareholders fail to approve our dissolution and plan of liquidation, we will then evaluate the alternatives available to us at that time, including, but not limited to, continuing to operate our business or selling our business, non-cash assets or company. We believe the announcement of the recommendation by our Board of our dissolution and the adoption of the plan of liquidation and the filing of our proxy statement for our Annual Meeting will result in the loss of customers, suppliers and other business relationships. Pending our shareholders' vote on our dissolution and plan of liquidation, we have ceased manufacturing products, purchasing materials and products and undertaking commitments for sales of our products except for those products that we have remaining in inventory. As a result, we believe that many, if not all, of our customers, including our two major customers, will transition their 7 business to our competitors. Therefore, if our shareholders fail to approve our dissolution and plan of liquidation, our business will be materially and adversely impacted and we will not be able to continue to operate our business as it existed prior to the recommendation of our dissolution and the adoption of the plan of liquidation by our Board and may not be able to operate our business at all. Timing of the dissolution and liquidation is uncertain. As soon as practicable after the Annual Meeting, if our shareholders approve our dissolution and the plan of liquidation, we intend to file a certificate of dissolution with the Department of Treasury of the State of New Jersey and sell and monetize our remaining non-cash assets. There are a number of factors that could delay our anticipated timetable, including, but not limited to, the following: o lawsuits or other claims asserted against us; o legal, regulatory or administrative delays; o inability to sell and monetize or delays in selling and monetizing certain non-cash assets on terms acceptable to us; o delays in settling our remaining liabilities; and o delays in liquidating and dissolving subsidiaries in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. We cannot determine with certainty the amount of the distributions to shareholders. We cannot determine at this time the amount of distributions to our shareholders pursuant to the plan of liquidation. This determination depends on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the amount required to satisfy or settle known and unknown liabilities, the resolution of litigation, including our existing lawsuits, and other contingent liabilities, the net proceeds, if any, from the sale and monetization of our remaining non-cash assets, including our inventory, our property in the PRC and our auction rate securities, and other factors. Examples of uncertainties that could reduce the value of or eliminate distributions to our shareholders include unanticipated costs relating to: o the defense, satisfaction or settlement of lawsuits or other claims that may be made or threatened against us in the future; o the pending lawsuits and claims against us, including in the event a proposed settlement in a pending lawsuit is rejected by the court or is not effected for any other reason; o delays in our liquidation and dissolution, including due to our inability to sell and monetize non-cash assets or settle claims; and o delays in our liquidating and dissolving subsidiaries in domestic and foreign jurisdictions. As a result, we cannot determine with certainty the amount of distributions to our shareholders. Continued failure of auctions of our auction rate securities or sales of our auction rate securities below their current carrying value can affect the timing of the dissolution and liquidation and the amount of distributions shareholders receive in the dissolution and liquidation. As of June 28, 2008, the carrying value of our auction rate securities was $18.5 million. This carrying value is net of an unrealized loss of approximately $5.1 million which was recorded as of June 28, 2008 due to our determination that the estimated value of these securities as of that date was less than their par value. During our fiscal year ended June 28, 2008, we received net proceeds of $6.9 million from the sale 8 of auction rate securities at 100% of par value, of which $1.9 million was received after market uncertainties and liquidity issues arose in the market for auction rate securities. Additionally, we have experienced redemptions of approximately $1.8 million of our auction rate securities at 100% of par value subsequent to June 28, 2008 and have consented to tender $2.1 million in par value of our auction rate securities pursuant to an offer by the issuer to purchase such securities for approximately $1.9 million. However, we are unable at this time to predict whether the purchase of the tendered auction rate securities will be completed or when we will be able to sell our remaining auction rate securities and for what amount. Issuers and market makers are exploring alternatives that may improve liquidity of our auction rate securities and the New York Attorney General and the Securities and Exchange Commission recently entered into an agreement with the investment bank that sold us our auction rate securities under which the investment bank agreed to use its best efforts to facilitate issuer redemptions of auction rate securities of institutional investors such as us. However, we cannot assure you that such efforts will be successful and, therefore, there is a risk that there could be a further decline in value of our auction rate securities. Continued failed auctions may affect the fair value of these securities, and require us to further adjust the carrying value of the investment through an impairment assessment and we may receive less than anticipated proceeds when we sell these securities, which would reduce the amount of distributions shareholders receive in the dissolution and liquidation. We may not be able to sell our property in the PRC or, if we are able to sell our property, the net proceeds from such sale may be less than the amount estimated. Our ability to sell our property in the PRC is substantially dependent upon the current real estate market and economic conditions in the area of the PRC where our property is located. The PRC real estate market and business environment is currently under significant pressure, in part due to the worldwide financial crisis. Additionally, we are uncertain what impact our announcement of the recommendation by our Board of our dissolution and the adoption of the plan of liquidation will have on our ability to sell our property. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sell our property in the PRC for the amount estimated or its carrying value for purposes of calculating the potential distributions to shareholders or at all. We may not be able to settle all of our liabilities to creditors. We have current and future liabilities to creditors. Our estimated distribution to shareholders takes into account all of our known liabilities and certain possible contingent liabilities and our best estimate of the amount reasonably required to satisfy such liabilities. As part of the wind-down process, we will attempt to settle all liabilities with our creditors. We cannot assure you that unknown liabilities that we have not accounted for will not arise, that we will be able to settle all of our liabilities or that they can be settled for the amounts we have estimated for purposes of calculating the range of distribution to shareholders. If we are unable to reach an agreement with a creditor relating to a liability, that creditor may bring a lawsuit against us. Amounts required to settle liabilities or defend lawsuits in excess of the amounts estimated by us will reduce the amount of net proceeds available for distribution to shareholders. Shareholders could be liable to the extent of liquidating distributions received if contingent reserves are insufficient to satisfy our liabilities. If we fail to create an adequate contingency reserve for payment of our expenses and liabilities, or if we transfer our assets to a liquidating trust and the contingency reserve and the assets held by the liquidating trust are less than the amount ultimately found payable in respect of expenses and liabilities, each shareholder could be held liable for the payment to creditors of such shareholder's pro rata portion of the deficiency, limited, however, to the amounts previously received by the shareholder in distributions from us or the liquidating trust. Accordingly, you could be required to return some or all distributions made to you. In such an event, you could receive nothing under the plan of liquidation. 9 If a court holds at any time that we have failed to make adequate provision for our expenses and liabilities or if the amount ultimately required to be paid in respect of such liabilities exceeds the amount available from the contingency reserve and the assets of the liquidating trust, our creditors could seek an injunction against the making of distributions under the plan of liquidation on the grounds that the amounts to be distributed are needed to provide for the payment of our expenses and liabilities. Any such action could delay or substantially diminish the cash distributions to be made to shareholders and/or holders of beneficial interests of the liquidating trust under the plan of liquidation. Shareholders may not be able to recognize a loss for federal income tax purposes until they receive a final distribution from us. As a result of our liquidation, for United States federal income tax purposes, shareholders will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between (i) the sum of the amount of cash distributed to them and the aggregate fair market value at the time of distribution of any property distributed to them (including transfers of assets to a liquidating trust), and (ii) their tax basis in their shares of our capital stock. Any loss may generally be recognized only when the final distribution has been received from us. In connection with the dissolution, our stock transfer books will close, after which it may not be possible for shareholders to trade in, or transfer, our stock. In connection with the dissolution, we intend to delist our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market, close our stock transfer books and discontinue recording transfers of our common stock at which time our common stock and stock certificates evidencing the common stock will not be assignable or transferable on our books except by will, intestate succession or operation of law. We expect to terminate registration of our common stock under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which will substantially reduce publicly available information about our company. Our common stock is currently registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, which requires that we, and our officers and directors with respect to Section 16 of that Act, comply with certain public reporting and proxy statement requirements thereunder. Compliance with these requirements is costly and time-consuming. We anticipate that, if our shareholders approve our dissolution and plan of liquidation, in order to curtail expenses, we will, after filing a certificate of dissolution, discontinue making filings under the Exchange Act. However, we anticipate that we would continue to file with the SEC current reports on Form 8-K to disclose material events relating to our dissolution and plan of liquidation until the effectiveness of the termination of the registration of our common stock by filing a Form 15 with the Commission. No further shareholder approval will be required. Approval of our dissolution and plan of liquidation requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast at a meeting duly called at which a quorum is present. If our shareholders approve our dissolution and plan of liquidation, we will be authorized to cease operations, sell, license or otherwise dispose of our assets and dissolve the Company and its subsidiaries without further approval of our shareholders, unless required to do so by New Jersey law. Our Board may abandon or delay implementation of the plan of liquidation even if approved by our shareholders. Even if our shareholders approve our dissolution and plan of liquidation, our Board has reserved the right, in its discretion, to the extent permitted by New Jersey law, to abandon or delay implementation of the plan of liquidation, in order, for example, to permit us to pursue new business opportunities or strategic transactions. 10 We may be the potential target of an acquisition. Until we dissolve and terminate registration of our common stock under the Exchange Act, we will continue to exist as a public company. We could become an acquisition target, through a hostile tender offer or other means, as a result of our business operations, non-cash assets, cash holdings or for other reasons. If we become the target of a successful acquisition, the Board could potentially decide to either delay or, subject to applicable New Jersey law, revoke our dissolution and plan of liquidation, and our shareholders may not receive any proceeds that would have otherwise been distributed in connection with the liquidation. Our Board members may have a potential conflict of interest in recommending approval of our dissolution and plan of liquidation. As a result of the right to acquire shares of our common stock pursuant to stock options that may be exercised, compensation and benefits payable as a result of termination of employment or other events, an indemnification insurance policy purchased for the benefit of directors and our indemnification obligations to directors, members of our Board may be deemed to have a potential conflict of interest in recommending approval of our dissolution and the plan of liquidation. Risks Related to Our Business If our shareholders do not approve our dissolution and plan of liquidation and we seek to continue to operate our business, the following risks will apply. Our auditor's have expressed substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a "going concern." The auditors' report for our consolidated financial statements for the three years ended June 28, 2008 state that since we have ceased manufacturing products, purchasing materials and products and undertaking commitments for sales of our products, except for products that we have remaining in inventory, pending shareholder approval of our dissolution and plan of liquidation, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. A "going-concern" opinion indicates that although there is substantial doubt, the financial statements have been prepared on a going-concern basis and do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. If we continue to incur substantial losses, we may not have sufficient liquidity to meet our working capital needs. Although we believe that we have sufficient working capital to fund our operations for at least the next twelve months, our ability to fund our operating requirements and maintain an adequate level of working capital and liquidity may be impaired if we continue to incur losses, fail to generate substantial growth in sales of our products or fail to control operating expenses. If our shareholders do not approve our dissolution and plan of liquidation, it is uncertain whether we will be able to generate sufficient sales of our products to meet our cash flow needs and avoid incurring continued losses. If we require funding to meet our cash flow needs, we may seek to obtain such funding through, among other things, loans or the issuance of debt or equity securities. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities or by issuing debt that is convertible into equity, existing shareholders will experience dilution in their ownership percentage. Moreover, additional funding or capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We may experience liquidity issues if our reliance on financing facilities increases. Our primary source of liquidity has been provided by our short-term investments, funds provided by the collection of accounts receivable and borrowing availability under our financing facilities. Our borrowing 11 capacity under the import facility provided by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited ("HSBC") was reduced during calendar year 2005 from $24.0 million in January 2005 to $14.0 million in September 2005. In January 2006, the HSBC financing facilities were further reduced to an aggregate of approximately $8.2 million and we were required to provide cash deposits pledged as security in the amount of approximately $8.2 million against the facility. During fiscal 2007, we further reduced the HSBC financing facilities by $3.0 million to $5.2 million and obtained $3.0 million of alternative financing from two other Hong Kong-based financial institutions. During fiscal 2008, we eliminated one of the alternative financing facilities, leaving us with an aggregate of approximately $6.2 million with our Hong Kong-based lenders, and established a demand financing facility with The CIT Group/Commercial Services, Inc. ("CIT") for up to $15 million and a credit line with Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. ("Citigroup") with a current aggregate credit limit of $10,925,000. The CIT financing facility is secured by a first priority lien on, among other things, our America's accounts receivable and inventory and the Citigroup financing facility is secured by a first priority lien and security interest in our remaining auction rate securities. See Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, "Liquidity and Capital Resources," for additional information on our financing facilities. On November 3, 2008, CIT notified us that an event of default existed under the CIT financing facility as a result of our press release on October 30, 2008 that we have elected to wind down operations and liquidate assets. Currently, CIT has not exercised its rights to accelerate our obligation to repay the CIT financing facility, but has temporarily discontinued making loans under the facility until it receives additional financial information regarding our dissolution and the plan of liquidation. If CIT was to demand repayment at a time when we did not otherwise have sufficient borrowing capacity or liquid assets that would enable us to repay the CIT financing facility in full, CIT would be entitled to foreclose on our America's pledged inventory. This could result in inventory being sold at a significant discount to its carrying value and could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to fund our operations. Due to our recent losses, we may need to increase our reliance on financing facilities, whether through our current lenders or other financial institutions and, as a result, we may face liquidity issues due to potential funding limits and debt service requirements imposed by lenders. Additionally, we may not be able to secure such financing on reasonable terms or at all. A significant increase in our indebtedness could increase our financing costs, interfere with our ability to operate our business effectively and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Continued failure of auctions of our auction rate securities can continue to affect our liquidity. As of June 28, 2008, the carrying value of our auction rate securities was $18.5 million, of which $16.8 million were classified as "Long-term investments" on our consolidated balance sheet. Our portfolio of auction rate securities are AAA rated, long-term debt obligations secured by student loans, with approximately 100% of such collateral being guaranteed by the U.S. Government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program. Liquidity for these securities has been provided by an auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at pre-determined intervals usually every 28-35 days. In the past, the auction process allowed investors to obtain immediate liquidity, if needed, by selling the securities at face value. The current disruptions in the credit markets have adversely affected the auction market for these types of securities. As previously reported during Fiscal 2008, we have recently experienced failed auctions for certain of our auction rate securities that have gone to auction resulting in our inability to sell those securities. The auction rate securities continue to pay interest at default interest rates which are generally higher than the current market rate and there has been no change in the ratings of these securities to date. However, in certain instances the interest rate for some of the Company's auction rate securities may reset to a zero percent interest rate due to a feature of the relevant formula for determining the interest rate. To date, only a small percentage of the auction rate securities have reset to a zero percent interest rate. These securities may reset to a higher interest rate in the future. In the event that a greater percentage of the Company's auction rate securities reset to a zero percent interest rate and do not 12 subsequently reset to a higher interest rate, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Based on our expected operating cash flows and other sources of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, it is possible that the potential lack of liquidity in our auction rate security investments could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund our operations. During Fiscal 2008, we received net proceeds of $6.9 million from the sale of auction rate securities at 100% of par value, of which $1.9 million was received after market uncertainties and liquidity issues arose in the market for auction rate securities. Additionally, we have experienced redemptions of approximately $1.8 million of our auction rate securities at 100% of par value subsequent to June 28, 2008 and have consented to tender $2.1 million in par value of our auction rate securities pursuant to an offer by the issuer to purchase such securities for approximately $1.9 million. However, we cannot predict whether future auctions for related to auction rate securities will be successful or whether we will otherwise be able to sell such securities. We continue to seek alternative short-term financing sources for reducing our exposure to the auction rate market, but may not be able to identify any such alternative. Although we currently have sufficient working capital to finance our operations in the near term, if our working capital is insufficient in the future and we are not able to monetize some or all of our auction rate securities or other assets at that time, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to finance our future ongoing operations or other activities. Continued failure of auctions of our auction rate securities or the foreclosure of our pledged auction rate securities by Citigroup may impair the value of our auction rate securities. If any of the issuers of the auction rate securities are unable to successfully close future auctions and/or their credit ratings deteriorate and if the market values of our auction rate securities decline further, we may be required to record an additional impairment charge on these investments. Additionally, if Citigroup forecloses on our pledged auction rate securities to repay the Citigroup Facility and sells such securities at a discount to their par value, we may be required to record an other-than-temporary impairment charge on these investments. If we are required to record an other-than-temporary impairment charge on these investments, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face significant risks related to the 35mm single-use and traditional film camera markets. Based upon available third-party market research data, the 35mm single-use and traditional film camera markets are in permanent decline and both markets are expected to continue to decline further. See Item 1, Business, "Film Camera Market Trends," above. We depend on third-party suppliers, and our net sales, gross profits and margins could be adversely affected if we encounter supplier issues and/or fail to manage supplier issues properly. We purchase certain components from our suppliers and outsource the manufacture of certain of our 35mm single-use and traditional film camera and other products for sale to our customers worldwide. The term "components" includes film, batteries, packaging and any other items used in the manufacture of our products by our company or outsourced manufacturers. Our manufacturing, sales and distribution operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components and products and our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components and products at reasonable prices in time to meet critical manufacturing, sales and distribution schedules. Given the variety of products that we offer and might offer in the future, the dispersal of our suppliers and outsourced manufacturers across the globe, the diminishing number of our suppliers of certain components and the long lead times that are required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, adverse circumstances, issues and problems could arise in planning production, procurement and managing inventory levels that could negatively impact our business and increase our financial exposure and risk. Since we have suspended purchases of materials and components pending our shareholders' vote on our dissolution and 13 plan of liquidation, it is not certain whether we will be able to resume purchasing materials and components from our suppliers, or what the terms of such purchases will be, if our shareholders do not approve our dissolution and plan of liquidation and we seek to continue to operate our business. Other supplier problems that we could face include component and product shortages, excess supply and risks related to fixed-price contracts that would require us to pay more than the open market price, as more fully described below. o Supply shortages. We may experience a shortage of supply of, or a delay in receiving, certain components and products as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, diminishing sources of supply or other problems experienced by suppliers. If shortages or delays occur or persist, the price of these components and products may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues or the components and products may not be available at all. We may not be able to secure enough components and/or products at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build, sell and distribute new products in a timely manner in the quantities or configurations needed. Accordingly, our revenue, gross profits and margins could suffer as we could lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or be unable to pass on price increases to our customers. If we cannot adequately address supply issues, we may have to re-engineer and/or seek other sources for some components and products, resulting in additional costs, delays or insufficient supply of products for our customers. The number of film suppliers has diminished and we currently rely on our two major competitors in the 35mm single-use camera market to supply all of the film used in the manufacture of our single-use cameras. If either of these suppliers reduces or eliminates its supply of film to us and we are unable to secure film from alternative sources at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality, we will not be able to manufacture the quantities of 35mm single-use cameras necessary to fulfill our customer orders and our financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. o Oversupply. In order to secure products or components for the production of products, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or might purchase components in advance of forecasted requirements, or we may enter into non-cancelable commitments with suppliers. If we fail to properly anticipate customer demand, an oversupply of products and/or components could result in excess or obsolete inventory. Our announcement of the recommendation of our dissolution and the adoption of a plan of liquidation by our Board will likely result in the loss of many, if not all, of our customers, including our major customers and may increase our risk of excess or obsolete inventory. This excess or obsolete inventory may result in lowering the carrying value of these components and/or products by recording an inventory charge which could adversely affect our gross profits and margins. o Long-term pricing commitments. As a result of binding price or purchase commitments with suppliers, we may be obligated to purchase components and/or products at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. In the event that we become committed to purchase components and/or products in advance of forecasted requirements and/or for prices in excess of the current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components and/or products at the times required and/or at lower prices. This excess in component purchases and in purchase price over current market price may result in lowering the carrying value of those components and/or products by recording an inventory charge that could adversely affect our gross profits and margins. Pending our shareholders' vote on our dissolution and plan of liquidation, we have ceased making such component purchase commitments. In many instances, we rely on offshore suppliers, including, but not limited to, manufacturers in the PRC, for the production of cameras and other products and other suppliers in Asia for product assembly and manufacture. Regional economic, business, environmental, political, medical or military conditions or events could disrupt supplies in foreign locations. 14 We are dependent on third-party service providers to provide distribution facilities for all of our operations in the United States, Latin America and Europe. The warehousing and distribution services for our (i) United States and Latin American inventory is handled from two distribution facilities operated by third-party service providers in San Pedro, California and Memphis, Tennessee; and (ii) European inventory is currently handled from a distribution facility operated by a third-party service provider in the United Kingdom. Our products are prepared for shipment and shipped to our customers by such third-party service providers from these distribution facilities. Any failure by these third-party service providers to maintain a regular flow of products from us to our customers or any significant interruption in the business of these service providers or the operation of these distribution facilities due to natural disasters, accidents, system failures, work stoppages or other causes would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our third-party distribution facility in the United Kingdom has proposed an increase in the costs for their services due to the decrease in volume of our business with such provider. If the cost of the services with any of our third-party distribution facilities increases, our gross profits and margins could decrease. Additionally, our announcement of the approval of our dissolution and plan of liquidation by our Board and the likely resultant loss of many, if not all, of our customers, including our major customers, may result in the loss of services provided by one or more of our third-party distribution facilities due to the decrease in volume of our business. The camera and photographic products industry is highly competitive. As a manufacturer, marketer and distributor of 35mm single-use and traditional film cameras, we encounter intense competition from a number of companies, including, without limitation, Fuji, Kodak and other 35mm single-use camera manufacturers, each of which has or may have longer operating histories, more established markets, better brand recognition, more extensive facilities and, in some cases, greater resources than we have. Maintaining a competitive advantage against our competitors depends on our ability to develop and manufacture or purchase from outsourced manufacturers high quality cameras at the lowest cost and our ability to market and sell cameras profitably. These competitive pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and/or increased operating costs, such as for marketing and sales incentives, resulting in lower revenues, gross margins and income. We are dependent on a small number of customers. We have a small number of customers that represent a high percentage of our revenues. Our products are sold in very competitive markets. Our competitors may adopt more aggressive policies and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products, which could result in a loss of sales or of customers. The loss of sales or of one or more of these important customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The loss of Wal-Mart or Walgreens as customers would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our announcement of the recommendation of our dissolution and the adoption of a plan of liquidation by our Board and our decision to cease manufacturing and undertaking commitments for sales of our products except for products that we have remaining in inventory pending our shareholders' vote on our dissolution and the plan of liquidation, will likely result in the loss of many, if not all, of our customers, including Wal-Mart, Walgreens and other important customers. We are exposed to credit risk associated with sales to our customers. We sell a significant number of products to a small number of customers. Receivables arising from these sales are generally not collateralized. We monitor the creditworthiness of our customers and review outstanding receivable balances for collectibility on a regular basis and record provisions for doubtful accounts, sales allowances and sales returns, as necessary. If we are unable to collect or timely collect outstanding receivables from our customers or our customers seek protection from their creditors under the federal bankruptcy code or applicable foreign bankruptcy regulations, our business and results of 15 operations may be materially adversely affected. One or more of our customers may withhold or delay payment of outstanding receivables after our announcement of the recommendation of our dissolution and the adoption of a plan of liquidation by our Board. Our strategies may not succeed. During the normal course of our business, we evaluate, develop and implement various short-term and long-term business strategies. These strategies required, and may continue to require, significant financial and human resources. If our shareholders do not approve our dissolution and plan of liquidation, we will explore the alternatives and strategies, if any, then available to our company. There can be no assurance that any such strategies, if implemented, will be successful. The failure of such strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to identify and integrate future acquisitions. We may pursue strategic acquisitions that we consider reasonable in light of the revenues and the results of operations we believe we will be able to achieve from these acquisitions, once combined and integrated with us. We compete for acquisitions with other industry competitors, some of which have greater financial and other resources than us. Increased demand for acquisitions may result in fewer acquisition opportunities for us as well as higher acquisition prices. Acquisitions involve a number of potential risks, including the potential loss of customers and contracts, increased leverage and debt service requirements, combining disparate company cultures and facilities and operating in geographically diverse markets. An inability to identify and/or integrate future acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our internal control over financial reporting may be insufficient to detect in a timely manner misstatements that could occur in our financial statements in amounts that may be material. We have previously identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and they all were remediated as of June 30, 2007. We may, however, experience significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future, which, if not remediated, may render us unable to detect in a timely manner misstatements that could occur in our financial statements in amounts that may be material and which may require significant financial and human resources to address and remediate. Our announcement of the recommendation of our dissolution and the adoption of a plan of liquidation by our Board may result in the loss of certain of our employees, which may impact our ability to detect in a timely manner misstatements that could occur in our financial statements in amounts that may be material. For a discussion of our remediation efforts, see Item 9A, Controls and Procedures, below and the periodic reports that we previously filed with the SEC. We may not continue to meet NASDAQ listing standards regarding minimum per-share prices. On February 19, 2008 and October 1, 2008, we received deficiency notices from NASDAQ indicating that we did not file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended December 28, 2007 and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended June 28, 2008, respectively, and, therefore, we were not in compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14). The letters stated that our common stock would be subject to delisting unless we requested a hearing before a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel. Since we filed our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended December 28, 2007 on March 31, 2008, Nasdaq notified us that at that time, we were in compliance with the listing requirements. With respect to the delay in filing our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended June 28, 2008, we have requested a hearing before a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel. The hearing is currently scheduled for November 20, 2008. Pending the Panel's decision, our common 16 stock will remain listed. However, there can be no assurance the Panel will grant our request for continued listing. Under NASDAQ continued listing standard one (Rule 4450(a)), companies listed on the NASDAQ Global Market are required to have, among other criteria, a minimum per-share price of at least $1.00. A company may be de-listed from the NASDAQ Global Market if its common stock trades below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days and, after receiving a deficiency notice from NASDAQ, does not maintain a minimum bid price of at least $1.00 for 10 consecutive trading days within a period of 180 days from the date of such notice. If our common stock is de-listed from NASDAQ, we will face a significant reduction in the liquidity of our common stock and a material reduction in the per-share price of our common stock. In addition, any such de-listing could harm our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and may result in the loss of confidence in our financial stability by suppliers, customers and employees. If our securities are de-listed from the NASDAQ Global Market, we may face a lengthy process to re-list our securities, if we are able to re-list them at all, and the liquidity that NASDAQ provides will no longer be available to investors. We cannot give investors in our common stock any assurance that we will be able to continue to timely file our annual and quarterly reports with the SEC or maintain compliance with the $1.00 per-share minimum price requirement for continued listing on NASDAQ or that our stock will not be de-listed by NASDAQ. If our shareholders approve our dissolution and plan of liquidation, we will request that our common stock be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate and/or continue to decline. The stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies and that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results of such companies. These broad market movements may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In many instances, securities class action litigation has been instituted following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities. Such litigation was previously instituted against us. If such litigation is again instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could harm our business. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, below and Note 15, Litigation and Settlements, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our future income tax rates could increase and our tax positions may be challenged. A number of factors will affect our income tax rate in the future, and the combined effect of these factors could result in an increase in our effective income tax rate as compared to our effective income tax rate in fiscal 2008. This potential increase in future effective income tax rates would adversely affect net income in future periods. We operate in different countries that have different income tax rates. Based upon our apportionment of income, our effective income tax rate could fluctuate. Changes in income tax laws in the United States or countries where we presently have operations may further limit our ability to utilize our net operating losses. Any further limitation on our ability to utilize our net operating losses could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our cost-reduction initiatives may not be successful. As a result of our continued evaluation of our cost structure and our announcement of the recommendation by our Board of our dissolution and the adoption of a plan of liquidation, we reduced certain costs including, among other things, employee costs as a result of our eliminating certain employee positions and reducing the size of our operations in the Americas, Europe and Asia. The expected benefits from these initiatives are subject to many estimates and assumptions, including, but not 17 limited to, assumptions regarding (i) the amount and timing of cost reductions we can achieve; (ii) our ability to develop and maintain relationships with outsourced manufacturers for the design, co-development and purchase of our products; (iii) our ability to meet customer demands and fulfill customer service obligations; and (iv) the costs and timing of activities undertaken in connection with these initiatives. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties that are difficult to predict and beyond our control. If these assumptions are not realized, or if other unforeseen events occur, the initiatives may not be successful and our financial condition, results of operations and ability to compete could be adversely affected. See Note 18, Other Charges, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The termination of our processing agreement with the PRC would disrupt our operations. Our operations are substantially dependent upon our ability to manufacture and assemble our products in the PRC. Our current processing agreement with the PRC governmental entities, which allows us to operate in the PRC, expires in October 2016. As a result of our Board's recommendation of our dissolution and the adoption of a plan of liquidation, we have provided the required twelve months notice of termination of the processing agreement to the PRC governmental entities. If our shareholders do not approve our dissolution and plan of liquidation, and we cannot enter into an arrangement that will permit us to continue to operate in the PRC under similar terms and conditions, our financial condition, results of operations and ability to carry on our business could be materially adversely affected. Most of our operations in the PRC are subject to regulation by local governmental agencies. The continuing viability of our PRC agreements is critical to our business operations. We manufacture a large number of the components used in our cameras and assemble all of our own manufactured finished products at our facility in the PRC. During fiscal 2008, based upon production demand, we had approximately 1,300 to 3,300 workers at our manufacturing facility in the PRC either employed by our PRC subsidiary or provided through our agreements with various PRC government or quasi-government entities. We are responsible for their wages, food and housing and must comply with a variety of local labor and employee benefit laws covering these workers. While we believe we are in substantial compliance with applicable laws as currently enforced, these laws are subject to modification and interpretation by local governmental authorities. We cannot predict the effect of any future modifications to or strict enforcement of the existing laws. In addition, the termination or material modification of any of our agreements with the PRC governmental or quasi-government entities could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Since we have ceased manufacturing our products pending our shareholders' vote on our dissolution and plan of liquidation, we have terminated the employment of many of the workers at our manufacturing facility. If our shareholders do not approve our dissolution and plan of liquidation and we seek to continue to operate our business, it is uncertain whether we will be able to rehire sufficient, qualified workers to resume our manufacturing operations and what the terms of the agreements with the PRC government or quasi-government entities will be. We are exposed to political, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. We have significant operations outside the United States. We currently have operations in the Americas, Europe and Asia. Further, we obtain raw materials, components and finished camera products from foreign suppliers, particularly in Asia, and import into the PRC those materials, components and products obtained from suppliers outside of the PRC which may require certain approvals by the PRC, including but not limited to certificates, permits and licenses. Accordingly, our business is subject to the political, economic, regulatory and other risks that are inherent in operating in foreign countries. These risks include, but are not limited to: o the difficulty of ensuring that foreign suppliers and workers are complying with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding manufacturing, safety and environmental standards; 18 o the difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through foreign legal systems; o trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; o the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; o difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of foreign labor regulations; o inability to obtain approvals or authorizations necessary to import materials, components and/or products into our manufacturing facility or increased costs relating thereto; o required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; o changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; and o increased costs and risks of doing business in a number of foreign jurisdictions. We are reliant on certain authorizations by the PRC to import materials used in the manufacture of our products into our manufacturing facility. Our current authorizations expire between January 13, 2009 and April 8, 2009 and include limitations on our ability to import certain materials into the PRC. We are uncertain whether further authorizations will be issued or what the terms of any such further authorization will be. If our shareholders do not approve our dissolution and plan of liquidation, our inability to obtain further authorizations on reasonable terms, although not expected to impact our ability to manufacture our products, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Relocation time and expenses could result in substantial losses. If we determine it is necessary to relocate our manufacturing facilities from the PRC, or to another location within or outside of the PRC, due to confiscation, expropriation, nationalization, embargoes, governmental restrictions or for other regulatory, business and/or financial reasons, we would incur substantial operating and capital losses, including losses resulting from business interruption and delays in production. In addition, as a result of a relocation of our manufacturing equipment and other assets, we may incur relatively higher manufacturing costs, which could reduce sales and decrease the gross profits and margins on the products we manufacture. Relocation of our manufacturing operations could also result in disruption in the delivery of our products, which could, in turn, reduce demand for our products in the future. We are exposed to risks associated with intellectual property used in our products. Our products use technology which may be protected by United States or foreign patents. The right to use such intellectual property is subject to the availability of licenses from the owners of the intellectual property. If licenses are not available, or are only available on onerous terms, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Third parties also may claim that we, or the customers we indemnify, are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Even if we believe that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management's attention and resources away from our business. Claims of intellectual property infringement also may require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards or cease marketing of certain products subject to the claims. Even if we have an agreement with a third party to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations to us. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all or on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could suffer. Those claims for which legal proceedings have been initiated against us are discussed in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, and in Note 17, Litigation and Settlements, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We have also received notifications from two entities, one of which was a significant 19 customer, alleging that certain of our digital cameras infringe upon those entities' respective patents. We have engaged in discussions with these entities regarding resolution of the claims. Based on our initial assessment of these two claims, infringement of one or more patents is probable if the patents are valid. Based upon the licensing discussions to date, we preliminarily estimate the potential royalties due to these two claimants for digital camera sales through June 28, 2008 to be between $0 and approximately $6.7 million in the aggregate. The actual royalty amounts, if any, for past and future sales are dependent upon the outcome of the negotiations. We have notified certain of our suppliers of our right to be indemnified by the suppliers in the event we are required to pay royalties or damages to either claimant. We are unable to reasonably estimate the amount of the potential loss, if any, within the range of estimates relating to these claims. Accordingly, no amounts have been accrued related to these claims as of June 28, 2008. If these or other claims are determined to be valid, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to manufacture and sell single-use cameras is substantially dependent on our licensing agreement with Fuji. Our business is substantially dependent on our license from Fuji, which granted us a worldwide non-exclusive right to use certain Fuji patents and patent applications related to single-use cameras. The license extends until the later of the expiration of the last of the licensed Fuji patents or February 26, 2021. After the term of the license expires, we expect to continue to be able to manufacture and sell single-use cameras without a license. If, however, the license is terminated prior to the expiration of the patents, we may not be able to continue to manufacture and sell single-use cameras and, as a result, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The loss of our licensing agreement with Polaroid could impact our sales. We currently market and sell our branded single-use and traditional film camera products under the Polaroid brand name pursuant to license agreements with Polaroid which expire on February 1, 2009 and January 30, 2009, respectively. We have engaged in discussions with Polaroid regarding the renewal of the single-use camera license agreement, but have suspended these discussions pending our shareholders' vote on our dissolution and plan of liquidation. If our shareholders do not approve our dissolution and plan of liquidation, it is uncertain whether we will be able to renew the single-use camera license agreement. If the single-use camera license agreement is terminated prior to its expiration or if we are unable to renew it upon its expiration, our sales volumes and/or prices will decrease, resulting in lower revenues, gross margins and income and our financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. We are exposed to interest rate and exchange rate risk. As a result of our global operating and financing activities, we are exposed to fluctuation in currency exchange rates and interest rates, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Exchange rates and interest rates in certain markets in which we do business tend to be more volatile than those in the United States and Western Europe. If there is a significant devaluation of the currency in a specific country, the prices of our products will increase relative to that country's currency and our products may be less competitive in that country. We generally do not engage in currency hedging activities. The PRC government announced on July 21, 2005 that its currency will no longer be pegged to the U.S. Dollar. Instead, the exchange rates for the Chinese Yuan, or Renminbi, will be determined by a basket of foreign currencies and continues to fluctuate. Currently, we generate nominal net sales valued in Renminbi. Net sales recorded in Hong Kong are denominated in Hong Kong Dollars, the exchange rate of which has not been affected by the Yuan revaluation and is still pegged to the U.S. Dollar. Significant 20 fluctuations in the exchange rates on the currency revaluation could have a materially adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. The interest rate related to our Hong Kong financing facilities provided by HSBC and other Hong-Kong based financial institutions is based on a spread over the Hong Kong Interbank Offered Rate on import loans denominated in Hong Kong Dollars and over the U.S. Prime Rate, London Interbank Offered Rate or the Singapore Interbank Offered Rate on import loans denominated in other currencies. A significant change in these rates could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currently, we are not utilizing any interest rate protection agreements to limit our exposure to this risk. We are dependent on a small group of key personnel. Our business is managed by a small number of key management and operating personnel. The loss of key management and operating personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business. We believe our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract highly skilled and qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. We may not be able to hire the necessary personnel to implement our business strategies, or we may need to pay higher compensation for employees than currently budgeted and/or anticipated in the future. Our inability to attract and retain such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. International trade restrictions could adversely affect our business and growth. The United States, the PRC, Hong Kong, the European Union or other countries where we do business may impose trade restrictions that could adversely affect our operations. In addition, the United States is currently monitoring various PRC practices, including trade, investment and government procurement, as well as the PRC's compliance with various multilateral and bilateral agreements. We cannot predict whether the United States will take future trade actions against the PRC that may result in increased tariffs against PRC products, including products that we import into the United States. Our operations may be impaired as a result of disasters, business interruptions or similar events. Disasters such as hurricanes, typhoons, earthquakes, or other acts of nature, terrorist attacks, fire, water or electricity failure, or accidents affecting our operating activities, facilities, and employees' and customers' health could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In particular, our operations in the PRC, as well as most of our outsourced manufacturers, suppliers and service providers involved in the manufacturing of components and products are located within a relatively close proximity of one another in the PRC. Therefore, any disaster that strikes within close proximity of that geographic area could disrupt our business and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In the event of another outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or some other disease or health-related issue, our facilities and/or the facilities of our outsourced manufacturers, suppliers and service providers located in Hong Kong, the PRC and other parts of the world could be quarantined, temporarily closed and/or disrupted. If such an outbreak occurs, it could delay or prevent us from developing new products or manufacturing, testing or shipping our current or future products, and may require us to find other providers of such services and/or products, which may be unavailable or more expensive. Further, if a SARS or other disease outbreak or other health-related issue has an adverse impact on the businesses of our customers, it could reduce the size and/or frequency of our customers' purchases, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Our business depends in part on our ability to successfully anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. Additionally, we are uncertain what impact our announcement of the approval of our 21 dissolution and plan of liquidation by our Board will have on these risks or what the impact of these risks might be if our shareholders do not approve our dissolution and plan of liquidation and we seek to continue to operate our business. We cannot assure you that such risks will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 