Item 1A. Risk Factors - --------------------- Fluctuations in Operating Revenues Historically, the Company's operating revenues have been tied to national and regional economic conditions, especially those impacting the manufacturing sector, while the Company's expenses have been relatively inelastic. Increasingly, the Company's business is impacted by global economic events. A downturn in general economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations. In addition, shifts in the New England economy between manufacturing and service sectors could materially affect the Company's performance. The Company's operating revenues and expenses have also fluctuated due to unpredictable events, such as adverse weather conditions and customer plant closings. While generally the Company has been able to replace revenues lost due to plant closings through expansion of existing business or replacement with new customers, there can be no assurance that it could do so in the future. The occurrence of such unpredictable events in the future could cause further fluctuations in operating revenues and expenses and materially adversely affect the Company's financial performance. I-5 Availability of Acquisition and Growth Opportunities and Associated Risks The Company believes that its ability to grow depends, in part, upon its ability to acquire additional connecting rail lines. There are a limited number of acquisition targets in the Company's market. In addition, in making acquisitions, the Company competes with other short- line and regional rail operators, some of which are larger and have greater financial resources than the Company. The growing competition for such acquisitions may cause an increase in acquisition prices and related costs, resulting in fewer attractive acquisition opportunities, which could materially adversely affect the Company's growth. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to acquire suitable additional rail lines or that, if acquired, the Company would be able to successfully operate such additional rail lines. Acquisitions of additional rail lines may be subject to regulatory review and approval by the Surface Transportation Board. The Company is a Class II railroad and acquisitions made by Class II railroads are subject to a requirement that employees affected by an acquisition be paid up to one year's severance. Competition For customers located directly on line, which constitute the majority of the Company's freight business, the Company is the only rail carrier providing direct service. However, the Company competes with other freight railroads on the location of new businesses in the region. The Company also competes with other modes of transportation, particularly long-haul trucking companies and ocean-going vessels. Any improvement in the cost or quality of these alternate modes of transportation, for example, legislation granting increases in truck size or allowable weight, could increase this competition and materially affect the Company's business and results of operations. Customer Concentration The Company's ten largest customers accounted for approximately 50% of the Company's operating revenues for 2007 with one customer accounting for more than 13%. The Company's business could be materially adversely affected if any of these customers reduces shipments of commodities transported by the Company. Although in the past the Company has been able to replace revenues lost due to a reduction in existing customers' rail service requirements, no assurance can be given that it could do so in the future. Labor Issues Substantially all of the Company's non-management employees are represented by national railroad labor organizations. The Company's inability to satisfactorily conclude negotiations with unions could materially adversely affect the Company's operations and financial performance. Similarly, any protracted work stoppages against the Company's connecting railroads could materially adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations. Historically, Congress has intervened in such events to avoid disruptions in interstate commerce, but there can be no assurance that it would do so in the future. All railroad industry employees are covered by the Railroad Retirement Act and the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act in lieu of Social Security and other federal and state unemployment insurance programs, and the Federal Employers Liability Act in lieu of state workers' compensation. Significant increases in the taxes payable pursuant to the Railroad Retirement Act would increase the Company's costs of operations. Relationships with Other Railroads The railroad industry in the United States is dominated by a small number of large Class I carriers that have substantial market control and negotiating leverage. A majority of the Company's carloadings is interchanged with a Class I carrier, CSX Transportation. A decision by CSX Transportation to discontinue serving routes or transporting certain commodities could materially adversely affect the Company's business. The Company's ability to provide rail service to its customers depends in large part upon its ability to maintain cooperative relationships with all its connecting carriers with respect to, among I-6 other matters, freight rates, car supply, interchange and trackage rights. A deterioration in the operating relationships with or service provided by those connecting carriers could materially adversely affect the Company's business. Rail Infrastructure and Availability of Government Programs Certain of the Company's growth opportunities are contingent upon anticipated improvements to P&W's existing rail infrastructure. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to complete such projects as planned. Unforeseen delays or other problems which prevent completion of such improvements could materially adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations. In addition, the Company has worked with federal and state agencies to improve its rail infrastructure and has been effective in obtaining federal and state financial support for such projects. However, there can be no assurance that such federal and state programs or funds will be available in the future or that the Company will be eligible to participate in such programs. Failure to participate in federal and state programs or to receive federal or state funding for rail infrastructure improvements would cause the Company to incur the full cost of rail infrastructure improvements and significantly increase its costs of rail maintenance. Potential for Increased Governmental Regulation and Mandated Upgrade to Property The Company is subject to governmental regulation by the STB, the FRA and other federal, state and local regulatory authorities with respect to certain rates and railroad operations, as well as a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental and other matters, all of which could potentially affect the competitive position and profitability of the Company. Management of the Company believes that the regulatory freedoms granted by the Staggers Rail Act have been beneficial to the Company by giving it flexibility to adjust prices and operations to respond to market forces and industry changes. However, various interests and certain members of the United States House of Representatives and Senate (which have jurisdiction over the federal regulation of railroads) have from time to time expressed their intention to support legislation that would eliminate or reduce significant freedoms granted by the Staggers Rail Act. If enacted, these proposals, or court or administrative rulings to the same effect under current law, could materially adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations. Casualty Losses The Company has obtained insurance coverage for losses arising from personal injury and for property damage in the event of derailments or other accidents or occurrences. The Company believes that its insurance coverage is adequate based on its experience. However, under catastrophic circumstances such as accidents involving passenger trains or spillage of hazardous materials, the Company's liability could exceed its insurance limits. The Company transports hazardous chemicals throughout its system and conducts operations on the Northeast Corridor on which there is heavy passenger traffic. Insurance is available from only a limited number of insurers, and there can be no assurance that insurance protection at the Company's current levels will continue to be available or, if available, will be obtainable on terms acceptable to the Company. Losses or other liabilities incurred by the Company which are not covered by insurance or which exceed the Company's insurance limits could materially adversely affect the Company's financial condition, liquidity and results of operation. Environmental Matters The Company's railroad operations and real estate ownership are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to waters and the handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and other materials. The Company transports hazardous materials and periodically uses hazardous material in its operations. While the Company believes it is in substantial compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, any allegations or findings to the effect that the Company had violated such laws or regulations could materially adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations. The Company operates on properties that have been used for rail operations for over a century. There can be no assurance that historic releases of hazardous waste or materials will not be discovered, requiring remediation of Company properties, and that the cost of such remediation would not be material. I-7 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments - ---------------------------------- None 