ITEM 1A. Risk Factors I-7 ITEM 2. Properties I-10 ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings I-12 ITEM 4. (Removed and Reserved) I-13 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities II-1 ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations II-2 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk II-8 ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data II-9 ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure II-27 ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures II-27 ITEM 9B. Other Information II-28 PART III ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance III-1 ITEM 11. Executive Compensation III-1 ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters III-1 ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence III-2 ITEM 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services III-2 PART IV ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules IV-1 Signatures IV-2 Forward Looking Statements The statements contained in Item 1 “Business”, Item 1A “Risk Factors” and Item 7 “Management’s Discussions and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” which are not historical are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which represent the Company’s beliefs or expectations concerning future events. The Company cautions that these statements are further qualified by important factors that could cause results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, the matters listed In Item 1A “Risk Factors”. Explanatory Note On March 22, 2011, Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of Providence and Worcester Railroad Company (“P&W” or the “Company”) determined that (i) the Company’s previously-issued financial statements for fiscal years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009 included in its annual reports on Form 10-K for those fiscal years, and (ii) the condensed financial statements for the periods within fiscal years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, included in its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for those interim periods, contained errors. As a result, financial statements for the periods identified and any accompanying reports of the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm should no longer be relied upon. The Company is restating its previously-issued balance sheet as of December 31, 2009, and the related statements of operations, cash flows and shareholders’ equity for each of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. Previously-filed annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q affected by the restatements have not been amended and should not be relied upon. In 2004, Congress adopted Section 45G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 for tax years beginning after December 31, 2004. Section 45G permits qualified railroads, of which the Company is one, the benefit of a railroad track maintenance credit equal to 50% of the qualified railroad track maintenance expenditures paid or incurred. Under the provisions of Section 45G, the Company is allowed to take a credit equal to $3,500 multiplied by (a) the number of railroad track miles owned or leased by the Company as of the close of the taxable year, and (b) the number of miles assigned for this purpose to the Company by another eligible Class 2 or Class 3 railroad which owns or leases such railroad track as of the close of the taxable year. Section 45G(e)(iii) requires that if the credits are allowed under the Section, the basis of the track must be reduced by the amount of the credit so allowed. For the year ended 2005, the Company and third-party professionals determined, based on the statutory language, that no basis reduction was required since the Company had not used the credit to reduce its income tax obligation. In 2007, the Internal Revenue Service adopted regulations requiring companies to reduce the cost basis of qualified track or other related track structures for Federal income tax purposes for the taxable year in which the qualified railroad track maintenance expense is incurred (as opposed to actually utilized). During the years ended 2005 through 2008, the Company determined and elected the credit on its Federal income tax return. The Company did not record, in its financial statements, the deferred tax liability resulting from the basis adjustments for each of the years 2005 through 2008, inclusive. In addition, during the years ended 2005 through 2009 the Company misapplied the guidance provided by Accounting Standards Codification 740, “Income Taxes” (“ASC 740”) regarding the calculation and requirements for valuation allowances against deferred tax assets. Under the guidance provided by ASC 740, the Company has determined that full valuation allowances should not have been recorded in its financial statements for the credits related to the years ended 2005 through 2008, which also resulted in additional valuation allowances not being recorded in 2009. See Note 2 to the Company’s financial statements at II-18 hereof. The Company has also determined that a material weakness exists as it pertains to the financial reporting of the income tax provision. For additional information , see Part II, Item 9A Control Procedures on page II-27. I - 1 PART I Item 1. Business The Company is a regional freight railroad as defined by the Association of American Railroads (“AAR”) operating in Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut and New York. The Company is the only interstate freight carrier serving the State of Rhode Island and possesses the exclusive and perpetual right to conduct freight operations over Amtrak’s Northeast Corridor between New Haven, Connecticut and the Massachusetts/Rhode Island border. Since commencing independent operations in 1973, the Company, through a series of acquisitions of connecting lines and trackage rights agreements, has grown from 45 miles of track to its current system of approximately 516 miles. P&W services the largest international double-stack intermodal terminal facility in New England in Worcester, Massachusetts, a strategic location for regional transportation and distribution enterprises. The Company transports a wide variety of commodities for its customers, including automobiles, construction aggregates, iron and steel products, chemicals and plastics (including ethanol), lumber, scrap metals, plastic resins, cement, coal, construction and demolition debris, and processed foods and edible foodstuffs, such as corn syrup and vegetable oils. Its customers include Exxon Mobil Corporation, Ford Motor Company, Frito-Lay, Inc., Global Industries, Inc., GDF SUEZ Energy North America, International Paper Company, Lehigh Cement, Cargill, Inc., Northeast Utilities, Nucor Steel, Rawson Materials, Renewable Products Marketing Group, Subaru of New England, The Dow Chemical Company, Tilcon Connecticut, Inc. and Toray Plastics (America), Inc. In 2010, P&W transported 35,690 carloads of freight and 10,729 intermodal containers. The Company also generates income through sales of properties, grants of easements and licenses and leases of land and tracks and the provision of various mechanical services to other railroads. P&W’s connections to multiple Class I railroads (operating revenues in excess of $378.8 million under the definition of the Surface Transportation Board (“STB”)), either directly or through connections with regional and short-line carriers, provide the Company with a competitive advantage by allowing it to offer various pricing and routing alternatives to its customers. In addition, the Company’s commitment to maintaining its track and equipment to high standards enables P&W to provide fast, reliable and efficient service. Industry Overview General Freight railroads are divided into different classes by the STB and the AAR. As a result of mergers and consolidations, there are only seven Class I railroads in North America today. Class I railroads account for a majority of North America’s rail freight business. The freight rail industry underwent revitalization after the passage of the Staggers Rail Act in 1980 (the “Staggers Rail Act”) which deregulated the pricing and types of services provided by railroads. As a result, railroads were able to achieve significant productivity gains and operating cost decreases while gaining pricing flexibility. Freight rail service became more competitive with other transportation modes with respect to both quality and price. Since 1980, the volume of freight moved by rail rose dramatically and profitability improved significantly, with the exception of the recent period of economic downturn. One result of revitalization of the industry has been the growth of regional (over 350 miles) and short-line railroads which was fueled by Class I railroads’ divestiture of certain branch lines in order to focus on their long-haul core systems. There are now more than 550 of these regional and short-line railroads in the United States. They operate in all of the 48 contiguous states comprising the continental United States, plus Alaska, account for 32% of all rail track, employ about 11% of all rail workers and generate about 7% of all rail revenues. Generally, freight railroads handle two types of traffic: conventional carloads and intermodal containers used in the shipment of goods via more than one mode of transportation, e.g., by ship, rail and truck. By using a hub-and-spoke approach to shipping, multiple containers can be moved by rail to and from an intermodal terminal and then either delivered to their final destinations by truck or transferred to ship for export. During the period 1996-1997, commodity shippers increasingly turned to intermodal transportation principally as an alternative to long-haul trucking. The development of new intermodal technology, which allows containers to be moved by rail double- stacked (i.e., stacked one on top of the other) on specially designed railcars, together with increasing highway traffic congestion, contributed to this trend. Beginning with the second quarter of 2007 and continuing well into 2010, the number of containers arriving in southern New England by way of landbridge (across the continental United States) declined, as containers began being routed from Far East ports directly to East Coast ports over all-water routes. A number of factors including, but not limited to, an improvement in economic conditions are believed to have contributed to an increase of 264 containers being handled by the Company during 2010 compared with 2009. I - 2 Regional Developments Over the past decade, a number of development projects within the Company’s service area have been completed. Some have increased port capacity along the extensive coastline of southern New England and improved the intermodal transportation and distribution infrastructure in the region, while others have improved the Company’s connections to Class I carriers servicing southern New England. This infrastructure presents the Company with multiple opportunities for increased business and routing options, enhancing its customers’ market access. Quonset/Davisville The State of Rhode Island and the federal government are continuing redevelopment efforts on a 1,000 acre portion of the former naval facility at Quonset/Davisville for an active port and industrial park that houses a number of rail-oriented industries and an auto port. Construction of a freight rail improvement project, providing additional track capacity and Phase 1 double-stack clearances on the Northeast Corridor between Quonset/Davisville and Boston Switch, the connection of the Northeast Corridor to the Company’s mainline at Central Falls, RI, was completed in October 2006. Shipment of automobiles by rail commenced in the fall of 2007. The Company handled 1,022 autoracks in 2009 and 3,220 autoracks in 2010. Port of Providence Infrastructure improvements undertaken by the Port of Providence and the Company in 2003, including the installation of paving, lighting and “on dock” rail, have accommodated substantial growth in the Company’s movement of imported coal to inland markets. Coal was a significant source of revenue for the Company during 2008 and, after a significant decline in 2009, regained its importance as a source of revenues during 2010 with 3,155 carloads moved during the period. The Company continues to move coal. In October 2006, the Company initiated rehabilitation of a substantial portion of its South Providence yard to facilitate handling unit trains of ethanol. This commodity is being transported by rail throughout the country and is a component of the gasoline mix available at gasoline service stations throughout southern New England. Rehabilitation was completed and shipments of ethanol commenced during the third quarter of 2007. During 2010, the Company moved 4,168 carloads of ethanol. Middletown/Hartford Line The Company operates between Middletown and Rocky Hill. New London and Willimantic Interchanges Through its New London interchange with the New England Central Railroad (“NECR”), P&W interchanges traffic with the Canadian National Railway (“CN”) and the Canadian Pacific Railway (“CP”). With the Company’s reactivation of the Willimantic Interchange in late 2007, across a route with improved overhead clearances to NECR, the Willimantic Branch became the primary interchange route to NECR and further strengthened the Company’s connections with CP via the Vermont Rail Systems’ Green Mountain Gateway at Bellows Falls, Vermont and CN via St. Albans, Vermont. The Company intends to complete a rehabilitation of the Willimantic Branch in 2011 and has secured bank financing to purchase new 115 lb. rail and complete its installation. Railroad Operations The Company’s rail freight system comprises approximately 516 miles of track. The Company interchanges freight traffic: with CSX Transportation (“CSXT”) at Worcester, Massachusetts and at New Haven, Connecticut; with Pan Am Railways at Worcester, Massachusetts; with Pan Am Southern (“PAS”) and Norfolk Southern Corporation (“NS”) via PAS at Gardner, Massachusetts; with NECR at New London and Willimantic, Connecticut; with CN and CP via the NECR; and with New York and Atlantic Railroad at Fresh Pond Junction on Long Island. Through its connections, P&W links more than 80 communities on its lines. The Company operates four classification yards (areas containing tracks used to group freight cars destined for a particular industry or interchange) located in Worcester, Massachusetts, Cumberland, Rhode Island and Plainfield and New Haven, Connecticut. I - 3 The Company is dependent upon the railroads with which it interchanges freight traffic to enable it to properly service its customers at competitive rates. Failure of any of these connecting railroads to provide adequate service at reasonable rates can result in a loss of freight customers and revenues. By agreement with a private operator, the Company services an approved customs intermodal yard in Worcester. A customs intermodal yard is an area containing tracks used for the loading and unloading of containers. This yard is U.S. Customs bonded, and international traffic must be inspected and approved by U.S. Customs officials. The intermodal yard serves primarily as a terminal for movement of container traffic from the Far East, Southeast Asia and Europe destined for points in New England. Container ship lines utilize double-stack train service through this terminal, which declined significantly beginning in 2007 and reached its lowest traffic counts in 2009. In 2010, 10,729 containers were handled, representing an improvement of 264 containers over 2009. P&W is working closely with the terminal operator to develop relationships with steamship lines involved in international intermodal transportation. The Company and CN have entered into an Intermodal Haulage Agreement with respect to international intermodal containers to and from Canadian ports. Seasonality Historically, the Company’s operating revenues are lowest for the first quarter due to the lesser volume of construction aggregates shipments during this period and winter weather conditions. Customers The Company serves approximately 160 customers in Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut and New York. The Company’s ten (10) largest customers account for more than half of its operating revenues. Though no single customer accounted for 10% or more of its total operating revenues in 2010, agreements by individual shippers with Motiva Enterprises LLC, which operates a petroleum blending terminal located in Providence, Rhode Island, accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s operating revenues. Markets The Company transports a wide variety of commodities for its customers. In recent years, chemicals and plastics (including ethanol) and construction aggregates were the two largest commodity groups transported by the Company, constituting 44% and 14%, respectively, of conventional carload freight revenues in 2010. The following table summarizes the Company’s conventional carload freight revenues by commodity group as a percentage of such revenues: Commodity 2010 2009 Automobiles 8 % 4 % Chemicals and plastics (including ethanol) 44 40 Construction aggregates 14 16 Coal 6 5 Metal products 11 8 Food and agricultural products 6 10 Forest and paper products 7 8 Other 4 9 Total 100 % 100 % Sales and Marketing P&W’s sales and marketing staff of three people has substantial experience in pricing and marketing railroad services. The sales and marketing staff focuses on understanding and addressing the material requirements and transportation needs of its existing customers and businesses on its lines. The staff grows existing business by maintaining close working relationships with both customers and connecting carriers. The sales and marketing staff strives to generate new business for the Company through (i) targeting companies already on P&W’s rail lines but not currently using rail services or not using them to their full capacity, (ii) working with state and local development officials, developers and real estate brokers to encourage the development of industry on the Company’s rail lines, and (iii) identifying and targeting the non-rail transportation of goods into and out of the region in which the Company operates. Unlike many other regional and short-line railroads which have access to a single Class I connection, the Company is able to offer its customers various pricing and routing alternatives because of its multiple connections to other carriers. I - 4 Safety An important component of the Company’s operating strategy is conducting safe railroad operations for the benefit and protection of employees, customers and the communities served by its rail lines. Since commencing active operations in 1973, the Company has committed significant resources to track maintenance and believes its rail system is in good condition. The Company intends to complete a rehabilitation of the Willimantic Branch in 2011 and has secured bank financing to purchase new 115 lb. rail and complete its installation. The Company has an employee training program utilizing classroom instruction and video programs on topics including NORAC Operating Rules, Safety Rules, Rail Security Awareness plans and Hazardous Materials Awareness, as well as manufacturer-provided training materials. Safety of the Company’s operations is of paramount importance for the benefit and protection of the Company’s employees, customers and the communities served by its rail lines. The Company and its employees have continued to make improvements in preventing injuries while at the same time expanding operations and the work force. In 2010, the Company sustained two serious derailments in Connecticut. The first occurred on March 11 in Windham, Connecticut on the state-owned portion of the Willimantic Branch when four (4) cars of an 80-car unit train of ethanol derailed, and the second occurred on the Company’s Norwich Branch on May 12 when a nine (9) car consist carrying plastics and a single residue car (earlier emptied of its load of hazardous material) derailed. There were no injuries or releases of hazardous material from either derailment. The Federal Railroad Administration (“FRA”) has determined that both derailments resulted from a broken rail rather than substandard maintenance, train handling or other human error. There are no lawsuits relative to either derailment and the Company’s insurance carrier is expected to cover all derailment costs exceeding the Company’s deductible of $100,000 for each incident. Rail Traffic Rail traffic is classified as on-line or overhead traffic. On-line traffic is traffic that originates or terminates with shippers located on a railroad’s rights-of-way. Overhead traffic passes from one connecting carrier to another and neither originates nor terminates with shippers located on a railroad’s rights-of-way. Presently, P&W is solely an on-line carrier but may provide overhead service in the future for certain rail traffic to and from Long Island. Freight rail rates can be in various forms. Generally, customers are given a “through” rate, a single amount encompassing the rail transportation of a commodity from point of origin to point of destination, regardless of the number of carriers which handle the car. Rates are developed by the carriers based on the commodity, volume, distance and competitive market considerations. The entire freight bill is paid either to the originating carrier (“prepaid”) or to the destination carrier (“collect”) and divided among all carriers which handle the move. The basis for the division varies and can be based on factors (or revenue requirements) independently established by each carrier which comprise the through rate, or on a percentage basis established by division agreements among the carriers. A carrier such as P&W, which actually places the car at the customer’s location and attends to the customer’s daily switching requirements, typically receives a share of revenue greater than an amount based simply on mileage hauled. Employees As of December 31, 2010, the Company had 137 full-time employees, 108 of whom are represented by three railroad labor organizations that are national in scope. The Company’s non-management employees have been represented by the same unions since the Company commenced independent operations in 1973. I - 5 The Company’s initial agreement with the United Transportation Union covering the trainmen was unusual in the railroad industry since it provided the Company with discretion in determining crew sizes, eliminated craft distinctions and provided a guaranteed annual wage for a maximum number of hours worked. The Company’s collective bargaining agreements have been in effect since February 1973 for trainmen, since May 1974 for clerical employees and dispatchers and since June 1974 for maintenance employees. These contracts do not expire but are subject to renegotiation after the agreed-upon moratoria. The Company signed eight year agreements with the United Transportation Union (trainmen) in October 2005, the Transportation Communications International Union (clerical) in August 2006 and the Brotherhood of Railroad Signalmen (maintenance) in July 2007. The Company considers its employee and labor relations to be good. Competition The Company is the only rail carrier serving businesses located on-line. The Company competes with other carriers, however, in the siting of new rail-oriented businesses in the region. Certain rail competitors, including CSXT and NS, are substantially larger and better capitalized than the Company. The Company also competes with other modes of transportation, particularly long-haul trucking companies for the transportation of commodities, and ocean-going vessels for the transportation of containers. Any improvement in the cost or quality of these alternate modes of transportation including, for example, legislation authorizing material increases in truck size or allowable weight, could increase competition and may materially adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. As a means of competing, P&W strives to offer greater convenience and better service than competing rail carriers and at costs lower than some competing non-rail carriers. The Company also competes by participating in efforts to attract new industry to the areas which it serves. The Company believes that its ability to grow depends, in part, upon its ability to acquire additional connecting rail lines. In making acquisitions, P&W competes with other short-line and regional rail operators, some of which are larger and have greater financial resources than the Company. Governmental Regulation The Company is subject to governmental regulation by the STB, the FRA, the Transportation Security Administration (the “TSA”) and other federal, state and local regulatory authorities with respect to certain rates and railroad operations, as well as a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental and other matters, all of which could potentially affect the competitive position and profitability of the Company. Additionally, the Company is subject to STB regulation and may be required to obtain STB approval prior to its acquisition of any new railroad properties. Management of the Company believes that the regulatory freedoms granted by the Staggers Rail Act have been beneficial to the Company by giving it flexibility to adjust prices and operations to respond to market forces and industry changes. However, various interests, and certain members of the United States Congress (which has jurisdiction over federal regulation of railroads), have from time to time expressed their intention to support legislation that would eliminate or reduce significant freedoms granted by the Staggers Rail Act. Environmental Matters The Company’s railroad operations and real estate ownership are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to waters and the handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and other materials. The Company handles, stores, transports and disposes of petroleum and other hazardous substances and wastes. The Company also transports hazardous substances for third parties and arranges for the disposal of hazardous wastes generated by the Company. The Company believes that it is in compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Internet Address and SEC Reports The Company maintains a website with the address www.pwrr.com. We are not including the information contained on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). We also include on our website our corporate governance guidelines and the charters for each of the major committees of our board of directors. In addition, we intend to disclose on our website any amendments to, or waivers from, our code of business conduct and ethics that are required to be publicly disclosed pursuant to rules of the SEC. I - 6 Item 1A. Risk Factors Fluctuations in Operating Revenues Historically, the Company’s operating revenues have been tied to national and regional economic conditions, especially those impacting the manufacturing sector, while the Company’s expenses have been relatively inelastic. Increasingly, the Company’s business is impacted by global economic events. Economic activity worldwide underwent a sharp decline that began during the third quarter of 2007 and continued well into 2010. This decline is believed to have affected substantially all segments of the economy including the Company, its customers and its vendors. The worldwide economy showed some signs of a slight recovery late in 2010 and the Company experienced a significant increase in carloads and a modest upturn in container volume. The Company’s growth in carloads came mainly from business that was either enhanced or began in 2010 (ethanol and automobiles). The container volume was influenced by a number of factors including, but not limited to, the economic recovery referenced herein. The extent and duration of this recovery and its impact upon our customers or our business in general cannot be predicted. Another economic decline or a worsening of economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. In addition, shifts in the New England economy between manufacturing and service sectors could materially affect the Company’s performance. The Company’s operating revenues and expenses may also fluctuate due to unpredictable events, such as extreme weather conditions and customer plant closings. While generally the Company has been able to replace revenues lost due to plant closings through expansion of existing business or replacement with new customers, there can be no assurance that it can do so in the future. The occurrence of such unpredictable events in the future could cause further fluctuations in operating revenues and expenses and materially adversely affect the Company’s financial performance. Ability to Extend or Refinance the Company’s Line of Credit and to Comply with the Financial Covenants of the Company’s Banking Facilities The Company has a revolving line of credit facility (“Line of Credit”) in the amount of $5 million from a commercial bank that expires in June 2011. Borrowings under this Line of Credit are unsecured, due on demand and bear interest at either the bank’s prime rate or one and three-quarters percent over the thirty, sixty or ninety day London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) with a LIBOR floor of one and one-quarter percent (1.25%). The Company’s effective interest rate was 3.25% for 2010. The Company pays no commitment fee on this Line of Credit and has no compensating balance requirement. The Company is subject to financial and non-financial covenants, including maintenance of minimum net worth and restrictions against incurring additional indebtedness, as well as the sale or encumbrance of Company assets. The Company expects to renegotiate the Line of Credit with its present lender or obtain substitute financing prior to maturity. In December 2010, the Company entered into a loan agreement (“Construction Loan”) with the same commercial bank in order to borrow funds for rehabilitation of the Willimantic Branch. The Construction Loan of up to $4 million requires payments of interest only for the first six months accruing at the bank’s prime rate. After the initial six month period, the Construction Loan will convert to a 10 year term with a 20 year amortization period accruing interest at the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston 5/20 rate plus 3%. This rate will be reset 5 years after the date of the note, in July 2016. The Company has the right to prepay the Construction Loan or any part thereof out of internally-generated funds without penalty. The Company is subject to financial and non-financial covenants, including maintenance of minimum net worth and minimum debt service coverage. The Company’s inability to comply with loan covenants under either banking facility could result in the occurrence of an event of default which, if neither cured nor waived, could permit acceleration of outstanding indebtedness. In addition, there are no assurances that the Company will be able to extend the maturity of its Line of Credit with its current lender or to replace such facility with another lender. I - 7 Availability of Acquisition and Growth Opportunities and Associated Risks The Company believes that its ability to grow depends, in part, upon its ability to acquire additional connecting rail lines. There are a limited number of acquisition targets in the Company’s market. In addition, in making acquisitions, the Company competes with other short-line and regional rail operators, some of which are larger and have greater financial resources than the Company. The growing competition for such acquisitions may cause an increase in acquisition prices and related costs, resulting in fewer attractive acquisition opportunities, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s growth. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to acquire suitable additional rail lines or that, if acquired, the Company would be able to successfully operate such additional rail lines. Acquisitions of additional rail lines may be subject to regulatory review and approval by the STB. The Company is a regional railroad; acquisitions by certain railroads are subject to a requirement that employees affected by an acquisition be paid up to one year’s severance. Competition For customers located directly on-line, which constitute the majority of the Company’s freight business, the Company is the only rail carrier providing direct service. However, the Company competes with other freight railroads on the siting of new businesses in the region. The Company also competes with other modes of transportation such as long-haul trucking companies and ocean-going vessels, including short-sea shipping. Any improvement in the cost, quality or availability of these alternate modes of transportation, for example, legislation granting increases in truck size or allowable weight, could increase this competition and materially affect the Company’s business and results of operations. In addition, revenues derived from the handling of intermodal containers could continue to be materially adversely affected by the rerouting of containers from Far East ports directly to East Coast ports via an all-water route rather than by way of landbridge. Customer Concentration and Customer Credit Risk The Company’s ten (10) largest customers accounted for more than half of the Company’s operating revenues for 2010. Though no single customer accounted for 10% or more of its total operating revenues in 2010, agreements by individual shippers with Motiva Enterprises LLC, which operates a petroleum blending terminal located in Providence, Rhode Island, accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s operating revenues. The Company’s business could be materially adversely affected if any customers reduce shipments of commodities transported by the Company. In addition, our business is subject to our customers’ credit risks. Default by a significant customer or multiple customers could adversely affect the Company’s operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Although in the past the Company has been able to replace revenues lost due to a reduction in existing customers’ rail service requirements, no assurance can be given that it could do so in the future. Labor Issues Substantially all of the Company’s non-management employees are represented by national railroad labor organizations. The Company’s inability to satisfactorily conclude negotiations with unions could materially adversely affect the Company’s operations and financial performance. Similarly, any protracted work stoppages against the Company’s connecting railroads could materially adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. Historically, Congress has intervened in such events to avoid disruptions in interstate commerce, but there can be no assurance that it would do so in the future. All railroad industry employees are covered by the Railroad Retirement Act and the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act in lieu of Social Security and other federal and state unemployment insurance programs, and the Federal Employers Liability Act in lieu of state workers’ compensation. Increases in the taxes payable pursuant to the Railroad Retirement Act and/or the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act would increase the Company’s costs of operations. I - 8 Relationships with Other Railroads The railroad industry in North America is dominated by a small number of Class I carriers that have substantial market control and negotiating leverage. A majority of the Company’s carloadings were interchanged with a Class I carrier, CSXT, during 2010. The Company also interchanges traffic with three other Class I carriers through its various routes and interchanges. A decision by CSXT or any other Class I carrier to discontinue serving routes or to disadvantageously price the transport of certain commodities could materially adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s ability to provide rail service to its customers depends in large part upon its ability to maintain cooperative relationships with all its connecting carriers with respect to, among other matters, freight rates, car supply, interchange and trackage rights. Deterioration in the operating relationships with or services provided by those connecting carriers could materially adversely affect the Company’s business. Rail Infrastructure and Availability of Government Programs Certain of the Company’s growth opportunities are contingent upon anticipated improvements to P&W’s existing rail infrastructure. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to complete such projects as planned. Unforeseen delays or other problems which prevent completion of such improvements could materially adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. In addition, the Company has worked with federal and state agencies to improve its rail infrastructure and has been effective in obtaining federal and state financial support for certain projects. There can be no assurance, however, that such federal and state programs or funds will be available in the future or that the Company will be eligible to participate in such programs. Failure to participate in federal and state programs or to receive federal or state funding for rail infrastructure improvements would cause the Company to incur the full cost of those infrastructure improvements undertaken and completed and significantly increase its costs of rail infrastructure improvement. Potential for Increased Governmental Regulation and Mandated Upgrade to Property The Company is subject to governmental regulation by the STB, FRA, TSA and other federal, state and local regulatory authorities with respect to certain rates and railroad operations, as well as a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental, security and other matters, all of which could potentially affect the competitive position and profitability of the Company. Management of the Company believes that the regulatory freedoms granted by the Staggers Rail Act have been beneficial to the Company by giving it flexibility to adjust prices and operations to respond to market forces and industry changes. However, various interests and certain members of Congress (which has jurisdiction over the federal regulation of railroads) have from time to time expressed their intention to support legislation that would eliminate or reduce significant freedoms granted by the Staggers Rail Act. If enacted, these proposals, or court or administrative rulings to the same effect under current law, could materially adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. Casualty Losses The Company has obtained insurance coverage for losses arising from personal injury and for property damage in the event of derailments or other accidents or occurrences. The Company believes that its insurance coverage is adequate based on its experience. However, under catastrophic circumstances such as accidents involving passenger trains or release of hazardous materials, the Company’s liability could exceed its insurance limits. The Company transports hazardous chemicals throughout its system on account of its status as a common carrier and conducts operations on the Northeast Corridor on which there is heavy passenger traffic. Insurance is available from only a limited number of insurers, and there can be no assurance that insurance protection at the Company’s current levels will continue to be available or, if available, will be obtainable on terms acceptable to the Company. Losses or other liabilities incurred by the Company which are not covered by insurance or which exceed the Company’s insurance limits could materially adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operation. I - 9 Environmental Matters The Company’s railroad operations and real estate ownership are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to waters and the handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and other materials. The Company transports hazardous materials and periodically uses hazardous material in its operations. While the Company believes it is in substantial compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, any allegations or findings to the effect that the Company had violated such laws or regulations could materially adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company operates on properties that have been used for rail operations for over a century. There can be no assurance that historic releases of hazardous waste or materials will not be discovered, requiring remediation of Company properties, and that the cost of such remediation would not be material. Track Maintenance Credits In each of 2010 and 2009, the Company received approximately $975 thousand from its assignment of tax credits for track maintenance expenditures under Section 45G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. Section 45G expires on December 31, 2011 and, unless legislation to extend or renew Section 45G or other similar legislation is enacted, the Company would not be eligible to earn or assign credits during 2012 or any subsequent period. Climate Change The Company is subject to various laws, regulations and other controls (“Climate Controls”) with respect to clean air, greenhouse gasses, diesel emissions and the like. Additional Climate Controls could increase the Company’s operating costs, which in turn could materially adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. In addition, Climate Controls could also affect our customers which consume or burn fossil fuels, including coal-fired power plants, chemical producers, farmers and manufacturers, including automakers. Fuel Costs Fuel costs were approximately 10.0% and 8.2% of our operating revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Fuel prices and supplies are influenced significantly by political and economic circumstances. Fuel shortages or unusual price volatility could increase our fuel costs and adversely affect our results of operations. Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The Company, through documentation, testing and assessment of our internal control over financial reporting concluded that the Company had a material weakness as of December 31, 2010. The material weakness related to the improper treatment of certain Federal income tax credit and the related valuation allowance calculation. Although the Company is in the process of remediating the deficiencies that gave rise to this material weakness, the deficiencies have not been remediated as of the date of this filing. The material weakness, if not remedied effectively, could cause the Company to not be able to provide reasonable assurance around the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting. The material weakness will not be fully remediated until, in the opinion of the Company’s management, the revised control procedures have been operating for a sufficient period of time to provide reasonable assurance as to their effectiveness. 