Item 1A. Risk Factors. For an enterprise as diverse and complex as the Company, a wide range of factors present risks to the Company and could materially affect future developments and performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of our operations and the financial results of our operations elsewhere in this report, the most significant of these factors are as follows: Changes in U.S. or International Economic Conditions Could Adversely Affect the Revenues and Profitability of Any of Our Businesses. In 2012, 49% of the Company’s revenue was derived from domestic operations while 51% was derived from international operations. The Company’s largest end markets include life sciences and medical technologies, fire and rescue, petroleum LPG, paint and coatings, chemical processing, water and wastewater treatment and optical filters and components. A slowdown in the U.S. or global economy and in particular any of these specific end markets could reduce the Company’s revenues and profitability. Conditions in Foreign Countries in Which We Operate Could Adversely Affect Our Business. In 2012, approximately 51% of our total sales were to customers outside the U.S. We expect our international operations and export sales to continue to be significant for the foreseeable future. Our sales from international operations and our sales from export are both subject in varying degrees to risks inherent in doing business outside the United States. These risks include the following: • possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations; • risks of economic instability; • currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency repatriation; • potential negative consequences from changes to taxation policies; • disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances; • changes in tariff and trade barriers and import or export licensing requirements; and, • insurrection or war. Any of these events could have an adverse impact on our business and operations. Our Inability to Continue to Develop New Products Could Limit Our Revenue Growth. The Company’s revenue grew 3% organically in 2012 and 9% in 2011. Approximately 14% of our revenue was derived from new products developed over the past three years. Our ability to continue to grow organically is tied in large part to our ability to continue to develop new products. Our Growth Strategy Includes Acquisitions and We May Not be Able to Make Acquisitions of Suitable Candidates or Integrate Acquisitions Successfully. Our historical growth has included, and our future growth is likely to continue to include acquisitions. We intend to continue to seek acquisition opportunities both to expand into new markets and to enhance our position in existing markets throughout the world. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing needed to consummate those acquisitions, complete proposed acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. In addition, any acquisition, once successfully integrated, may not perform as planned, be accretive to earnings, or prove beneficial to us. 8 Table of Contents Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the assumption of undisclosed or unindemnified liabilities, difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. The Markets We Serve are Highly Competitive and this Competition Could Reduce our Sales and Operating Margins. Most of our products are sold in competitive markets. Maintaining and improving our competitive position will require continued investment by us in manufacturing, engineering, quality standards, marketing, customer service and support, and our distribution networks. We may not be successful in maintaining our competitive position. Our competitors may develop products that are superior to our products, or may develop methods of more efficiently and effectively providing products and services or may adapt more quickly than us to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. Pricing pressures may require us to adjust the prices of our products to stay competitive. We may not be able to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors. Failure to continue competing successfully could reduce our revenues, operating margins and overall financial performance. We are Dependent on the Availability of Raw Materials, Parts and Components Used in Our Products. While we manufacture certain parts and components used in our products, we require substantial amounts of raw materials and purchase some parts and components from suppliers. The availability and prices for raw materials, parts and components may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, changes in exchange rates and prevailing price levels. Any change in the supply of, or price for, these raw materials or parts and components could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Significant Movements in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates May Harm Our Financial Results. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the Euro, Canadian Dollar, British Pound and Chinese Renminbi. Any significant change in the value of the currencies of the countries in which we do business against the U.S. Dollar could affect our ability to sell products competitively and control our cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For additional detail related to this risk, see Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.” An Unfavorable Outcome of Any of Our Pending Contingencies or Litigation Could Adversely Affect Us. We currently are involved in legal and regulatory proceedings. Where it is reasonably possible to do so, we accrue estimates of the probable costs for the resolution of these matters. These estimates are developed in consultation with outside counsel and are based upon an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. It is possible, however, that future operating results for any particular quarter or annual period could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions or the effectiveness of our strategies related to these proceedings. For additional detail related to this risk, see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” Our Intangible Assets, Including Goodwill, are a Significant Portion of Our Total Assets and a Write-off of Our Intangible Assets Would Adversely Impact Our Operating Results and Significantly Reduce Our Net Worth. Our total assets reflect substantial intangible assets, primarily goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. At December 31, 2012, goodwill and intangible assets totaled $1,321.7 million and $341.4 million, respectively. These assets result from our acquisitions, representing the excess of cost over the fair value of the tangible net 9 Table of Contents assets we have acquired. Annually, or when certain events occur that require a more current valuation, we assess whether there has been an impairment in the value of our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. If future operating performance at one or more of our reporting units were to fall significantly below forecast levels, we could be required to reflect, under current applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating income for an impairment. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of our goodwill or identifiable intangible assets would adversely impact our results of operations and net worth. In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) No. 350, the Company concluded that a significant non-cash impairment charge of $198.5 million was required in the fourth quarter of 2012 to reduce the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets within the IOP platform and goodwill and long-lived assets within the WST platform. See Note 4 in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further discussion on goodwill and intangible assets. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 