Item 1A. Risk Factors. For an enterprise as diverse and complex as the Company, a wide range of factors could materially affect future developments and performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations and the financial results of these operations elsewhere in this report, the most significant factors affecting our operations include the following: THE RECENT FINANCIAL CRISIS AND CURRENT UNCERTAINTY IN GLOBAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, FINANCIAL CONDITION OR CASH FLOWS. The recent financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the current uncertainty in global economic conditions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from these economic developments on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer insolvencies; decreased customer confidence; and decreased customer demand, including order delays or cancellations. CHANGES IN U.S. OR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE PROFITABILITY OF ANY OF OUR BUSINESSES. In 2008, 53% of the Company’s revenue was derived from domestic operations while 47% was international. The Company’s largest markets include life sciences & medical technologies, fire and rescue, petroleum LPG, paint and coatings, chemical processing and water & wastewater treatment. A slowdown in the economy and in particular any of these specific end markets could directly affect the Company’s revenue stream and profitability. POLITICAL CONDITIONS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. In 2008, approximately 47% of our total sales were to customers outside the U.S. We expect international operations and export sales to continue to contribute to earnings for the foreseeable future. Both the sales from international operations and export sales are subject in varying degrees to risks inherent in doing business outside the United States. Such risks include the following: • possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations; • risks of economic instability; • currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency repatriation; • potential negative consequences from changes to taxation policies; • the disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances; • changes in tariff and trade barriers and import or export licensing requirements; and, • insurrection or war. We cannot predict the impact such future, largely unforeseeable events might have on the Company’s operations. 7 Table of Contents AN INABILITY TO CONTINUE TO DEVELOP NEW PRODUCTS CAN LIMIT THE COMPANY’S REVENUE AND PROFITABILITY. The Company’s organic growth was flat in 2008 and 6% in 2007. Approximately 14% of our revenue was derived from new products developed over the past three years. Our ability to continue to grow organically is tied to our ability to continue to develop new products. OUR GROWTH STRATEGY INCLUDES ACQUISITIONS AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MAKE ACQUISITIONS OF SUITABLE CANDIDATES OR INTEGRATE ACQUISITIONS SUCCESSFULLY. Our historical growth has included, and our future growth is likely to continue to include, in large part our acquisition strategy and the successful integration of acquired businesses into our existing operations. We intend to continue to seek additional acquisition opportunities both to expand into new markets and to enhance our position in existing markets throughout the world. We cannot be assured, however, that we will be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing which may be needed to consummate such acquisitions, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations or expand into new markets. In addition, we cannot assure you that any acquisition, once successfully integrated, will perform as planned, be accretive to earnings, or prove to be beneficial to our operations and cash flow. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. Once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability or productivity comparable with those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. THE MARKETS WE SERVE ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE. THIS COMPETITION COULD LIMIT THE VOLUME OF PRODUCTS THAT WE SELL AND REDUCE OUR OPERATING MARGINS. Most of our products are sold in competitive markets. We believe that the principal points of competition in our markets are product quality, price, design and engineering capabilities, product development, conformity to customer specifications, quality of post-sale support, timeliness of delivery, and effectiveness of our distribution channels. Maintaining and improving our competitive position will require continued investment by us in manufacturing, engineering, quality standards, marketing, customer service and support, and our distribution networks. We cannot be assured that we will be successful in maintaining our competitive position. Our competitors may develop products that are superior to our products, or may develop methods of more efficiently and effectively providing products and services or may adapt more quickly than us to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. Pricing pressures also could cause us to adjust the prices of certain of our products to stay competitive. We cannot be assured that we will be able to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors. Failure to continue competing successfully could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON THE AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS, PARTS AND COMPONENTS USED IN OUR PRODUCTS. While we manufacture many of the parts and components used in our products, we require substantial amounts of raw materials and purchase some parts and components from suppliers. The availability and prices for raw materials, parts and components may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, changes in exchange rates and prevailing price levels. Any change in the supply of, or price for, these raw materials or parts and components could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 8 Table of Contents SIGNIFICANT MOVEMENTS IN FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES MAY HARM OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the Euro, Canadian Dollar, British Pound and Chinese Renminbi. Any significant change in the value of the currencies of the countries in which we do business against the U.S. Dollar could affect our ability to sell products competitively and control our cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. For additional detail related to this risk, see Part II. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk. AN UNFAVORABLE OUTCOME WITH REGARDS TO ANY OF OUR PENDING CONTINGENCIES OR LITIGATION COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND CASH FLOW. We currently are involved in certain legal and regulatory proceedings. Where it is reasonably possible to do so, we accrue estimates of the probable costs for the resolution of these matters. These estimates are developed in consultation with outside counsel and are based upon an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. It is possible, however, that future operating results for any particular quarter or annual period could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions or the effectiveness of our strategies related to these proceedings. For additional detail related to this risk, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings. WE COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY RAPID CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES. Our profitability may be adversely affected during any period of an unexpected or rapid increase in interest rates. The Company’s interest rate exposure was primarily related to the $554.0 million of total debt outstanding at December 31, 2008. The majority of the debt is priced at interest rates that float with the market. In order to mitigate this interest exposure, the Company entered into interest rate exchange agreements that effectively converted $350.0 million of our floating-rate debt to a fixed rate. A 50 basis point movement in the interest rate on the remaining $204.0 million floating-rate debt would result in an approximate $1.0 million annualized increase or decrease in interest expense and cash flow. For additional detail related to this risk, see Part II. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk. OUR INTANGIBLE ASSETS ARE A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR TOTAL ASSETS AND A WRITE-OFF OF OUR INTANGIBLE ASSETS COULD CAUSE A MAJOR IMPACT ON THE COMPANY’S NET WORTH. Our total assets reflect substantial intangible assets, primarily goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. At December 31, 2008, goodwill and intangible assets totaled $1,167.1 million and $303.2 million, respectively. These intangible assets and goodwill result from our acquisitions, representing the excess of cost over the fair value of the tangible assets we have acquired. Annually, or when certain events occur that require a more current valuation, we assess whether there has been an impairment in the value of our intangible assets or goodwill. If future operating performance at one or more of our reporting units were to fall significantly below forecast levels, we could reflect, under current applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating earnings for an impairment. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of the intangible assets or goodwill could have a material negative effect on our results of operations and total capitalization. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) No. 142, the Company concluded that events had occurred and circumstances had changed in 2008 which required the Company to record a goodwill impairment of $30.1 million at Fluid Management Americas, a reporting unit within the Company’s Dispensing Equipment segment. See Note 4 in Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further discussion on goodwill and intangible assets. 9 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2008 calendar year and that remain unresolved. 