Item 1A. Risk Factors General Business, Economic, Political and Market Conditions HUSI’s business and earnings are affected by general business, economic, market and political conditions in the United States and abroad. Given its concentration of business activities in the United States, HUSI is particularly exposed to downturns in the United States economy. For example, in a poor economic environment there is greater likelihood that more of HUSI’s customers or counterparties could become delinquent or default on their loans or other obligations. This could result in higher levels of charge offs and provisions for credit losses, which would adversely affect HUSI’s earnings. General business, economic and market conditions that could affect HUSI include, but are not limited to: • short-term and long-term interest rates; • inflation; • recession; • monetary supply; • fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets in which HUSI funds its operations; • market value of consumer owned and commercial real estate throughout the United States; • consumer perception as to the availability of credit; and • the ease of filing for bankruptcy. Certain changes to these conditions could diminish demand for HUSI’s products and services, or increase the cost to provide such products or services. Recent trends in world-wide financial markets related to, among other things, the growth of derivatives and hedge funds, could add instability and could change the way those markets work. Political conditions may also impact HUSI’s earnings. The economic health of geographic areas where HUSI has greater concentrations of business may decline relative to other geographic regions, with related impacts on HUSI’s earnings. Acts or threats of war or terrorism, as well as actions taken by the United States or other governments in response to such acts or threats, could affect business and economic conditions in the United States. Competition HUSI operates in a highly competitive environment. Competitive conditions are expected to continue to intensify as continued merger activity in the financial services industry produces larger, better-capitalized and more geographically diverse companies. New products, customers and channels of distribution are constantly emerging. In addition, the traditional segregation of the financial services industry into prime and non-prime segments has eroded and in the future is expected to continue to do so, further increasing competition in the financial services industry. Such competition may impact the terms, rates, costs and/or profits historically included in the loan products HUSI offers or purchases. The traditional segregation of commercial and investment banks has all but eroded. There is no assurance that the significant and increasing competition within the financial services industry will not materially and adversely affect HUSI’s future results of operations. Federal and State Regulation HUSI operates in a highly regulated environment. Changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting banking, consumer credit, bankruptcy, privacy, consumer protection or other matters could materially impact HUSI’s performance. For example, anti-money laundering requirements under the Patriot Act are frequently revisited by the U.S. Congress and Executive Agencies. Broad or targeted legislative or regulatory initiatives may be aimed at lenders operating in consumer lending markets. These initiatives could affect HUSI in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of consumer loan products it can offer. In addition, there may be amendments to, and new interpretations of, risk-based capital guidelines. HUSI cannot determine whether such legislative or regulatory amendments will be instituted or predict the impact that such amendments would have on results. 14 Changes in Accounting Standards HUSI’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how HUSI records and reports its financial condition and the results of its operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC and bank regulators, including the Office of Comptroller of the Currency and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of external financial statements. These changes are beyond HUSI’s control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how HUSI reports its financial condition and the results of its operations. Management Financial Projections and Judgments HUSI’s management is required to use certain estimates in preparing financial statements, including accounting estimates to determine loan loss reserves, reserves related to future litigation, and the fair market value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. In particular, loan loss reserve estimates are judgmental and are influenced by factors outside of HUSI’s control. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Lawsuits and Regulatory Investigations and Proceedings HUSI or one of its subsidiaries may be named as a defendant in various legal actions, including class actions and other litigation or disputes with third parties, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies. These actions may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results, including additional compliance requirements, adverse to HUSI which could have a material adverse effect on HUSI’s business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause serious reputational harm. Operational Risks HUSI’s businesses are dependent upon its ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. If any of HUSI’s financial, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, HUSI could be materially and adversely affected. HUSI is similarly dependent on its employees. HUSI could be materially and adversely affected if an employee causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual intentionally sabotages or fraudulently manipulates HUSI’s operations or systems. Third parties with which HUSI does business could also be sources of operational risk, including risks associated with break-downs or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could result in diminished ability of HUSI to operate one or more of its businesses, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, all of which could have a material adverse effect on HUSI. HUSI may also be subject to disruptions of its operating systems and businesses arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control. These may include: • computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages; • natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes; • events arising from local or regional politics, including terrorist acts; • unforeseen problems encountered while implementing major new computer systems; or • global pandemics, which could have a significant effect on HUSI’s business operations as well as on HSBC affiliates world-wide. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers, an inability to collect receivables in affected areas and other loss or liability to HUSI. 15 In recent years, instances of identity theft and fraudulent attempts to obtain personal and financial information from individuals and from companies that maintain such information pertaining to their customers have become more prevalent. Use of the internet for these purposes has also increased. Such acts can have the following possible impacts: • threaten the assets of customers and of HUSI; • negatively impact customer credit ratings; • impact customers’ ability to repay loan balances; • increase costs for HUSI to respond to such threats and to enhance its processes and systems to ensure maximum security of data; or • damage HUSI’s reputation from public knowledge of intrusion into its systems and databases. There is the risk that HUSI’s controls and procedures, business continuity planning, and data security systems could prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect HUSI’s operations and could have a material adverse effect on HUSI’s results of operations by requiring HUSI to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing HUSI to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. Changes to operational practices from time to time could materially impact HUSI’s performance and results. Such changes may include: • raising the minimum payment on credit card accounts; • determinations to acquire or sell private label credit card receivables, residential mortgage loans and other loans; • changes to customer account management, risk management and collection policies and practices; • increasing investment in technology, business infrastructure and specialized personnel; or • outsourcing of various operations. Liquidity Adequate liquidity is critical to HUSI’s ability to operate its businesses, grow and be profitable. A compromise to liquidity could therefore have a negative effect on HUSI. Potential conditions that could negatively affect HUSI’s liquidity include: • diminished access to capital markets; • unforeseen cash or capital requirements; • an inability to sell assets; and • an inability to obtain expected funding from HSBC affiliates and clients. HUSI’s credit ratings are an important part of maintaining liquidity. Any downgrade in credit ratings could potentially increase borrowing costs, limit access to capital markets, require cash payments or collateral posting, and permit termination of certain contracts material to HUSI. 16 Acquisition Integration HUSI has in the past, and may again in the future, seek to grow its business by acquiring other businesses or loan portfolios. There can be no assurance that acquisitions will have the anticipated positive results, including results relating to: • the total cost of integration; • the time required to complete the integration; • the amount of longer-term cost savings; or • the overall performance of the combined entity. Integration of an acquired business can be complex and costly, and may sometimes include combining relevant accounting and data processing systems and management controls, as well as managing relevant relationships with clients, suppliers and other business partners, as well as with employees. There is no assurance that any businesses or portfolios acquired in the future will be successfully integrated and will result in all of the positive benefits anticipated. If HUSI is not able to successfully integrate acquisitions, there is the risk that its results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risk Management HUSI seeks to monitor and manage its risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, including models and programs that predict loan delinquency and loss. While HUSI employs a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every unfavorable event or the specifics and timing of every outcome. Accordingly, HUSI’s ability to successfully identify and balance risks and rewards, and to manage all significant risks, is an important factor that can significantly impact results of operations. Employee Attraction and Retention HUSI’s employees are its most important resource and, in many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. If HUSI were unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees to support the various functions of its business, HUSI’s performance, including its competitive position, could be materially and adversely affected. Reputational Risk HUSI’s ability to attract and retain customers and conduct business transactions with its counterparties could be adversely affected to the extent that its reputation, or the reputation of affiliates operating under the HSBC brand, are damaged. Failure to address, or appearing to fail to address, various issues that could give rise to reputational risk could cause harm to HUSI and its business prospects. Reputational issues include, but are not limited to: • appropriately addressing potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements; • ethical issues; • adequacy of anti-money laundering processes; • privacy issues; • record-keeping; • sales and trading practices; • proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in products offered; and • general company performance. The failure to address these issues appropriately could make customers unwilling to do business with HUSI, which could adversely affect its results of operations. 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 