Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion provides a description of some of the important risk factors that could affect our actual results and could cause our results to vary materially from those expressed in public statements or documents. However, other factors besides those discussed below or elsewhere in other of our reports filed with or furnished to with the SEC could affect our business or results. The reader should not consider any description of such factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that we may face. The current uncertain market and economic conditions may continue to affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business and earnings are affected by general business, economic and market conditions in the United States and abroad. Given our concentration of business activities in the United States, we are particularly exposed to any additional turmoil in the economy, housing downturns, high unemployment, tighter credit conditions and reduced economic growth that have occurred over the past four years and appear likely to continue in 2012. General business, economic and market conditions that could continue to affect us include: • low consumer confidence and reduced consumer spending; • a “double dip” recession; • unemployment levels; • wage income levels and declines in wealth; • market value of residential and commercial real estate throughout the United States; • inflation; • monetary supply; • fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets in which we fund our operations; • unexpected geopolitical events; • fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar; • short-term and long-term interest rates; • availability of liquidity; • tight consumer credit conditions; • higher bankruptcy filings; and • new laws, regulations or regulatory and law enforcement initiatives. In a challenging economic environment such as is currently being experienced in the United States and abroad, more of our customers are likely to, or have in fact, become delinquent on their loans or other obligations as compared to historical periods as many of our customers are experiencing reductions in cash flow available to service their debt. These delinquencies, in turn, have adversely affected our earnings. The problems in the housing markets in the United States in the last five years have been exacerbated by continued high 17 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. unemployment rates. If businesses remain cautious to hire, additional losses are likely to be significant in all types of our consumer loans, including credit cards, due to decreased consumer income. Despite some indications of growth in employment and output in the latter part of 2011, the forecast for 2012 remains muted, with growth in gross domestic product for the United States well below trend for the past decades. Furthermore, public opinion about the state of the economy remains pessimistic, which affects not only production and consumption decisions, but also political, administrative, and regulatory priorities. Housing prices declined in 2011 and a large inventory of foreclosed properties exerted additional downward pressure on market values in many metropolitan areas. If housing prices continue to decline, there may be increased delinquency and losses in our real estate portfolio. Mortgage lenders have substantially tightened lending standards since 2007. These actions have impacted borrowers’ abilities to refinance existing mortgage loans. This, in turn, impacted both credit performance and run-off rates and has resulted in elevated delinquency rates for real estate secured loans in our portfolio. Additionally, the high levels of inventory of homes for sale combined with depressed property values in many markets has resulted in higher loss severities on homes that are foreclosed and remarketed. In the event economic conditions continue to be depressed or become further depressed and lead to a “double dip” recession, there would be a significant negative impact on delinquencies, charge-offs and losses in all loan portfolios with a corresponding impact on our results of operations. A deterioration in business and economic conditions, which may erode consumer and investor confidence levels or increased volatility of financial markets, also could adversely affect financial results for our fee-based businesses, including our financial planning products and services. Our reputation has a direct impact on our financial results and ongoing operations. Our ability to attract and retain customers and conduct business transactions with our counterparties could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation, or the reputation of affiliates operating under the HSBC brand, is damaged. Our failure to address, or to appear to fail to address, various issues that could give rise to reputational risk could cause harm to us and our business prospects. Reputational issues include, but are not limited to: • appropriately addressing potential conflicts of interest; • legal and regulatory requirements; • ethical issues, including alleged deceptive or unfair lending or pricing practices; • anti-money laundering and economic sanctions programs; • privacy issues; • fraud issues; • data security issues related to our customers or employees; • cybersecurity issues and cyber incidents, whether actual, threatened, or perceived; • recordkeeping; • sales and trading practices; • the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our businesses; • negative news about us, HSBC or the financial services industry generally; • a downgrade of or negative watch warning on any of our credit ratings; and • general company performance. The failure to address, or the perception that we have failed to address, these issues appropriately could make our customers unwilling to do business with us or give rise to increased regulatory action, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. Operational risks, such as systems disruptions or failures, breaches of security, cyberattacks, human error, changes in operational practices or inadequate controls may adversely impact our business and reputation. Operational risk is inherent in virtually all of our activities. While we have established and maintain an overall risk framework that is designed to balance strong corporate oversight with well-defined independent risk management, we continue to be subject to some degree of operational risk. Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process a large number of complex transactions, most of which involve, in some fashion, electronic devices or electronic networks. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing and other recordkeeping systems and management controls fail, are subject to cyberattack that compromises electronic devices or networks, or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. Also, in order to react quickly to or meet newly-implemented regulatory requirements, we may need to change or enhance systems within very tight time frames, which would increase operational risk. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems infrastructure arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include: • computer viruses, electrical, telecommunications, or other essential utility outages; • cyberattacks, which are deliberate attempts to gain unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or impairing operational performance; • natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes; • events arising from local, regional or international politics, including terrorist acts; • unforeseen problems encountered while implementing major new computer systems or upgrades to existing systems; or • absence of operating systems personnel due to global pandemics or otherwise, which could have a significant effect on our business operations as well as on HSBC affiliates world-wide. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers, an inability to collect our receivables in affected areas and other loss or liability to us. We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if an employee or employees, acting alone or in concert with non-affiliated third parties, causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems, including, without limitation, by means of cyberattack or denial-of-service attack. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including risks relating to break-downs or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could diminish our ability to operate one or more of our businesses, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, all of which could materially adversely affect us. In recent years, internet and other cyberattacks, identity theft and fraudulent attempts to obtain personal and financial information from individuals and from companies that maintain such information pertaining to their customers have become more prevalent. Such acts can affect our business by: • threatening the assets of our customers, potentially impacting our costumer’s ability to repay loan balances and negatively impacting their credit ratings; • causing us to incur remediation and other costs related to liability for customer or third parties for losses, repairs to remedy systems flaws, or incentives to customers and business partners to maintain and rebuild business relationships after the attack; • increasing our costs to respond to such threats and to enhance our processes and systems to ensure security of data; or • damaging our reputation from public knowledge of intrusion into our systems and databases. 19 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. In addition, there is the risk that our operating system controls as well as business continuity and data security systems could prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. Changes to operational practices from time to time could materially positively or negatively impact our performance and results. Such changes may include: • our raising the minimum payment or fees to be charged on credit card accounts; • the decision to sell credit card receivables or our determining to acquire or sell residential mortgage loans and other loans; • changes to our customer account management and risk management/collection policies and practices; • our increasing investment in technology, business infrastructure and specialized personnel; or • our outsourcing of various operations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to evaluate our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We are required to disclose, in our annual report on Form 10-K, the existence of any “material weaknesses” in our internal control. In a company as large and complex as ours, lapses or deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting may occur from time to time and we cannot assure you that we will not find one or more material weaknesses as of the end of any given year. Our financial results and condition could be adversely affected by a failure to complete or a delay in completing the sale of retail branches to First Niagara Bank, N.A. and the HSBC Card and Retail Services business to Capital One Financial Corporation. In July 2011, we announced that we had entered into an agreement to sell 195 retail branches, including certain loans, deposits and related branch premises, primarily located in upstate New York, to First Niagara Bank, N.A. In August 2011, HSBC announced that through certain of its wholly-own affiliates, including HSBC USA Inc., it had entered into an agreement to sell HSBC’s U.S. Card and Retail Services business to Capital One Financial Corporation. Both transactions are subject to regulatory approval. The sale of HSBC’s U.S. Card and Retail Services business to Capital One requires the separation of the Card and Retail Services business from the remaining businesses of HSBC in North America and, to a lesser extent, globally. Separation of the businesses is an extremely complex process and will result in a significant number of transitional service arrangements between HSBC entities and Capital One. While we expect to complete both transactions in 2012 as previously announced, the operational complexities of the separation present significant risks to our intended closing date for the sale to Capital One. Any delay in the sale of our retail branches to First Niagara Bank, N.A. or the sale of the Card and Retail Services business to Capital One would also delay realization of the financial benefits of the transactions and would have an adverse impact on our liquidity. Further, if the sale to Capital One is not completed on or before May 10, 2012, either party may, with limited exceptions, terminate the transaction. Failure to complete the sale to Capital One would have an adverse impact on our liquidity and capital position. Failure to complete either sale would also reflect negatively on our ability to execute on HSBC’s larger strategy, which could give rise to reputational risk and increased regulatory scrutiny. In connection with the sale to Capital One, we will enter into an outsourcing arrangement with Capital One with respect to the servicing of HSBC Bank USA’s retained consumer credit card program. We and our affiliates will also enter into a significant number of transitional service arrangements with Capital One with respect to the Card and Retail services business transferred to Capital One, which will continue to various dates until the separation of the Card and Retail Services business is completed. The complexities and demands of these arrangements will result in increased operational risk to us as they could divert management attention and resources from other operations, which could result in disruptions in our remaining businesses. 20 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. Changes in interest rates could reduce the value of our mortgage servicing rights and result in a significant reduction in earnings. As a residential mortgage servicer in the U.S., we have a portfolio of mortgage servicing rights (“MSRs”). An MSR is the right to service a mortgage loan – collect principal, interest and escrow amounts – for a fee, which we retain when we sell loans we have originated. We recognize MSRs as a separate and distinct asset at the time loans are sold. We initially value MSRs at fair value at the time the related loans are sold and subsequently measure MSRs at fair value at each reporting date with changes in fair value reflected in earnings in the period that the changes occur. Fair value is the present value of estimated future net servicing income, calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. MSRs are subject to interest rate risk in that their fair value will fluctuate as a result of changes in the interest rate environment. When interest rates fall, borrowers are usually more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. As the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of our MSRs can decrease. Any decrease in the fair value of our MSRs will reduce earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs, which can result in earnings volatility. While interest rate risk is mitigated through an active hedging program, hedging instruments and models that we use may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged and, as a result, a reduction in the fair value of our MSRs could have a significant adverse impact on our earnings in a given period. Exposure to European Sovereign debt may adversely impact our earnings. In 2011, a number sovereigns in the Eurozone, most notably Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, experienced periods of significant market volatility. High sovereign spreads, lack of market access, and political instability, resulted in Portugal, Greece and Ireland seeking bailout funding from the European Financial Stability Facility and International Monetary Fund in early 2011. Additionally, all three countries were downgraded by major credit rating agencies. We are exposed to certain Eurozone related risk as it relates to governments and central banks of selected Eurozone countries with near/quasi government agencies, banks and other financial institutions and other corporates. Because it is difficult to predict the speed and degree to which the economies of these countries will recover, given that they have demonstrated fiscal or political instability which may persist through 2012, it is possible that our continued exposure to these economies may adversely impact our earnings. The downgrading of U.S. debt ratings and continued economic uncertainty related to U.S. markets could negatively impact our business operations and our access to capital markets. Recent concerns regarding U.S. debt and budget matters have caused uncertainty in financial markets. Although the U.S. debt limit was increased, a failure to raise the U.S. debt limit and the downgrading of U.S. debt ratings in the future could, in addition to causing economic and financial market disruptions, materially adversely affect our ability to access capital markets on favorable terms, as well as have other material adverse effects on the operations of our business and our financial results and condition. Additionally, macroeconomic or market concerns related to the lack of confidence in the U.S. credit and debt ratings may prompt outflows from the company’s funds or accounts. The subsequent deterioration of consumer confidence may diminish the demand for the products and services of the company’s consumer business, or increase the cost to provide such products and services. Federal Reserve Board policies can significantly affect business and economic conditions and our financial results and condition. The Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. They also can materially affect the value of financial instruments we hold, such as debt securities and MSRs. Its policies also can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies are beyond our control and can be hard to predict. 21 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. Our inability to meet funding requirements due to deposit attrition or credit ratings could impact operations. Our primary source of funding is deposits, augmented by issuance of commercial paper and term debt. Adequate liquidity is critical to our ability to operate our businesses. Despite the apparent improvements in overall market liquidity and our liquidity position, future conditions that could negatively affect our liquidity include: • an inability to attract or retain deposits; • diminished access to capital markets; • unforeseen cash or capital requirements; • an inability to sell assets; and • an inability to obtain expected funding from HSBC subsidiaries and clients. These conditions could be caused by a number of factors, including factors, such as, among others: • financial and credit market disruption; • volatility or lack of market or customer confidence in financial markets; • lack of market or customer confidence in the Company or negative news about us, HSBC or the financial services industry generally; and • other conditions and factors over which we have little or no control including economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad and concerns over potential government defaults and related policy initiatives similar to concerns over the U.S. government downgrade, the potential failure of the U.S. to raise the debt limit and the ongoing European debt crisis. HSBC has provided capital support in the past and has indicated its commitment and capacity to fund the needs of the business in the future. Our credit ratings are an important part of maintaining our liquidity. Any downgrade in credit ratings could potentially increase our borrowing costs, impact our ability to issue commercial paper and, depending on the severity of the downgrade, substantially limit our access to capital markets, require us to make cash payments or post collateral and permit termination by counterparties of certain significant contracts. Competition in the financial services industry may have a material adverse impact on our future results. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Competitive conditions are expected to continue to intensify as continued merger activity in the financial services industry produces larger, better-capitalized and more geographically diverse companies. New products, customers and channels of distribution are constantly emerging. Such competition may impact the terms, rates, costs and/or profits historically included in the financial products we offer and purchase. There is no assurance that the significant and increasing competition within the financial services industry will not materially adversely affect our future results. Unanticipated risks may impact our results. We seek to monitor and manage our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, market, operational, compliance, cybersecurity and legal reporting systems, including models and programs that predict loan delinquency and loss. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques and prepare contingency plans in anticipation of developments, those techniques and plans and the judgments that accompany their application are complex and cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Accordingly, our ability to successfully identify and manage significant risks and to respond to unanticipated developments in a timely and complete manner is an important factor that can significantly impact our results. We may incur additional costs and expenses in ensuring that we satisfy requirements relating to our mortgage foreclosure processes and the industry-wide delay in processing foreclosures may have a significant impact upon loss severity. As previously reported, HSBC Bank USA has entered into the OCC Servicing Consent Order with the OCC and our affiliate, HSBC Finance Corporation, and our common indirect parent, HSBC North America have entered into a similar consent order with the Federal Reserve Board following 22 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. completion of a broad horizontal review of industry foreclosure practices. The OCC Servicing Consent Order requires HSBC Bank USA to take prescribed actions to address the deficiencies noted in the joint examination and described in the consent order. We continue to work with our regulators to align our processes with the requirements of the Servicing Consent Orders and are implementing operational changes as required. See “Executive Overview” in MD&A and Note 30, “Collateral, Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion. We expect the costs associated with the Servicing Consent Orders will result in significant increases in our operational expenses in future periods. In addition, the Servicing Consent Orders do not preclude additional enforcement actions against HSBC Bank USA or our affiliates by bank regulatory, governmental or law enforcement agencies, such as the Department of Justice or State Attorneys General, which could include the imposition of civil money penalties and other sanctions relating to the activities that are the subject of the Servicing Consent Orders. On February 9, 2012, the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and State Attorneys General of 49 states announced a settlement with the five largest U.S. mortgage servicers with respect to foreclosure and other mortgage servicing practices. HSBC North America, HSBC Finance Corporation and HSBC Bank USA have had preliminary discussions with U.S. bank regulators and other governmental agencies regarding a potential resolution, although the timing of any settlement is not presently known. Based on discussions to date, an accrual of $195 million was determined based on the total projected impact at HSBC North America associated with a proposed settlement of this matter. We have recorded an accrual of $38 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 which reflects the portion of the HSBC North America liability that we currently believe is allocable to HSBC Bank USA. As this matter progresses and more information becomes available, we will continue to evaluate our portion of the HSBC North America liability which may result in a change to our current estimate. Any such settlement, however, may not completely preclude other enforcement actions by state or federal agencies, regulators or law enforcement agencies relating to foreclosure and other mortgage services practices, including, but not limited to, matters relating to the securitization of mortgages for investors, including the imposition of civil money penalties, criminal fines or other sanctions. In addition, such a settlement would not preclude private litigation concerning foreclosure and other mortgage servicing practices and we may see an increase in private litigation concerning these practices. Beginning in late 2010, we suspended all new foreclosure proceedings and in early 2011 suspended foreclosures where judgment had not yet been entered while we enhanced our foreclosure documentation and processes. We have resumed processing the majority of suspended foreclosures in 48 states where judgment had not yet been entered and anticipate resuming suspended foreclosure activities in all states in the first quarter of 2012. We have begun initiating new foreclosure activities in 42 states and anticipate adding additional states during the first quarter of 2012. However, it will be a number of months before we resume all foreclosure activities in all states as we need to ensure we are satisfied that applicable enhanced processes have been implemented and it will take time to work through the backlog of loans that have not been referred to foreclosure in each state. We expect the number of REO properties added to inventory during 2012 will continue to be impacted by extended foreclosure timelines in all states and as we continue to refine our foreclosure processes. In addition, certain courts and state legislatures are implementing new rules or statutes relating to foreclosures. Scrutiny of foreclosure documentation has increased. Also in some areas, officials are requiring additional verification of information filed prior to the foreclosure proceeding. The combination of these factors when coupled with other mortgage lenders who also temporarily suspended foreclosure activities and have now resumed their foreclosure activities, has led to a significant backlog of foreclosures in the marketplace which will take time to resolve. If these trends continue, there could be additional delays in the processing of foreclosures, which could have an adverse impact upon housing prices which is likely to result in higher loss severities while foreclosures are delayed. Recently implemented federal, state and other similar international laws and regulations may significantly impact our operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment. Changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations, including changes in tax rates, affecting banking, consumer credit, bankruptcy, privacy, consumer protection or other matters could materially impact our performance. Ensuring compliance with increasing regulatory requirements and initiatives could affect operational costs and negatively impact our 23 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. overall results. Specifically, attempts by local, state and national regulatory agencies to address perceived problems with the mortgage lending and credit card industries and, more recently, to address additional perceived problems in the financial services industry generally through broad or targeted legislative or regulatory initiatives aimed at lenders’ operations in consumer lending markets, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of products we can offer, how these products may be originated, the fees and charges that may be applied to accounts and how accounts may be collected or security interests enforced. Any one or more of these effects could negatively impact our results. There is also significant focus on loss mitigation and foreclosure activity for real estate loans. We cannot fully anticipate the response by national regulatory agencies, State Attorneys General, or certain legislators, or if significant changes to our operations and practices will be required as a result. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was signed into law. This legislation is a sweeping overhaul of the financial regulatory system and includes many provisions specifically relevant to our businesses and the businesses of our affiliates. For a description of the law, see the “Regulation – Financial Regulatory Reform” section under the “Regulation and Competition” section of Item 1. Business. The law will have significant impact on the operations of financial institutions in the U.S., including HSBC USA, HSBC Bank USA and our affiliates. We are unable at this time, however, to determine the full impact of the law due to the significant number of new rules and regulations that will be promulgated in order to implement the law. The Dodd-Frank Act established a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) which has broad authority to regulate providers of credit, payment and other consumer financial products and services. Although we are unable to predict what specific measures this new agency may take in applying its regulatory mandate, any new regulatory requirements or changes to existing requirements that the CFPB may promulgate could require changes in our consumer businesses, result in increased compliance costs and affect the profitability of such businesses. In addition, provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may also narrow the scope of federal preemption of state consumer laws and expand the authority of State Attorneys General to bring actions to enforce federal consumer protection legislation. Similarly, regulators in the European Union (“EU”) and in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) are in the midst of proposing far-reaching programs of financial regulatory reform. These proposals include enhanced capital, leverage, and liquidity requirements, changes in compensation practices (including tax levies), separation of retail and wholesale banking, the recovery and resolution of EU financial institutions, amendments to the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and the Market Abuse directive, and measures to address systemic risk. Furthermore, certain large global systemically important banks (“G-SIBs”), including HSBC, will be subject to capital surcharges. It has not yet determined whether these G-SIB surcharges will apply to HSBC’s U.K. operations or to HSBC North America as a subsidiary of HSBC. The implementation of regulations and rules promulgated by these bodies could result in additional costs or limit or restrict the way HSBC conducts its business in the EU and, in particular, in the UK. Furthermore, the potentially far-reaching effects of future changes in laws, rules or regulations, or in their interpretation or enforcement as a result of EU or UK legislation and regulation are difficult to predict and could adversely affect HSBC USA’s operations. The transition to Basel II and new requirements under Basel III will continue to put significant pressure on regulatory capital. HSBC North America is required to adopt Basel II provisions in accordance with current regulatory timelines. In June 2011, the U.S. regulators adopted final regulations to implement the “capital floor” provision of the so-called “Collins Amendment” of Dodd-Frank. Pursuant to these regulations, a banking organization that has formally implemented Basel II must calculate its capital requirements under Basel I and Basel II, compare the two results, and then use the lower of such ratios for purposes of determining compliance with its minimum tier 1 capital and total risk-based capital requirements. Prior to adoption of Basel II, a banking organization is required to successfully complete a parallel run by measuring regulatory capital under both the new regulatory capital rules and the existing general risk-based rules for a period of at least four quarters. Successful completion of the 24 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. parallel run period requires the approval of U.S. regulators. We began the parallel run period, which encompasses enhancements to a number of risk policies, processes and systems to align HSBC Bank USA with the Basel II final rule requirements, in January 2010. The timing of receipt of approval from our primary regulator is uncertain. While HSBC USA will not report separately under the new rules, HSBC Bank USA will report under the new rules on a stand-alone basis. In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”) issued final rules on “A global regulatory framework for more resilient banks and banking systems,” commonly referred to as Basel III, which presents details of a bank capital and liquidity reform program to address both firm-specific and broader, systemic risks to the banking sector. Although the Basel Committee has issued guidance, we are still awaiting formal instructions as to how the Basel III framework will be implemented by the U.S. regulators. HSBC North America is in the process of evaluating the Basel II framework for capital and liquidity risk management. HSBC USA may need to increase its liquidity or capital profile to support HSBC North America’s compliance with the liquidity and capital requirements imposed by the new rules. Further increases in regulatory capital may be required in response to the implementation of Basel III. The exact amount, however, will depend upon our prevailing risk profile and that of our North America affiliates under various stress scenarios. We are unable at this time, however, to determine the extent of changes HSBC USA will need to make to its liquidity or capital position, if any, and what effect, if any, such changes will have on our results of operations or financial condition. New regulatory capital and liquidity requirements may limit or otherwise restrict how we utilize our capital and may require us to increase our capital or liquidity. Any requirement that we increase our regulatory capital, regulatory capital ratios or liquidity could require us to liquidate assets or otherwise change our business and/or investment plans, which may negatively affect our financial results. We may incur additional costs and expenses relating to mortgage loan repurchases and other mortgage loan securitization-related activities. In connection with our loan sale and securitization activities with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the “Government Sponsored Entities” or “GSEs”) and loan sale and private-label securitization transactions, HUSI has made representations and warranties that the loans sold meet certain requirements. For transactions with the GSEs, these representations include type of collateral, underwriting standards, validity of certain borrower representations in connection with the loan, that primary mortgage insurance is in force for any mortgage loan with a loan-to-value ratio (“LTV”) greater than 80 percent, and the use of the GSEs’ standard legal documentation. We may be, and have been, required to repurchase loans and/or indemnify the GSEs and other private investors for losses due to breaches of these representations and warranties. In estimating our repurchase liability arising from breaches of representations and warranties, we consider several factors, including the level of outstanding repurchase demands in inventory and our historical defense rate, the level of outstanding requests for loan files and the related historical repurchase request conversion rate and defense rate, and the level of potential future demands based on historical conversion rates of loans for which we have not received a loan file request but are two or more payments delinquent or expected to become delinquent at an estimated conversion rate. While we believe that our current repurchase liability reserves are adequate, the factors referred to above are dependent on economic factors, investor demand strategies, housing market trends and other circumstances, which are beyond our control and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that such reserves will not need to be increased in the future. We have also been involved as a sponsor/seller of loans used to facilitate whole loan securitizations underwritten by our affiliate, HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. (“HSI”). Participants in the U.S. mortgage securitization market that purchased and repackaged whole loans have been the subject of lawsuits and governmental and regulatory investigations and inquiries, which have been directed at groups within the U.S. mortgage market, such as servicers, originators, trustees or sponsors of securitizations, and at particular participants within these groups. We expect this level of focus will continue and, potentially, intensify, so long as the U.S. real estate markets continue to be distressed. As a result, we may be subject to additional litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny related to our participation in the U.S. mortgage securitization market, either individually or as a member of group. 25 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. Lawsuits and regulatory investigations and proceedings may continue and increase in the current economic and regulatory environment. In the ordinary course of business, HSBC USA and its affiliates are routinely named as defendants in, or as parties to, various legal actions and proceedings relating to our current and/or former operations and are subject to governmental and regulatory examinations, information-gathering requests, investigations and formal and informal proceedings, as described in Note 30, “Collateral, Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions and other relief. There is no certainty that the litigation will decrease in the near future, especially in the event of continued high unemployment rates, a resurgent recession or additional regulatory and law enforcement investigations and proceedings by federal and state governmental agencies. Further, with the environment of heightened regulatory scrutiny, particularly in the financial services industry, there may be additional regulatory investigations and reviews conducted by banking and other regulators, including the newly-formed CFPB, State Attorneys General or state regulatory and law enforcement agencies that, if determined adversely, may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results, including additional compliance requirements, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause serious reputational harm. Management projections, estimates and judgments based on historical performance may not be indicative of our future performance. Our management is required to use certain estimates in preparing our financial statements, including accounting estimates to determine loan loss reserves, reserves related to litigation, deferred tax assets and the fair market value of certain assets and liabilities, including goodwill and intangibles, among other items. In particular, loan loss reserve estimates and certain asset and liability valuations are subject to management’s judgment and actual results are influenced by factors outside our control. To the extent historical averages of the progression of loans into stages of delinquency or the amount of loss realized upon charge-off are not predictive of future losses and management is unable to accurately evaluate the portfolio risk factors not fully reflected in historical models, unexpected additional losses could result. Similarly, to the extent assumptions employed in measuring fair value of assets and liabilities not supported by market prices or other observable parameters do not sufficiently capture their inherent risk, unexpected additional losses could result. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets and record a charge to income or shareholders’ equity if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future taxable income based on management approved business plans, future capital requirements and ongoing tax planning strategies, including capital support from HSBC necessary as part of such plans and strategies. This evaluation process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period. The recognition of deferred tax assets requires management to make significant judgments about future earnings, the periods in which items will impact taxable income, future corporate tax rates, and the application of inherently complex tax laws. The use of different estimates can result in changes in the amounts of deferred tax items recognized, which can result in equity and earnings volatility because such changes are reported in current period earnings. See Note 19, “Income Taxes,” in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of our deferred tax assets. Changes in accounting standards are beyond our control and may have a material impact on how we report our financial results and condition. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”), the SEC and our bank regulators, including the Office of Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve Board, change the financial accounting and reporting standards, or the interpretation thereof, and guidance that govern the preparation and disclosure of external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report and disclose our financial results and condition, including our segment results. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. We may, in certain instances, change a business practice in order to comply with new or revised standards. 26 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. Key employees may be difficult to retain due to contraction of the business and limits on promotional activities. Our employees are our most important resource and, in many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. If we were unable to continue to attract and retain qualified key employees to support the various functions of our businesses, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. Our recent financial performance, reductions in variable compensation and other benefits and the expectation of continued weakness in the general economy could raise concerns about key employees’ future compensation and opportunities for promotion. As economic conditions improve, we may face increased difficulty in retaining top performers and critical skilled employees. If key personnel were to leave us and equally knowledgeable or skilled personnel are unavailable within HSBC or could not be sourced in the market, our ability to manage our business, in particular through any continued or future difficult economic environment may be hindered or impaired. Significant reductions in pension assets may require additional financial contributions from us. Effective January 1, 2005, our previously separate qualified defined benefit pension plan was combined with that of HSBC Finance’s into a single HSBC North America qualified defined benefit plan. At December 31, 2010, the defined benefit plan was frozen, significantly reducing future benefit accruals. At December 31, 2011, plan assets were lower than projected plan liabilities resulting in an under-funded status. The accumulated benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of the plan assets by approximately $790 million. As these obligations relate to the HSBC North America pension plan, only a portion of this deficit could be considered our responsibility. We and other HSBC North America affiliates with employees participating in this plan will be required to make up this shortfall over a number of years as specified under the Pension Protection Act. This can be accomplished through direct contributions, appreciation in plan assets and/or increases in interest rates resulting in lower liability valuations. See Note 23, “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits,” in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information concerning the HSBC North America defined benefit plan. The inability to integrate business and portfolio acquisitions successfully could undermine the realization of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition and have a material adverse impact on our results of operation. We have in the past, and may again in the future, seek to grow our business by acquiring other businesses or loan portfolios. There can be no assurance that acquisitions will have the anticipated positive results, including results relating to: • the total cost of integration; • the time and focus of management required to complete the integration; • the amount of longer-term cost savings; or • the overall performance of the combined entity. Integration of an acquired business can be complex and costly, and may sometimes include combining relevant accounting, data processing and other record keeping systems and management controls, as well as managing relevant relationships with clients, suppliers and other business partners, as well as with employees. There is no assurance that any businesses or portfolios acquired in the future will be successfully integrated and will result in all of the positive benefits anticipated. If we are not able to successfully integrate acquisitions, there is the risk that its results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff that have been outstanding for more than 180 days at December 31, 2011. 