Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion provides a description of some of the important risk factors that could affect our actual results and could cause our results to vary materially from those expressed in public statements or documents. However, other factors besides those discussed below or elsewhere in other of our reports filed with or furnished to with the SEC could affect our business or results. The reader should not consider any description of such factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that we may face.The current uncertain market and economic conditions may continue to affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business and earnings are affected by general business, economic and market conditions in the United States and abroad. Given our concentration of business activities in the United States, we are particularly exposed to any additional turmoil in the economy, housing downturns, high unemployment, tighter credit conditions and reduced economic growth that have occurred over the past four years and appear likely to continue in 2013. General business, economic and market conditions that could continue to affect us include: •low consumer confidence and reduced consumer spending;•slow economic growth or a “double dip” recession;•unemployment levels;•wage income levels and declines in wealth;•market value of residential and commercial real estate throughout the United States;•inflation;•monetary supply and monetary policy;•fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets in which we fund our operations;•unexpected geopolitical events;•fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar;•short-term and long-term interest rates;•availability of liquidity;•tight consumer credit conditions;•higher bankruptcy filings; and•new laws, regulations or regulatory and law enforcement initiatives.In a challenging economic environment such as is currently being experienced in the United States and abroad, more of our customers are likely to, or have in fact, become delinquent on their loans or other obligations as compared to historical periods as many of our customers are experiencing reductions in cash flow available to service their debt. These delinquencies, in turn, have adversely affected our earnings. The problems in the housing markets in the United States in the last five years have been exacerbated by continued high unemployment rates. If businesses remain cautious to hire, additional losses are likely to be significant in all types of our consumer loans, including credit cards, due to decreased consumer income. While the U.S. economy continued its gradual recovery in 2012, gross domestic product continued at a level well below the economy's potential growth rate. Concerns about the future of the U.S. economy, including the pace and magnitude of recovery from the recent economic recession, consumer confidence, fiscal policy, volatility in energy prices, credit market volatility, including the ability to resolve the European sovereign debt crisis, and trends incorporate earnings, will continue to influence the U.S. economy and the capital markets. In the event economic conditions stop improving or become further depressed and lead to a “double dip” recession, there would be a significant negative impact on delinquencies, charge-offs and losses in all loan portfolios with a corresponding impact on our results of operations. While the housing markets in general began to rebound in the second half of 2012, housing prices will remain under pressure in many markets as mortgage servicers resume foreclosure activities and the underlying properties are listed for sale. Although levels of properties available for sale have declined, levels of properties in the process of foreclosure remain elevated, which continued to impact home prices in 2012. As mortgage servicers begin to increase foreclosure activities and market properties in large numbers, an over-supply of housing inventory could occur and create downward pressure on property values.Mortgage lenders have substantially tightened lending standards since 2007. These actions have impacted borrowers' abilities to refinance existing mortgage loans. This, in turn, impacted both credit performance and run-off rates and has resulted in elevated delinquency rates for real estate secured loans in our portfolio. Additionally, the high levels of inventory of homes for sale combined with depressed property values in many markets has resulted in higher loss severities on homes that are foreclosed and remarketed. 19HSBC USA Inc.A deterioration in business and economic conditions, which may erode consumer and investor confidence levels or increased volatility of financial markets, also could adversely affect financial results for our fee-based businesses, including our financial planning products and services. Recently implemented federal, state and other similar international laws and regulations may significantly impact our operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment. Changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations, including changes in tax rates, affecting banking, derivatives, consumer credit, bankruptcy, privacy, consumer protection or other matters could materially impact our performance. Ensuring compliance with increasing regulatory requirements and initiatives could affect operational costs and negatively impact our overall results. Specifically, attempts by local, state and national regulatory agencies to address perceived problems with the mortgage lending and credit card industries and, more recently, to address additional perceived problems in the financial services industry generally through broad or targeted legislative or regulatory initiatives aimed at lenders’ operations in consumer lending markets, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of products we can offer, how these products may be originated, the fees and charges that may be applied to accounts and how accounts may be collected or security interests enforced. Any one or more of these effects could negatively impact our results. There is also significant focus on loss mitigation and foreclosure activity for real estate loans. We cannot fully anticipate the response by national regulatory agencies, State Attorneys General, or certain legislators, or if significant changes to our operations and practices will be required as a result.On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was signed into law. This legislation is a sweeping overhaul of the financial regulatory system and includes many provisions specifically relevant to our businesses and the businesses of our affiliates. For a description of the law, see the “Regulation – Financial Regulatory Reform” section under the “Regulation and Competition” section of Item 1. Business. The law will have a significant impact on the operations of many financial institutions in the U.S., including HSBC USA, HSBC Bank USA and our affiliates. We are unable at this time, however, to determine precisely the impact of the law due to the significant number of new rules and regulations that will be promulgated in order to implement the law.The Dodd-Frank Act established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) which has broad authority to regulate providers of credit, payment and other consumer financial products and services. In addition, provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may also narrow the scope of federal preemption of state consumer laws and expand the authority of State Attorneys General to bring actions to enforce federal consumer protection legislation. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act's potential expansion of the authority of state attorneys general to bring actions to enforce federal consumer protection legislation, we could potentially be subject to additional state lawsuits and enforcement actions, thereby further increasing its legal and compliance costs. Although we are unable to predict what specific measures the CFPB may take in applying its regulatory mandate, any new regulatory requirements or changes to existing requirements that the CFPB may promulgate could require changes in our consumer businesses and result in increased compliance costs and impair the profitability of such businesses.Under the Dodd-Frank Act, certain of our affiliates and subsidiaries, including HSBC Bank USA, have registered as swap dealers and are now subject to extensive oversight by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”). Regulation of swap dealers by the CFTC will impose numerous corporate governance, business conduct, capital, margin, reporting, clearing, execution and other regulatory requirements on HSBC Bank USA which may adversely affect our derivatives business and make us less competitive, especially as compared to foreign competition not subject to such regulation. However, although many significant regulations applicable to swap dealers are already in effect, we are unable at this time to determine the full impact of these requirements because some of the most important rules, such as margin requirements, have not yet been implemented.The total impact of the Dodd-Frank Act cannot be fully assessed without taking into consideration how non-U.S. policymakers and regulators will respond to the Dodd-Frank Act and the implementing regulations under the Act, and how the cumulative effects of both U.S. and non-U.S. laws and regulations will affect our businesses and operations. Additional legislative or regulatory actions in the United States, the European Union (“EU”) or in other countries could result in a significant loss of revenue, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in which we might otherwise consider engaging, affect the value of assets that we hold, require us to increase our prices and therefore reduce demand for our products, impose additional costs on us, or otherwise adversely affect our businesses. Accordingly, any such new or additional legislation or regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.Regulators in the EU and in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) are in the midst of proposing far-reaching programs of financial regulatory reform. These proposals include enhanced capital, leverage, and liquidity requirements, changes in compensation practices (including tax levies), separation of retail and wholesale banking, the recovery and resolution of EU financial institutions, amendments to the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and the Market Abuse directive, and measures to address systemic risk. Furthermore, certain large global systemically important banks (“G-SIBs”), including HSBC, will be subject to capital surcharges. It has not yet been determined whether these G-SIB surcharges will apply to HSBC’s U.K. operations or to HSBC North America as a subsidiary of HSBC.20HSBC USA Inc.The implementation of regulations and rules promulgated by these bodies could result in additional costs or limit or restrict the way HSBC conducts its business in the EU and, in particular, in the U.K. Furthermore, the potentially far-reaching effects of future changes in laws, rules or regulations, or in their interpretation or enforcement as a result of EU or U.K. legislation and regulation are difficult to predict and could adversely affect HSBC USA’s operations.The transition to Basel II and new requirements under Basel III will continue to put significant pressure on regulatory capital. HSBC North America is required to meet consolidated regulatory capital requirements, including new or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance, in accordance with current regulatory timelines. The U.S.'s current general risk-based capital guidelines are based on the 1988 Capital Accord (“Basel I”) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”). The Basel Committee issued in June 2004, and updated in November 2005, a revised framework for capital adequacy commonly known as “Basel II” that sets capital requirements for operational risk and refines the existing capital requirements for credit risk. The U.S. federal banking regulators have adopted Basel II's advanced internal ratings based approach for credit risk and its advanced measurement approach for operational risk (taken together, the “Advanced Approaches”) for banking organizations having $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets or $10 billion or more of foreign exposures (referred to as Advanced Approaches banking organizations, which includes banking organizations such as HSBC North America and HSBC USA).In response to Section 171 of the Dodd-Frank Act, the U.S. banking regulators adopted a final rule in 2011 to replace the transitional floors in the U.S. regulators' Basel II approaches with a permanent capital floor equal to the risk-based capital requirements under the existing Basel I risk-based capital guidelines. As a result, U.S. Advanced Approaches banking organizations will be required to calculate their risk-based capital ratios under both the regulators' general risk-based capital rules and their Basel II-based Advanced Approaches. The Advanced Approaches banking organizations will continue to use the current Basel I-based capital guidelines for purposes of the capital floor until January 1, 2015, which is the effective date of the Standardized Approach, discussed below, unless they elect to adopt the Standardized Approach as the capital floor earlier than this date.In June 2012, U.S. regulators issued final rule, known in the industry as Basel 2.5, that would change the US regulatory market risk capital rules to better capture positions for which the market risk capital rules are appropriate, reduce procyclicality, enhance the sensitivity to risks that are not adequately captured under current methodologies and increase transparency through enhanced disclosures. This final rule became effective January 1, 2013. We estimate that this rule will add up to 10 percent to our December 31, 2012 Basel I risk-weighted asset levels.In December 2010, the Basel Committee issued final rules on “A global regulatory framework for more resilient banks and banking systems,” commonly referred to as Basel III, which presents details of a bank capital and liquidity reform program to address both firm-specific and broader, systemic risks to the banking sector. Three notices of proposed rulemaking (“NPRs”), released by the U.S. banking regulators in June 2012, would both implement many of the capital provisions of Basel III for U.S. banking institutions and substantially revise the U.S. banking regulators' Basel I risk-based capital guidelines -referred to in the NPRs as the “Standardized Approach” - to make them more risk sensitive. Comments on the NPRs were due October 22, 2012. As proposed by the NPRs, the implementation of Basel III was to become effective January 1, 2013, with phase-in periods (to January 1, 2019) that are consistent with the Basel III framework. As proposed, the new risk-weight categories in the Standardized Approach will not become effective until January 1, 2015. As a result of the large number of detailed comments received on the NPR, the U.S. regulators announced that the new proposal would not take effect on January 1, 2013, as proposed. However, the Federal Reserve stated in its capital plan guidance that it expects bank holding companies subject to the guidance (including HSBC North America) to achieve, readily and without difficulty, the ratios required by the Basel III framework as it would come into effect in the United States. In this regard, the Federal Reserve stated that bank holding companies that meet the minimum ratio requirement during the Basel III transition period but remain below the 7 percent Tier 1 common equity target (minimum plus capital conservation buffer) will be expected to maintain prudent earnings retention policies with a view to meeting the conservation buffer under the time-frame described in the Basel III NPR.Basel III, including as proposed by the NPRs to be implemented in the United States, would redefine the components of capital in the numerators of regulatory capital ratios in a more narrow way than existing Basel I and Basel II standards, increase the minimum risk-based capital ratios under both the regulators' Basel II Advanced Approaches and Basel I risk-based capital guidelines, and primarily with respect to securitizations and exposures to certain counterparties, change the measure of risk-weighted assets in the denominators of regulatory capital ratios. The components of the NPRs related to the Standardized Approach would amend the regulators' existing Basel I risk-based capital guidelines and replace the risk-weighting categories currently used to calculate risk-weighted assets in the denominator of capital ratios with a broader array of risk weighting categories that are intended to be more risk sensitive. The new risk-weights for the Standardized Approach range from 0% to 600% as compared to the risk weights of 0% to 100%, under the regulators' existing Basel I risk-based capital guidelines. Higher risk weights would apply to a variety of exposures, including certain securitization exposures, equity exposures, claims on securities firms and exposures to counterparties on OTC derivatives.21HSBC USA Inc.Prior to adoption of the Advanced Approaches, a banking organization is required to successfully complete a parallel run by measuring regulatory capital under both the Advanced Approaches and the existing general risk-based capital rules for a period of at least four quarters. Successful completion of the parallel run period requires the approval of U.S. regulators. We began the parallel run period, which encompasses enhancements to a number of risk policies, processes and systems to align HSBC Bank USA with the Basel II final rule requirements, in January 2010. The timing of receipt of approval from our primary regulator is uncertain. While HSBC USA will not report separately under the new rules, HSBC Bank USA will report under the new rules on a stand-alone basis, and as a subsidiary of HSBC North America we may be required to execute certain actions or strategies to ensure HSBC North America meets its capital requirements. HSBC North America is in the process of evaluating the Basel III framework for liquidity risk management. HSBC USA may need to increase its liquidity profile to support HSBC North America's compliance with the new rules. Further increases in regulatory capital may be required in response to the implementation of Basel III and other U.S. supervisory requirements relating to capital and liquidity. The exact amount, however, will depend upon our prevailing risk profile and that of our North America affiliates under various stress scenarios. We are unable at this time, however, to determine the extent of changes HSBC USA will need to make to its liquidity or capital position, if any, and what effect, if any, such changes will have on our results of operations or financial condition. New regulatory capital and liquidity requirements may limit or otherwise restrict how we utilize our capital and may require us to increase our capital or liquidity. Any requirement that we increase our regulatory capital, regulatory capital ratios or liquidity could require us to liquidate assets or otherwise change our business and/or investment plans, which may negatively affect our financial results.Regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions and requirements relating to conduct of business and financial crime could negatively affect our results and brand. Financial service providers are at risk of regulatory sanctions or fines related to conduct of business and financial crime. The incidence of regulatory proceedings and other adversarial proceedings against financial service firms is increasing. In December 2012, HSBC, HSBC North America and HSBC Bank USA entered into agreements to achieve a resolution with U.S. and United Kingdom government agencies that have investigated HSBC's conduct related to inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering, Bank Secrecy Act and sanctions laws, including the previously reported investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice, the Federal Reserve, the OCC and the U.S. Department of Treasury's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (“FinCEN”) in connection with AML/BSA compliance, including cross-border transactions involving our cash handling business in Mexico and banknotes business in the U.S., and the U.S. Department of Justice, the New York County District Attorney's Office, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”), the Federal Reserve and the OCC regarding historical transactions involving Iranian parties and other parties subject to OFAC economic sanctions. As part of the resolution, HSBC entered into a deferred prosecution agreement among HSBC, HSBC Bank USA, the U.S. Department of Justice, the United States Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York, and the United States Attorney's Office for the Northern District of West Virginia (the "U.S. DPA"), and a deferred prosecution agreement with the New York County District Attorney, and consented to a cease and desist order and, along with HSBC North America, consented to a monetary penalty order with the Federal Reserve. In addition, HSBC Bank USA entered into the U.S. DPA, an agreement and consent orders with the OCC, and a consent order with FinCEN. HSBC also entered into an undertaking with the U.K. Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) to comply with certain forward-looking obligations with respect to anti-money laundering and sanctions requirements over a five-year term. HSBC Bank USA also entered into separate consent order and agreements with the OCC requiring adoption of an enterprise-wide compliance program, as part of which HSBC USA and its parent holding companies may not engage in any new types of financial activities without the prior approval of the FEderal Reserve Board, and HSBC Bank USA may not directly or indirectly acquire control of, or hold an interest in, any new financial subsidiary, nor commence a new activity in its existing financial subsidiary, unless it receives prior approval from the OCC. Under these agreements, HSBC and HSBC Bank USA made payments totaling $1.921 billion to U.S. authorities, $1.381 billion of which was attributed to and paid by HSBC Bank USA, and will continue to cooperate fully with U.S. and U.K. regulatory and law enforcement authorities and take further action to strengthen their compliance policies and procedures. Over the five-year term of the U.S. DPA and agreement with the FSA, a "skilled person" under Section 166 of the Financial Services and Markets Act (also referred to as an independent monitor) will evaluate HSBC's progress in fully implementing these and other measures it recommends, and will produce regular assessments of the effectiveness of HSBC's compliance function. If HSBC fulfills all of the requirements imposed by the U.S. DPA and other agreements, the U.S. Department of Justice's charges against it will be dismissed at the end of the five-year period. The U.S. DPA remains subject to certain proceedings before the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The U.S. Department of Justice or the New York County District Attorney's Office may prosecute HSBC or HSBC Bank USA in relation to the matters that are the subject of the U.S. DPA if HSBC or HSBC Bank USA breaches the terms of the U.S. DPA. In the event of the prosecution of criminal charges, there could be significant consequences to HSBC and its affiliates, including loss of business, withdrawal of funding and harm to our reputation, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, the settlement with regulators does not preclude private litigation relating to, among other things, HSBC's compliance with applicable anti-money 22HSBC USA Inc.laundering, BSA and sanctions laws, which, if determined adversely, may result in judgments, settlements or other results that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause serious reputational harm.Failure to comply with certain regulatory requirements would have an adverse material effect on our results and operations. As reflected in the agreement entered into with the OCC on December 11, 2012 (the “GLBA Agreement”), the OCC has determined that HSBC Bank USA is not in compliance with the requirements set forth in 12 U.S.C. § 24a(a)(2)(c) and 12 C.F.R. § 5.39(g)(1), which provide that a national bank and each depository institution affiliate of the national bank must be both well capitalized and well managed in order to own or control a financial subsidiary. As a result, HSBC USA and its parent holding companies no longer meet the qualification requirements for financial holding company status and may not engage in any new types of financial activities without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board. In addition, HSBC Bank USA may not directly or indirectly acquire control of, or hold an interest in, any new financial subsidiary, nor commence a new activity in its existing financial subsidiary, unless it receives prior approval from the OCC. If all of our affiliate depositary institutions are not in compliance with these requirements within the time periods specified in the GLBA Agreement, as they may be extended, HSBC USA could be required either to divest HSBC Bank USA or to divest or terminate any financial activities conducted in reliance on the GLB Act. Similar consequences could result for subsidiaries of HSBC Bank USA that engage in financial activities in reliance on expanded powers provided for in the GLB Act. Any such divestiture or termination of activities would have an adverse material effect on the consolidated results and operation of HSBC USA.We may incur additional costs and expenses in ensuring that we satisfy requirements relating to our mortgage foreclosure processes and the industry-wide delay in processing foreclosures may have a significant impact upon loss severity. As previously reported, HSBC Bank USA entered into the OCC Servicing Consent Order with the OCC and our affiliate, HSBC Finance Corporation, and our common indirect parent, HSBC North America entered into a similar consent order with the Federal Reserve Board following completion of a broad horizontal review of industry foreclosure practices. The OCC Servicing Consent Order requires HSBC Bank USA to take prescribed actions to address the deficiencies noted in the joint examination and described in the consent order. We continue to work with our regulators to align our processes with the requirements of the Servicing Consent Orders and are implementing operational changes as required. The Servicing Consent Orders required an independent review of foreclosures (“the Independent Foreclosure Review”) pending or completed between January 2009 and December 2010 to determine if any borrower was financially injured as a result of an error in the foreclosure process. On February 28, 2013, HSBC Bank USA entered into an agreement with the OCC, and our indirect parent, HSBC North America, and our affiliate, HSBC Finance Corporation, entered into an agreement with the Federal Reserve, pursuant to which the Independent Foreclosure Review will cease and HSBC North America will make a cash payment of $96 million into a fund that will be used to make payments to borrowers that were in active foreclosure during 2009 and 2010 and, in addition, will provide other assistance (e.g. loan modifications) to help eligible borrowers. As a result, in 2012, we recorded expenses of $19 million, which reflects the portion of HSBC North America's total expense of $104 million that we believe is allocable to us. See “Executive Overview” in MD&A and Note 30, “Litigation and Regulatory Matters,” in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion. While we believe compliance related costs have permanently increased to higher levels due to the remediation requirements of the regulatory consent agreements.In addition, the Servicing Consent Orders do not preclude additional enforcement actions against HSBC Bank USA or our affiliates by bank regulatory, governmental or law enforcement agencies, such as the Department of Justice or State Attorneys General, which could include sanctions relating to the activities that are the subject of the Servicing Consent Orders as well as the imposition of civil money penalties by regulatory agencies. Separate from the Servicing Consent Orders and the settlement related to the Independent Foreclosure Review discussed above, in February 2012, the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and State Attorneys General of 49 states announced a settlement with the five largest U.S. mortgage servicers with respect to foreclosure and other mortgage servicing practices. HSBC North America, HSBC Finance Corporation and HSBC Bank USA have had preliminary discussions with U.S. bank regulators and other governmental agencies regarding a potential resolution, although the timing of any settlement is not presently known. We recorded an accrual of $38 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 which reflects the portion of the HSBC North America accrual that we currently believe is allocable to HSBC Bank USA. As this matter progresses and more information becomes available, we will continue to evaluate our portion of the HSBC North America liability which may result in a change to our current estimate. Any such settlement, however, may not completely preclude other enforcement actions by state or federal agencies, regulators or law enforcement agencies relating to foreclosure and other mortgage services practices, including, but not limited to, matters relating to the securitization of mortgages for investors, including the imposition of civil money penalties, criminal fines or other sanctions. In addition, such a settlement would not preclude private litigation concerning foreclosure and other mortgage servicing practices and we may see an increase in private litigation concerning these practices.Beginning in late 2010, we temporarily suspended all new foreclosure proceedings and in early 2011 temporarily suspended foreclosures in process where judgment had not yet been entered while we enhanced foreclosure documentation and processes for 23HSBC USA Inc.foreclosures and re-filed affidavits where necessary. We have resumed processing suspended foreclosure activities in substantially all states and have now referred the majority of the backlog of loans for foreclosure. We have also begun initiating new foreclosure activities in substantially all states. We expect the number of REO properties added to inventory may increase during 2013 although the number of new REO properties added to inventory will continue to be impacted by our ongoing refinements to our foreclosure processes as well as the extended foreclosure timelines in all states.In addition, certain courts and state legislatures have issued new rules or statutes relating to foreclosures. Scrutiny of foreclosure documentation has increased in some courts. Also in some areas, officials are requiring additional verification of information filed prior to the foreclosure proceeding. The combination of these factors has led to a significant backlog of foreclosures which will take time to resolve. If these trends continue, there could be additional delays in the processing of foreclosures, which could have an adverse impact upon housing prices which is likely to result in higher loss severities while foreclosures are delayed.Our reputation has a direct impact on our financial results and ongoing operations. Our ability to attract and retain customers and conduct business transactions with our counterparties could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation, or the reputation of affiliates operating under the HSBC brand, is damaged. Our failure to address, or to appear to fail to address, various issues that could give rise to reputational risk could cause harm to us and our business prospects. Reputational issues include, but are not limited to:•negative news about us, HSBC or the financial services industry generally;•appropriately addressing potential conflicts of interest;•legal and regulatory requirements;•ethical issues, including alleged deceptive or unfair lending or pricing practices;•anti-money laundering and economic sanctions programs;•privacy issues;•fraud issues;•data security issues related to our customers or employees;•cybersecurity issues and cyber incidents, whether actual, threatened, or perceived;•recordkeeping;•sales and trading practices;•customer service;•the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our businesses;•a downgrade of or negative watch warning on any of our credit ratings; and•general company performance.The proliferation of social media websites as well as the personal use of social media by our employees and others, including personal blogs and social network profiles, also may increase the risk that negative, inappropriate or unauthorized information may be posted or released publicly that could harm our reputation or have other negative consequences, including as a result of our employees interacting with our customers in an unauthorized manner in various social media outlets.The failure to address, or the perception that we have failed to address any of these issues appropriately could make our customers unwilling to do business with us or give rise to increased regulatory action, which could adversely affect our results of operations.Operational risks, such as systems disruptions or failures, breaches of security, cyberattacks, human error, changes in operational practices or inadequate controls may adversely impact our business and reputation. Operational risk is inherent in virtually all of our activities. While we have established and maintain an overall risk framework that is designed to balance strong corporate oversight with well-defined independent risk management, we continue to be subject to some degree of operational risk. Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process a large number of complex transactions, most of which involve, in some fashion, electronic devices or electronic networks. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing and other recordkeeping systems and management controls fail, are subject to cyberattack that compromises electronic devices or networks, or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. Also, in order to react quickly to or meet newly-implemented regulatory requirements, we may need to change or enhance systems within very tight time frames, which would increase operational risk.We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems infrastructure arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include:•computer viruses, electrical, telecommunications, or other essential utility outages;24HSBC USA Inc.•cyberattacks, which are deliberate attempts to gain unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or impairing operational performance;•natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes;•events arising from local, regional or international politics, including terrorist acts;•unforeseen problems encountered while implementing major new computer systems or upgrades to existing systems; or•absence of operating systems personnel due to global pandemics or otherwise, which could have a significant effect on our business operations as well as on HSBC affiliates world-wide.Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers, an inability to collect our receivables in affected areas and other loss or liability to us.We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if an employee or employees, acting alone or in concert with non-affiliated third parties, causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems, including, without limitation, by means of cyberattack or denial-of-service attack. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including risks relating to break-downs or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could diminish our ability to operate one or more of our businesses, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, all of which could materially adversely affect us.In recent years, internet and other cyberattacks, identity theft and fraudulent attempts to obtain personal and financial information from individuals and from companies that maintain such information pertaining to their customers have become more prevalent. Such acts can affect our business by:•threatening the assets of our customers, potentially impacting our costumer’s ability to repay loan balances and negatively impacting their credit ratings;•causing us to incur remediation and other costs related to liability for customer or third parties for losses, repairs to remedy systems flaws, or incentives to customers and business partners to maintain and rebuild business relationships after the attack;•increasing our costs to respond to such threats and to enhance our processes and systems to ensure security of data; or•damaging our reputation from public knowledge of intrusion into our systems and databases.The threat from cyberattacks is a concern for our organization and failure to protect our operations from internet crime or cyberattacks may result in financial loss and loss of customer data or other sensitive information which could undermine our reputation and our ability to attract and keep customers. We face various cyber risks in line with other multinational organizations. During 2012, HSBC was subjected to several 'denial of service' attacks on our external facing websites across Latin America, Asia and North America. A denial of service attack is the attempt to intentionally paralyze a computer network by flooding it with data sent simultaneously from many individual computers. One of these attacks affected several geographical regions and lasted a number of hours; there was limited effect from the other attacks with services maintained. We did not experience any loss of data as a result of these attacks.In addition, there is the risk that our operating system controls as well as business continuity and data security systems could prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance.Changes to operational practices from time to time could materially positively or negatively impact our performance and results. Such changes may include:•our raising the minimum payment or fees to be charged on credit card accounts;•the decision to sell credit card receivables or our determining to acquire or sell residential mortgage loans and other loans;•changes to our customer account management and risk management/collection policies and practices;•our ability to attract and retain key employees;•our increasing investment in technology, business infrastructure and specialized personnel; or•our outsourcing of various operations.The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to evaluate our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We are required to disclose, in our annual report on Form 10-K, the existence of any “material weaknesses” in our internal control. In a company as large and complex as ours, lapses or deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting 25HSBC USA Inc.may occur from time to time and we cannot assure you that we will not find one or more material weaknesses as of the end of any given year.Exposure to certain countries in the eurozone may adversely impact our earnings. Eurozone countries are members of the European Union and part of the euro single currency bloc. The peripheral eurozone countries are those that exhibited levels of market volatility that exceeded other eurozone countries, demonstrating fiscal or political uncertainty which may persist in 2013. In 2012, in spite of improvements through austerity and structural reforms, the peripheral countries of Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain continued to exhibit a high ratio of sovereign debt to GDP or short to medium-term maturity concentration of their liabilities, with Greece, Spain and Cypress seeking assistance to meet sovereign liabilities or direct support for banking sector recapitalization. During 2012, we continued to reduce our overall net exposure to counterparties domiciled in other eurozone countries that had exposures to sovereign and/or banks in peripheral eurozone countries of sufficient size to threaten their on-going viability in the event of an unfavorable conclusion to the current crisis. However, we continue to be exposed to certain eurozone related risk as it relates to governments and central banks of selected eurozone countries with near/quasi government agencies, banks and other financial institutions and other corporates. Because it is difficult to predict the speed and degree to which the economies of these countries will recover, given that they have demonstrated fiscal or political instability which may persist through 2013, it is possible that our continued exposure to these economies may adversely impact our earnings.Continued economic uncertainty related to U.S. markets could negatively impact our business operations and our access to capital markets. Recent concerns regarding U.S. debt and budget matters have caused uncertainty in financial markets. Although the U.S. debt limit was increased, a failure to raise the U.S. debt limit and the downgrading of U.S. debt ratings in the future could, in addition to causing economic and financial market disruptions, materially adversely affect our ability to access capital markets on favorable terms, as well as have other material adverse effects on the operations of our business and our financial results and condition. Additionally, macroeconomic or market concerns related to the lack of confidence in the U.S. credit and debt ratings may prompt outflows from the company’s funds or accounts. The subsequent deterioration of consumer confidence may diminish the demand for the products and services of the company’s consumer business, or increase the cost to provide such products and services.Federal Reserve Board policies can significantly affect business and economic conditions and our financial results and condition. The Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. They also can materially affect the value of financial instruments we hold, such as debt securities and MSRs. Its policies also can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in Federal Reserve Board policies are beyond our control and can be hard to predict.Our inability to meet funding requirements due to deposit attrition or credit ratings could impact operations. Our primary source of funding is deposits, augmented by issuance of commercial paper and term debt. Adequate liquidity is critical to our ability to operate our businesses. Despite the apparent improvements in overall market liquidity and our liquidity position, future conditions that could negatively affect our liquidity include:•an inability to attract or retain deposits;•diminished access to capital markets;•an increased interest rate environment for our commercial paper or term debt;•unforeseen cash or capital requirements;•an inability to sell assets; and•an inability to obtain expected funding from HSBC subsidiaries and clients.These conditions could be caused by a number of factors, including internal and external factors, such as, among others:•financial and credit market disruption;•volatility or lack of market or customer confidence in financial markets;•lack of market or customer confidence in the Company or negative news about us or the financial services industry generally; and•other conditions and factors over which we have little or no control including economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad and concerns over potential government defaults and related policy initiatives, the potential failure of the U.S. to raise the debt limit and the ongoing European debt crisis.HSBC has provided capital support in the past and has indicated its commitment and capacity to fund the needs of the business in the future.26HSBC USA Inc.Our credit ratings are an important part of maintaining our liquidity. Any downgrade in credit ratings could potentially increase our borrowing costs, impact our ability to issue commercial paper and, depending on the severity of the downgrade, substantially limit our access to capital markets, require us to make cash payments or post collateral and permit termination by counterparties of certain significant contracts. Downgrades in our credit ratings also may trigger additional collateral or funding obligations which could negatively affect our liquidity, including as a result of credit-related contingent features in certain of our derivative contracts.Competition in the financial services industry may have a material adverse impact on our future results. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Competitive conditions are expected to continue to intensify as continued merger activity in the financial services industry produces larger, better-capitalized and more geographically diverse companies. New products, customers and channels of distribution are constantly emerging. Such competition may impact the terms, rates, costs and/or profits historically included in the financial products we offer and purchase. There is no assurance that the significant and increasing competition within the financial services industry will not materially adversely affect our future results.Our “cross-selling” efforts to increase the number of products our customers buy from us and offer them all of the financial products that fulfill their needs is a key part of our growth strategy, and our failure to execute this strategy effectively could have a material adverse effect on our revenue growth and financial results. Selling more products to our customers - “cross-selling” - is very important to our business model and key to our ability to grow revenue and earnings especially during the current environment of slow economic growth and regulatory reform initiatives. Many of our competitors also focus on cross-selling, especially in retail banking and mortgage lending. This can limit our ability to sell more products to our customers or influence us to sell our products at lower prices, reducing our net interest income and revenue from our fee-based products. It could also affect our ability to keep existing customers. New technologies could require us to spend more to modify or adapt our products to attract and retain customers. Our cross-sell strategy also is dependent on earning more business from our HSBC customers, and increasing our cross-sell ratio - or the average number of products sold to existing customers - may become more challenging and we might not attain our goal of selling an average of eight products to each customer.Unanticipated risks may impact our results. We seek to monitor and manage our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, market, operational, compliance, cybersecurity and legal reporting systems, including models and programs that predict loan delinquency and loss. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques and prepare contingency plans in anticipation of developments, those techniques and plans and the judgments that accompany their application are complex and cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Accordingly, our ability to successfully identify and manage significant risks and to respond to unanticipated developments in a timely and complete manner is an important factor that can significantly impact our results.Changes in interest rates could reduce the value of our mortgage servicing rights and result in a significant reduction in earnings. As a residential mortgage servicer in the U.S., we have a portfolio of mortgage servicing rights (“MSRs”). An MSR is the right to service a mortgage loan - collect principal, interest and escrow amounts - for a fee, which we retain when we sell loans we have originated. We recognize MSRs as a separate and distinct asset at the time loans are sold. We initially value MSRs at fair value at the time the related loans are sold and subsequently measure MSRs at fair value at each reporting date with changes in fair value reflected in earnings in the period that the changes occur. Fair value is the present value of estimated future net servicing income, calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. MSRs are subject to interest rate risk in that their fair value will fluctuate as a result of changes in the interest rate environment. When interest rates fall, borrowers are usually more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. As the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of our MSRs can decrease. Any decrease in the fair value of our MSRs will reduce earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs, which can result in earnings volatility. While interest rate risk is mitigated through an active hedging program, hedging instruments and models that we use may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged and, as a result, a reduction in the fair value of our MSRs could have a significant adverse impact on our earnings in a given period. Increased credit risk, including as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions, could require us to increase our provision for credit losses and allowance for credit losses and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. When we loan money or commit to loan money we incur credit risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans. The credit performance of our loan portfolios significantly affects our financial results and condition. As noted above, if the current economic environment were to deteriorate, more of our customers may have difficulty in repaying their loans or other obligations which could result in a higher level of credit losses and provision for credit losses. We reserve for credit losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio (including unfunded credit commitments). The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions, including falling home prices and higher 27HSBC USA Inc.unemployment, or other factors. For example, changes in borrower behavior or the regulatory environment also could influence recognition of credit losses in the portfolio and our allowance for credit losses.While we believe that our allowance for credit losses was appropriate at December 31, 2012, there is no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover future credit losses, especially if housing and employment conditions worsen. In the event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, we may be required to build reserves in future periods, which would reduce our earnings.Financial difficulties or credit downgrades of mortgage and bond insurers may negatively affect our servicing and investment portfolios. Our servicing portfolio includes certain mortgage loans that carry some level of insurance from one or more mortgage insurance companies. To the extent that any of these companies experience financial difficulties or credit downgrades, we may be required, as servicer of the insured loan on behalf of the investor, to obtain replacement coverage with another provider, possibly at a higher cost than the coverage we would replace. We may be responsible for some or all of the incremental cost of the new coverage for certain loans depending on the terms of our servicing agreement with the investor and other circumstances, although we do not have an additional risk of repurchase loss associated with claim amounts for loans sold to third-party investors. Similarly, some of the mortgage loans we hold for investment or for sale carry mortgage insurance. If a mortgage insurer is unable to meet its credit obligations with respect to an insured loan, we might incur higher credit losses if replacement coverage is not obtained. We also have investments in municipal bonds that are guaranteed against loss by bond insurers. The value of these bonds and the payment of principal and interest on them may be negatively affected by financial difficulties or credit downgrades experienced by the bond insurers.The financial condition of HSBC's clients and counterparties, including other financial institutions, could adversely affect us. A significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of our counterparties could lead to concerns in the market about the credit quality of other counterparties in the same industry, thereby exacerbating our credit risk exposure, and increasing the losses (including mark-to-market losses) that we could incur in our market-making and clearing businesses.Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of market-making, trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. HSBC routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by the counterparty or client. When such a client becomes bankrupt or insolvent, the Company may become entangled in significant disputes and litigation with the client's bankruptcy estate and other creditors or involved in regulatory investigations, all of which can increase our operational and litigation costs.During periods of market stress or illiquidity, our credit risk also may be further increased when it cannot realize the fair value of the collateral held by it or when collateral is liquidated at prices that are not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan, derivative or other exposure due to us. Further, disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral significantly increase in times of market stress and illiquidity. We may incur additional costs and expenses relating to mortgage loan repurchases and other mortgage loan securitization-related activities. In connection with our loan sale and securitization activities with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the “Government Sponsored Entities” or “GSEs”) and loan sale and private-label securitization transactions, HUSI has made representations and warranties that the loans sold meet certain requirements. For transactions with the GSEs, these representations include type of collateral, underwriting standards, validity of certain borrower representations in connection with the loan, that primary mortgage insurance is in force for any mortgage loan with a loan-to-value ratio (“LTV”) greater than 80 percent, and the use of the GSEs’ standard legal documentation. We may be, and have been, required to repurchase loans and/or indemnify the GSEs and other private investors for losses due to breaches of these representations and warranties.In estimating our repurchase liability arising from breaches of representations and warranties, we consider several factors, including the level of outstanding repurchase demands in inventory and our historical defense rate, the level of outstanding requests for loan files and the related historical repurchase request conversion rate and defense rate, and the level of potential future demands based on historical conversion rates of loans for which we have not received a loan file request but are two or more payments delinquent or expected to become delinquent at an estimated conversion rate. While we believe that our current repurchase liability reserves are adequate, the factors referred to above are dependent on economic factors, investor demand strategies, housing market trends and other circumstances, which are beyond our control and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that such reserves will not need to be increased in the future.We have also been involved as a sponsor/seller of loans used to facilitate whole loan securitizations underwritten by our affiliate, HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. (“HSI”), and serve as trustee of various securitization trusts. Participants in the U.S. mortgage securitization market that purchased and repackaged whole loans have been the subject of lawsuits and governmental and regulatory investigations and inquiries, which have been directed at groups within the U.S. mortgage market, such as servicers, originators, underwriters, trustees or sponsors of securitizations, and at particular participants within these groups. As the industry's residential foreclosure issues continue, HSBC Bank USA has taken title to an increasing number of foreclosed home as trustee on behalf of various securitization trusts, As nominal record owner of these properties, HSBC Bank USA has been sued by municipalities and 28HSBC USA Inc.tenants alleging various obligations of law, including laws regarding property upkeep and tenants' rights. While we believe and continue to maintain that the obligations at issue and any related liability are properly those of the servicer of each trust, we continue to receive significant and adverse publicity in connection with these and similar matters, including foreclosures that are serviced by others in the name of “HSBC, as trustee.” We expect this level of focus will continue and, potentially, intensify, so long as the U.S. real estate markets continue to be distressed. As a result, we may be subject to additional litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny related to our participation in the U.S. mortgage securitization market, either individually or as a member of a group.Lawsuits and regulatory investigations and proceedings may continue and increase in the current economic and regulatory environment. In the ordinary course of business, HSBC USA and its affiliates are routinely named as defendants in, or as parties to, various legal actions and proceedings relating to our current and/or former operations and are subject to governmental and regulatory examinations, information-gathering requests, investigations and formal and informal proceedings, as described in Note 30, “Litigation and Regulatory Matters,” certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions and other relief. There is no certainty that the litigation will decrease in the near future, especially in the event of continued high unemployment rates, a resurgent recession or additional regulatory and law enforcement investigations and proceedings by federal and state governmental agencies. Further, in the current environment of heightened regulatory scrutiny, particularly in the financial services industry, there may be additional regulatory investigations and reviews conducted by banking and other regulators, including the newly-formed CFPB, State Attorneys General or state regulatory and law enforcement agencies that, if determined adversely, may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results, including additional compliance requirements, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause serious reputational harm. See “Regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions and requirements relating to conduct of business and financial crime could negatively affect our results and brand” and “We may incur additional costs and expenses in ensuring that we satisfy requirements relating to our mortgage foreclosure processes and the industry-wide delay in processing foreclosures may have a significant impact upon loss severity” above.We establish reserves for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. We may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not established a reserve. In addition, the actual cost of resolving a legal claim may be substantially higher than any amounts reserved for that matter. The ultimate resolution of a pending legal proceeding, depending on the remedy sought and granted, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Management projections, estimates and judgments based on historical performance may not be indicative of our future performance. Our management is required to use certain estimates in preparing our financial statements, including accounting estimates to determine loan loss reserves, reserves related to litigation, deferred tax assets and the fair market value of certain assets and liabilities, including goodwill and intangibles, among other items. In particular, loan loss reserve estimates and certain asset and liability valuations are subject to management’s judgment and actual results are influenced by factors outside our control. To the extent historical averages of the progression of loans into stages of delinquency or the amount of loss realized upon charge-off are not predictive of future losses and management is unable to accurately evaluate the portfolio risk factors not fully reflected in historical models, unexpected additional losses could result. Similarly, to the extent assumptions employed in measuring fair value of assets and liabilities not supported by market prices or other observable parameters do not sufficiently capture their inherent risk, unexpected additional losses could result.We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets and record a charge to income or shareholders’ equity if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future taxable income based on management approved business plans, future capital requirements and ongoing tax planning strategies, including capital support from HSBC necessary as part of such plans and strategies. This evaluation process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period. The recognition of deferred tax assets requires management to make significant judgments about future earnings, the periods in which items will impact taxable income, future corporate tax rates, and the application of inherently complex tax laws. The use of different estimates can result in changes in the amounts of deferred tax items recognized, which can result in equity and earnings volatility because such changes are reported in current period earnings. See Note 19, “Income Taxes,” in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of our deferred tax assets.Changes in accounting standards are beyond our control and may have a material impact on how we report our financial results and condition. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”), the SEC and our bank regulators, including the Office of Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve Board, change the financial accounting and reporting standards, or the interpretation thereof, and guidance that govern the preparation and disclosure of external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and 29HSBC USA Inc.could materially impact how we report and disclose our financial results and condition, including our segment results. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. We may, in certain instances, change a business practice in order to comply with new or revised standards.Key employees may be difficult to retain due to contraction of the business and limits on promotional activities. Our employees are our most important resource and, in many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. If we were unable to continue to attract and retain qualified key employees to support the various functions of our businesses, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. Our recent financial performance, reductions in variable compensation and other benefits and the expectation of continued weakness in the general economy could raise concerns about key employees’ future compensation and opportunities for promotion. As economic conditions improve, we may face increased difficulty in retaining top performers and critical skilled employees. If key personnel were to leave us and equally knowledgeable or skilled personnel are unavailable within HSBC or could not be sourced in the market, our ability to manage our business, in particular through any continued or future difficult economic environment may be hindered or impaired.Significant reductions in pension assets may require additional financial contributions from us. Effective January 1, 2005, our previously separate qualified defined benefit pension plan was combined with that of HSBC Finance’s into a single HSBC North America qualified defined benefit plan. At December 31, 2010, the defined benefit plan was frozen, significantly reducing future benefit accruals. At December 31, 2012, plan assets were lower than projected plan liabilities resulting in an under-funded status. The accumulated benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of the plan assets by approximately $889 million. As these obligations relate to the HSBC North America pension plan, only a portion of this deficit could be considered our responsibility. We and other HSBC North America affiliates with employees participating in this plan will be required to make up this shortfall over a number of years as specified under the Pension Protection Act. This can be accomplished through direct contributions, appreciation in plan assets and/or increases in interest rates resulting in lower liability valuations. See Note 23, “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits,” in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information concerning the HSBC North America defined benefit plan.The inability to integrate business and portfolio acquisitions successfully could undermine the realization of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition and have a material adverse impact on our results of operation. We have in the past, and may again in the future, seek to grow our business by acquiring other businesses or loan portfolios. There can be no assurance that acquisitions will have the anticipated positive results, including results relating to:•the total cost of integration;•the time and focus of management required to complete the integration;•the amount of longer-term cost savings; or•the overall performance of the combined entity.Integration of an acquired business can be complex and costly, and may sometimes include combining relevant accounting, data processing and other record keeping systems and management controls, as well as managing relevant relationships with clients, suppliers and other business partners, as well as with employees.There is no assurance that any businesses or portfolios acquired in the future will be successfully integrated and will result in all of the positive benefits anticipated. If we are not able to successfully integrate acquisitions, there is the risk that our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.30HSBC USA Inc.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff that have been outstanding for more than 180 days at December 31, 2012.