Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and operating results are subject to a number of risk factors, both those that are known to us and identified below and others that may arise from time to time. These risk factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those suggested by forward-looking statements in this report and elsewhere, and may adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. If any of those risk factors should occur, moreover, the trading price of our securities could decline, and investors in our securities could lose all or part of their investment in our securities. These risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our prospects. WE HAVE A LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY THAT MAKES IT DIFFICULT TO EVALUATE OUR BUSINESS AND TO PREDICT OUR FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS. We were known as W3 Group, Inc. and had no operations in December 2005, at which time we engaged in a reverse acquisition; therefore, we have limited historical operations. Two of our subsidiaries, MAM Software and AFS Tire Management, Inc. (f/k/a CarParts Technologies, Inc.) have operated since 1984 and 1997, respectively, as independent companies under different management until our former parent, ADNW, acquired MAM Software in April 2003 and CarParts Technologies, Inc. in August 2004. Since the reverse merger in December 2005, we have been primarily engaged in organizational activities, including developing a strategic operating plan and developing, marketing and selling our products. In particular, we had integrated a third subsidiary as a result of the acquisition of EXP from ADNW in August 2006, its MMI Automotive subsidiary. In February 2007, we acquired DSS from ADNW, which owned a minority interest of DCS Automotive Limited. On November 12, 2007, we sold EXP and DSS, which was EXP’s wholly owned subsidiary. As a result of our limited operating history, it will be difficult to evaluate our business and predict our future operating results. 16 WE MAY FAIL TO ADDRESS RISKS WE FACE AS A DEVELOPING BUSINESS WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF OUR BUSINESS PLAN. We are prone to all of the risks inherent in the establishment of any new business venture. You should consider the likelihood of our future success to be highly speculative in light of our limited operating history, as well as the limited resources, problems, expenses, risks and complications frequently encountered by entities at our current stage of development. To address these risks, we must, among other things, · implement and successfully execute our business and marketing strategy; · continue to develop new products and upgrade our existing products; · respond to industry and competitive developments; · attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel; and · obtain equity and debt financing on satisfactory terms and in timely fashion in amounts adequate to implement our business plan and meet our obligations. We may not be successful in addressing these risks. If we are unable to do so, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. WE MAY FAIL TO SUCCESSFULLY DEVELOP, MARKET AND SELL OUR PRODUCTS. To achieve profitable operations, we, along with our subsidiaries, must continue successfully to improve, market and sell existing products and develop, market and sell new products. Our product development efforts may not be successful. The development of new software products is highly uncertain and subject to a number of significant risks. The development cycle - from inception to installing the software for customers - can be lengthy and uncertain. The ability to market the product is unpredictable and may cause delays. Potential products may appear promising at early stages of development, and yet may not reach the market for a number of reasons. 17 ADDITIONAL ISSUANCES OF SECURITIES WILL DILUTE YOUR STOCK OWNERSHIP AND COULD AFFECT OUR STOCK PRICE. As of August 31, 2010, there were 85,860,185 shares of our Common Stock issued and outstanding and 1,792,662 Series A Preferred Shares issued and outstanding. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of an aggregate of 150,000,000 shares of Common Stock and 10,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, on such terms and at such prices as our Board of Directors may determine. These shares are intended to provide us with the necessary flexibility to undertake and complete plans to raise funds if and when needed. In addition, we may pursue acquisitions that could include issuing equity, although we have no current arrangements to do so. Any such issuances of securities would have a dilutive effect on current ownership of MAM stock. The market price of our Common Stock could fall in esponse to the sale or issuance of a large number of shares, or the perception that sales of a large number of shares could occur. WE MAY ENCOUNTER SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL AND OPERATING RISKS IF WE GROW OUR BUSINESS THROUGH ACQUISITIONS. As part of our growth strategy, we may seek to acquire or invest in complementary or competitive businesses, products or technologies. The process of integrating acquired assets into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business. We may allocate a significant portion of our available working capital to finance all or a portion of the purchase price relating to possible acquisitions although we have no immediate plans to do so. Any future acquisition or investment opportunity may require us to obtain additional financing to complete the transaction. The anticipated benefits of any acquisitions may not be realized. In addition, future acquisitions by us could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial position. Acquisitions also involve other risks, including entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience. AN INCREASE IN COMPETITION FROM OTHER SOFTWARE MANUFACTURERS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR ABILITY TO GENERATE REVENUE AND CASH FLOW. Competition in our industry is intense. Potential competitors in the U.S. and Europe are numerous. Most competitors have substantially greater capital resources, marketing experience, research and development staffs and facilities than we have. Our competitors may be able to develop products before us or develop more effective products or market them more effectively which would limit our ability to generate revenue and cash flow. 18 THE PRICES WE CHARGE FOR OUR PRODUCTS MAY DECREASE AS A RESULT OF COMPETITION AND OUR REVENUES COULD DECREASE AS A RESULT. We face potential competition from very large software companies, including Microsoft Corporation, Oracle Corporation and SAP AG which supply ERP and SCM products to our target market of small- to medium-sized businesses servicing the automotive aftermarket. To date we have directly competed with one of these larger software and service companies. There can be no assurance that these companies will not develop or acquire a competitive product or service in the future. Our business would be dramatically affected by price pressure if these larger software companies attempted to gain market share through the use of highly discounted sales and extensive marketing campaigns. IF WE FAIL TO KEEP UP WITH RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE, OUR TECHNOLOGIES AND PRODUCTS COULD BECOME LESS COMPETITIVE OR OBSOLETE. The software industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological change. We expect that the software needs associated with the automotive technology will continue to develop rapidly, and our future success will depend on our ability to develop and maintain a competitive position through technological development. WE DEPEND ON PATENT AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS TO DEVELOP AND PROTECT OUR TECHNOLOGIES AND PRODUCTS, WHICH RIGHTS MAY NOT OFFER US SUFFICIENT PROTECTION. The software industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain and enforce protection for products that we develop under US and foreign patent laws and other intellectual property laws, preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Currently, only one of our products is patented. We also rely upon trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our technology. We may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets which could limit our ability to exclusively produce products. We require our employees, consultants, and parties to collaborative agreements to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment or consulting relationships or collaboration with us. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets or adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential and proprietary information. 19 IF WE BECOME SUBJECT TO ADVERSE CLAIMS ALLEGING INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD-PARTY PROPRIETARY RIGHTS, WE MAY INCUR UNANTICIPATED COSTS AND OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION MAY SUFFER. We are subject to the risk that we are infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. Although we are not aware of any infringement by our technology on the proprietary rights of others and are not currently subject to any legal proceedings involving claimed infringements, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to such third-party claims, litigation or indemnity demands and that these claims will not be successful. If a claim or indemnity demand were to be brought against us, it could result in costly litigation or product shipment delays or force us to stop selling such product or providing such services or to enter into royalty or license agreements. OUR SOFTWARE AND INFORMATION SERVICES COULD CONTAIN DESIGN DEFECTS OR ERRORS WHICH COULD AFFECT OUR REPUTATION, RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT COSTS TO US AND IMPAIR OUR ABILITY TO SELL OUR PRODUCTS. Our software and information services are highly complex and sophisticated and could, from time to time, contain design defects or errors. We cannot assure you that these defects or errors will not delay the release or shipment of our products or, if the defect or error is discovered only after customers have received the products, that these defects or errors will not result in increased costs, litigation, customer attrition, reduced market acceptance of our systems and services or damage to our reputation. IF WE LOSE KEY MANAGEMENT OR OTHER PERSONNEL OUR BUSINESS WILL SUFFER. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management staff. We also rely on consultants and advisors to assist us in formulating our development strategy. Our success also depends upon retaining key management and technical personnel, as well as our ability to continue to attract and retain additional highly qualified personnel. We may not be successful in retaining our current personnel or hiring and retaining qualified personnel in the future. If we lose the services of any of our management staff or key technical personnel, or if we fail to continue to attract qualified personnel, our ability to acquire, develop or sell products would be adversely affected. 20 IT MAY BE DIFFICULT FOR SHAREHOLDERS TO RECOVER AGAINST THOSE OF OUR DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS THAT ARE NOT RESIDENTS OF THE U.S. Two of our directors, of whom one are also executive officers, are residents of the UK. In addition, our significant operating subsidiary, MAM Software is located in the UK. Were one or more shareholders to bring an action against us in the US and succeed, either through default or on the merits, and obtain a financial award against an officer or director of the Company, that shareholder may be required to enforce and collect on his or her judgment in the UK, unless the officer or director owned assets which were located in the US. Further, shareholder efforts to bring an action in the UK against its citizens for any alleged breach of a duty in a foreign jurisdiction may be difficult, as prosecution of a claim in a foreign jurisdiction, and in particular a foreign nation, is fraught with difficulty and may be effectively, if not financially, unfeasible. OUR MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL SYSTEMS MIGHT BE INADEQUATE TO HANDLE OUR POTENTIAL GROWTH. Our success will depend in significant part on the expansion of our operations and the effective management of growth. This growth will place a significant strain on our management and information systems and resources and operational and financial systems and resources. To manage future growth, our management must continue to improve our operational and financial systems and expand, train, retain and manage our employee base. Our management may not be able to manage our growth effectively. If our systems, procedures, controls, and resources are inadequate to support our operations, our expansion would be halted and we could lose our opportunity to gain significant market share. Any inability to manage growth effectively may harm our ability to institute our business plan. 21 THE MARKET FOR OUR COMMON STOCK IS LIMITED AND YOU MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SELL YOUR COMMON STOCK. Our Common Stock is currently quoted on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board, and is not traded on a national securities exchange. The market for purchases and sales of the Company’s Common Stock is limited and therefore the sale of a relatively small number of shares could cause the price to fall sharply. Accordingly, it may be difficult to sell shares quickly without significantly depressing the value of the stock. Unless we are successful in developing continued investor interest in our stock, sales of our stock could continue to result in major fluctuations in the price of the stock. THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK IS LIKELY TO BE VOLATILE AND SUBJECT TO WIDE FLUCTUATIONS. The market price of the securities of software companies has been especially volatile. Thus, the market price of our Common Stock is likely to be subject to wide fluctuations. If our revenues do not grow or grow more slowly than we anticipate, or, if operating or capital expenditures exceed our expectations and cannot be adjusted accordingly, or if some other event adversely affects us, the market price of our Common Stock could decline. If the stock market in general experiences a loss in investor confidence or otherwise fails, the market price of our Common Stock could fall for reasons unrelated to our business, results of operations and financial condition. The market price of our stock also might decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. SINCE OUR STOCK IS CLASSIFIED AS A “PENNY STOCK,” THE RESTRICTIONS OF THE SEC’S PENNY STOCK REGULATIONS MAY RESULT IN LESS LIQUIDITY FOR OUR STOCK. The US Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) has adopted regulations which define a “Penny Stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as therein defined) of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transactions involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock by a retail customer, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about commissions payable to both the broker/dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Because the market price for our shares of common stock is less than $5.00, our securities are classified as penny stock. As a result of the penny stock restrictions, brokers or potential investors may be reluctant to trade in our securities, which may result in less liquidity for our stock. 22 WE HAVE INSURANCE COVERAGE FOR THE SERVICES WE OFFER. HOWEVER, A CLAIM FOR DAMAGES MAY BE MADE AGAINST US REGARDLESS OF OUR RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE FAILURE, WHICH COULD EXPOSE US TO LIABILITY. We provide business management solutions that we believe are critical to the operations of our customers’ businesses and provide benefits that may be difficult to quantify. Any failure of a customer’s system installed or of the services offered by us could result in a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for the failure. Although we attempt to limit our contractual liability for damages resulting from negligent acts, errors, mistakes or omissions in rendering our services, we cannot assure you that the limitations on liability we include in our agreements will be enforceable in all cases, or that those limitations on liability will otherwise protect us from liability for damages. In the event that the terms and conditions of our contracts which limit our liability are not sufficient, we have insurance coverage. This coverage of approximately $5,000,000 in the aggregate in the UK and in the US insures the business for negligent acts, error or omission, failure of the technology services to perform as intended, and breach of warranties or representations. It also insures the services that we supply including, web services, consulting, analysis, design, installation, training, support, system integration, the manufacture, sale, licensing, distribution or marketing of software, the design and development of code, software and programming and the provision of software applications as a service, rental or lease. However, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate or that coverage will remain available at acceptable costs. Successful claims brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage could seriously harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Even if not successful, large claims against us could result in significant legal and other costs and may be a distraction to our senior management. 23 BECAUSE WE HAVE INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS, WE WILL BE SUBJECT TO RISKS OF CONDUCTING BUSINESS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES. International operations constitute a significant part of our business, and we are subject to the risks of conducting business in foreign countries, including: • difficulty in establishing or managing distribution relationships; • different standards for the development, use, packaging and marketing of our products and technologies; • our ability to locate qualified local employees, partners, distributors and suppliers; • the potential burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws and trade standards; and • general geopolitical risks, such as political and economic instability, changes in diplomatic and trade relations, and foreign currency risks and fluctuations. No assurance can be given that we will be able to positively manage the risks inherent in the conduct of our international operations or that such operations will not have a negative impact on our overall financial operations. WE WERE NOT IN COMPLIANCE WITH CERTAIN COVENANTS UNDER OUR SENIOR SECURED NOTE. WE HAVE RECEIVED WAIVERS ON THREE OCCASIONS OF THESE EVENTS OF DEFAULT FROM THE HOLDER OF THE NOTE. During the fiscal periods ended March 31, 2008, June 30, 2008 and December 31, 2008, we violated certain covenants related to cash flow ratios under our senior secured note with ComVest Capital LLC, dated December 21, 2007. ComVest has provided us a waiver of these events of default on each occasion. As of March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009, we were in compliance with the amended loan covenants. As of March 31, 2010, we failed to meet the Earnings Before Interest Depreciation and Amortization (“EBIDA”) Ratio Covenant of 1.25:1 as required under our senior secured note with ComVest Capital LLC, dated December 21, 2007, as amended, which failure constitutes an event of default. The terms of the note provide that, if any event of default occurs, the full principal amount of the note, together with interest and other amounts owing in respect thereof to the date of acceleration, shall become, at ComVest’s election, immediately due and payable in cash. On June 2, 2010 ComVest charged us a fee of $25,000 and on June 17, 2010 increased the interest rate on the Term Loan from 11% to 16% and increased the interest rate on the Revolving Credit Facility from 9.5% to 13.5%. The Company has entered into a forbearance agreement to resolve the default with ComVest. 24 WE WILL NEED ADDITIONAL FINANCING OF $3,917,000 TO MAKE THE $2,917,000 BALLOON PAYMENT DUE IN NOVEMBER 2010 ON OUR TERM LOAN AND $1,000,000 DUE ON THE REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN, WHICH ADDITIONAL FINANCING MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE ON A TIMELY BASIS, OR AT ALL. We prepared our consolidated financial statements as of June 30, 2010 on a going-concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. The Company had an accumulated deficit of $23.4 million and a working capital deficit of $6.7 million at June 30, 2010. These factors, along with the $4,125,000 payments due in November 2010 on our loans, raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern unless we are able to secure additional funds. We may be required to pursue sources of additional capital to fund our operations through various means, which may consist of equity or debt financing, including a rights offering. Future financings through equity investments are likely to be dilutive to existing stockholders. Also, the terms of securities we may issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable for our new investors. Newly issued securities may include preferences, superior voting rights and the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, which may have additional dilutive effects. Further, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital and/or financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which will adversely impact our financial results. As a result, there can be no assurance that additional funds will be available when needed from any source or, if available, will be available on terms that are acceptable to us. If we are unable to raise funds to satisfy our capital needs on a timely basis, we may be required to cease operations. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE OBTAIN ADDITIONAL FUNDING IF NEEDED. Our current operations will not generate sufficient cash flows to maintain our current operations for the next 12 months and repay our ComVest obligations. We are currently seeking additional funds through debt or equity financings. Such financings may not be forthcoming. As has been widely reported, global and domestic financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile due to a variety of factors, including the current weak economic conditions. As a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets has diminished significantly, even more so for smaller companies like ours. If such conditions and constraints continue, we may not be able to acquire additional funds either through credit markets or through equity markets and, even if additional financing is available, it may not be available on terms we find favorable. At this time, there are no anticipated sources of additional funding in place. Failure to secured additional funding when needed could have an adverse effect on our ability to grow. 25 WE DO NOT INTEND TO DECLARE DIVIDENDS ON OUR COMMON STOCK. We will not distribute dividends to our stockholders until and unless we can develop sufficient funds from operations to meet our ongoing needs and implement our business plan. The time frame for that is inherently unpredictable, and you should not plan on it occurring in the near future, if at all. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 