Item 1a. Risk Factors For an enterprise as large and complex as ours, a wide range of factors could materially affect future developments and performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations, identified elsewhere in this report, the most significant factors affecting our operations include the following: Changes in economic conditions in the United States, the regional economies in which we operate or in specific economic sectors could adversely affect the profitability of our businesses. Approximately 80% of our revenues in 2006 were derived from marketing and advertising spending by businesses operating in the United States. Advertising and marketing spending is sensitive to economic conditions, and tends to decline in recessionary periods. A decline in economic conditions could reduce advertising prices and volume, resulting in a decrease in our advertising revenues. A decline in economic conditions could also impact consumer discretionary spending. Such a reduction in consumer spending may impact the volume of online shopping, which could adversely affect our comparison shopping business. Advertising and marketing spending by our customers is subject to seasonal and cyclical variations. Due to increased demand in the spring and holiday seasons, the second and fourth quarters normally have higher advertising revenues than our first and third quarters. Referral fee revenues are highest in the fourth quarter due in part to increased online shopping during the holiday season. In addition, advertising revenues in even-numbered years benefit from political advertising. If a short-term negative impact on our business was to occur during a time of high seasonal demand, there could be a disproportionate effect on the operating results of that business for the year. We face significant competition for advertising and marketing revenues. All of our marketing service businesses are subject to competition for advertising and marketing revenues. We compete for advertising revenues with other local and national media, including television networks, television stations, radio stations, newspapers, Internet sites and direct mail. Advertising is sold on the basis of audience size and demographics, price and effectiveness. Audience size and demographics are generally related to our success in creating news and entertainment content whose success depends substantially on consumer tastes and preferences that change in often unpredictable ways. The success of our businesses depends on our ability to consistently create content and programming that meets these changing preferences. If our product offerings do not achieve sufficient consumer acceptance, our audience share may be adversely affected. Declines in such audience shares could result in a reduction in advertising revenue. Our interactive media businesses compete for marketing services revenues with other comparison shopping services, general search engines, and other providers of information on shopping and essential home services. Our ability to maintain our relationship with participating retailers and service providers is largely dependent on our ability to provide them a cost effective means of attracting business. In order to maintain the confidence of participating retailers, our online comparison shopping services must monitor and detect “click fraud” by persons seeking to increase the fees paid by participating retailers rather than to view the merchandise. If we are unable to detect and stop it, click fraud could damage our brand and could result in the return of referral fees to participating retailers. 13 Table of Contents Our traditional media businesses face substantial competition for advertising revenues with non-traditional digital media. Competition for advertising revenue is increasingly intense with digital media platforms. The popularity of the Internet and low barriers to entry have led to a wide variety of alternatives available to advertisers and consumers. As media audiences fragment, advertisers are increasing the portion of their advertising budgets allocated to non-traditional media, such as Internet sites and search engines. Internet sites and search engines can offer more measurable returns than traditional media advertising through pay-for-performance and keyword-targeted advertising. We also compete with companies that sell products and services online because these companies are trying to attract users to their Internet sites directly to search for information about their products and services. In recent years, Internet sites dedicated to help-wanted, real estate and automotive have become significant competitors for classified advertising. Entities with a large Internet presence are entering the classified market, heightening the risk of continued erosion. Although the amount of advertising on our Internet sites has been increasing, we may experience a decline in advertising revenues if we are unable to attract advertising to our Internet sites in sufficient volume or at rates comparable to that of our traditional media businesses. Decreases, or slow growth, in circulation adversely affects our circulation revenues and also our advertising revenues. In recent years the newspaper industry has had difficulty increasing circulation volume and revenues. Since 2001 the daily and Sunday circulation of our newspapers has declined approximately 5%. The declines are due, in part, to competition from other forms of media, particularly the Internet. Regular newspaper buying has declined, particularly among young people who increasingly rely on the Internet and other non-traditional media for news. The increased use of such non-traditional media, which is often available at no cost, challenges the traditional media model, in which quality journalism and content is primarily supported by advertising revenues. A prolonged decline in circulation copies could have an effect on the rate and volume of advertising, which are dependent on the size and demographics of the audience we provide to our advertisers. To maintain our circulation base, we may incur additional costs. We may not be able to recover these costs through increased circulation and advertising revenues. Television viewing audiences have fragmented, and further fragmentation could adversely affect our advertising revenues. The expanded availability of digital cable television and the introduction of direct-to-home satellite distribution have greatly increased the options available to the viewing public. In addition, technological advancements in the video, telecommunications and data services industry are occurring rapidly. Advances in technologies such as personal video recorders, video-on-demand and streaming video on broadband Internet connections enable viewers to time-shift programming or to skip commercial messages. These changes have subjected Scripps Networks and our broadcast television stations to increased competition and to new types of competition for both viewers and advertising revenues. Continued fragmentation of the television audience and technological developments could affect the viewership levels of our television businesses. Reductions in viewership levels could result in decreases in advertising revenues. Our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and consumer tastes on a timely basis and exploit new sources of revenue from these changes is critical to our ability to increase our advertising revenues and remain competitive. We purchase keyword advertising on general search engines to attract consumers to our interactive media Web sites. We attract traffic to our interactive media Web sites through search results displayed by Google, Yahoo! and other popular general search engines. Search engines typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic listings and sponsored listings. We rely on both algorithmic and sponsored listings to attract consumers to our comparison shopping Internet site. Algorithmic listings cannot be purchased, and instead are determined and displayed solely by a set of formulas designed by the search engine. Search engines revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize their search result listings. Modification of such algorithms may result in fewer consumers clicking through to our Internet site. We also rely on purchased listings to attract consumers to our Web sites. Many general search engines also operate Internet shopping services. Modification or termination of our contractual relationships with general search engines to purchase keyword advertising could result in fewer consumers clicking through to our Internet site. We may incur additional expenses to replace this traffic. Approximately 30% to 40% of our referral fee revenues in 2006 were with a general search engine and a change in this relationship could harm our business. In August 2002, we entered into the first of three agreements with a general search engine to participate in its sponsored links program. Under each of these agreements, pursuant to a contractual agreement that expires in October 2008, we display listings from the search engine’s advertisers as a part of our service. We receive a share of the revenues earned by the search engine when consumers visit the advertisers’ Web sites. Our revenues could be affected if this agreement was not renewed upon expiration or if the agreement was not renewed on similar terms. Our interactive media businesses are subject to online security risks, including security breaches and identity theft. Our interactive media businesses transmit confidential information over public networks. A significant number of participating retailers authorize us to bill their credit cards directly for referrals provided to the retailer. Consumers switching essential home services provide sensitive personal data when completing contracts with the service providers. We rely upon encryptions and authentication technology provided by third parties to secure transmission of such confidential information. 14 Table of Contents Our Web site infrastructure is vulnerable to computer viruses and similar disruptions, and we may be subject to “denial-of-service” attacks that might make our Web sites unavailable for periods of time. Scripps Networks is dependent upon the maintenance of distribution agreements with cable and satellite distributors on acceptable terms. We enter into long-term contracts for the distribution of our networks on cable and satellite television systems. Our long-term distribution arrangements enable us to reach a large percentage of cable and direct broadcast satellite households across the United States. As these contracts expire, we must renew or renegotiate them. If we are unable to renew them on acceptable terms, we may lose distribution rights. The loss of a significant number of affiliation arrangements on basic programming tiers could reduce the distribution of our national television networks, thereby adversely affecting affiliate fee revenue, our ability to sell advertising or the rates we charge for such advertising. Our networks that are carried on digital tiers are dependent upon the continued upgrade of cable systems to digital capability and the public’s continuing acceptance of, and willingness to pay for upgrades to digital cable as well as our ability to negotiate favorable carriage agreements on widely accepted digital tiers. Consolidation among cable television system operators has given the largest cable and satellite television systems considerable leverage in their relationship with programmers. In 1996, the two largest cable television system operators provided service to approximately 22% of households receiving cable or satellite television service. They provide service to approximately 44% of these households today, with the two largest satellite television operators providing service to an additional 30% of such households. Continued consolidation within the industry could reduce the number of distributors available to carry our programming, subject our affiliate fee revenue to greater volume discounts, and further increase the negotiating leverage of the cable and satellite television system operators. The loss of affiliation agreements could adversely affect our broadcast television stations’ results of operations. Our broadcast television station business owns and operates ten television stations. Six of the stations are affiliated with ABC and three are affiliated with NBC. These television networks produce and distribute programming in exchange for each of our stations’ commitment to air the programming at specified times and for commercial announcement time during the programming. The non-renewal or termination of any of our network affiliation agreements would prevent us from being able to carry programming of the relevant network. This loss of programming would require us to obtain replacement programming, which may involve higher costs and which may not be as attractive to our target audiences, resulting in reduced revenues. We continue to develop new products and services for evolving markets. There can be no assurance of the success of these efforts due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. There are substantial uncertainties associated with our efforts to develop new products and services for evolving markets, and substantial investments may be required. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new products or services may not be achieved, and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as the development of competitive alternatives, rapid technological change, regulatory changes and shifting market preferences, may cause new markets to move in unanticipated directions. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in integrating businesses we may acquire with our existing businesses. We may grow through acquisitions in certain markets, and we may also consider the acquisition of businesses that fall outside our traditional lines of business. For example, in recent years we have acquired GAC, but have also acquired Shopzilla and uSwitch which are outside our traditional lines of business. Acquisitions involve risks, including difficulties in integrating acquired operations, diversions of management resources, debt incurred in financing such acquisitions and other unanticipated problems and liabilities. In addition, while we intend to implement appropriate controls and procedures as we integrate acquired companies, we may not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of these companies’ disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting (as required by recent amendments to U.S. federal securities laws and regulations) until we have fully integrated those acquired businesses. The failure to manage growth of our interactive media segment could harm our business. We are expanding the number of employees, facilities and infrastructure of our interactive media businesses in the United States and internationally. We expect that further investment will be required as we continue to expand into new product lines and geographic areas. We must add new hardware and update software to accommodate the increased traffic to our Web sites. Failure to upgrade our technology, security infrastructure or network infrastructure to support the increased transaction volume could result in unanticipated system disruptions, slow response times or poor consumer experiences. There are risks associated with the international operations of our interactive media businesses, which we plan to continue to expand. We acquired uSwitch in March 2006 and during 2006 have invested in the expansion of Shopzilla into the European market. We plan to expand the uSwitch brand into the United States and Europe. We have only limited experience in many of the countries in which we expect to expand our interactive media businesses. Expansion into international markets requires management attention and resources and requires us to tailor our comparison shopping services to local cultures, regulations and standards. Risks of doing business internationally also include compliance with differing regulatory requirements, which may include regulation of Internet services, banking, taxation and money transfer. 15 Table of Contents Because our international operations conduct business in the currency of their home country and we report our financial results in U.S. dollars, our operating results are impacted by changes in currency exchange rates. If the U.S. dollar weakens, translation of foreign-currency denominated transactions will result in increases in operating revenues, operating expenses and net income. Operating revenues, operating expenses and net income would decrease if the U.S. dollar strengthens against such foreign currencies. Macro economic factors may impede access to or increase the cost of financing our operations and investments. Changes in U.S. and global financial and equity markets, including market disruptions and significant interest rate fluctuations, may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or increase the cost of obtaining financing. In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies which are based, in significant part, on our performance as measured by credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. A decrease in these ratings could increase our cost of borrowing or make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. Sustained increases in costs of pension and employee health and welfare benefits may reduce our profitability. Employee compensation and benefits account for approximately 39% of our total operating expenses. Our profitability is substantially affected by costs of pension benefits and other employee benefits. In recent years, we have experienced significant increases in these costs as a result of macro economic factors beyond our control, including increases in health care costs, declines in investment returns on plan assets and changes in discount rates used to calculate pension and related liabilities. At least some of these macro economic factors may continue to put upward pressure on the cost of providing pension and medical benefits. Although we have actively sought to control increases in these costs, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting cost increases, and continued upward pressure could reduce the profitability of our businesses. We may not be able to protect intellectual property rights upon which our business relies, and if we lose intellectual property protection, we may lose valuable assets. Our business depends on our intellectual property, including internally developed technology and data resources and brand identification and journalistic reputation. We attempt to protect these intellectual property rights through a combination of copyright, trade secret, patent and trademark law and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements. We also depend on our trade names and domain names. We file applications for patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property registrations where we deem it appropriate to our business, but such applications may not result in the issuance of patents, registered trademarks, service marks or other intellectual property registrations. In addition, even if such registrations are issued, they may not fully protect all important aspects of our business and there is no guarantee that our business does not or will not infringe upon intellectual property rights of others. Furthermore, intellectual property laws vary from country to country, and it may be more difficult to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights in some foreign jurisdictions. In the future, we may need to litigate in the United States or elsewhere to enforce our intellectual property rights or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation could potentially be expensive and possibly divert the attention of our management. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our service, technology and other intellectual property, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent any misappropriation or confusion among consumers and merchants, or unauthorized use of these rights. If we are unable to procure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, then we may not realize the full value of these assets, and our business may suffer. Our Common Voting shares are principally held by The Edward W Scripps Trust, and this control could create conflicts of interest or inhibit potential changes of control. We have two classes of stock: Common Voting shares and Class A Common shares. Holders of Class A Common shares are entitled to elect one-third of the Board of Directors, but are not permitted to vote on any other matters except as required by Ohio law. Holders of Common Voting shares are entitled to elect the remainder of the Board and to vote on all other matters. Our Common Voting shares are principally held by The Edward W Scripps Trust, which holds 88% of the Common Voting shares. As a result, the trust has the ability to elect two-thirds of the Board of Directors and to direct the outcome of any matter that does not require a vote of the Class A Common shares. Because this concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our businesses, the market price of our Class A Common shares could be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2006 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 