Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion provides a description of some of the important risk factors that could affect our actual results and could cause our results to vary materially from those expressed in public statements or documents. However, other factors besides those discussed below or elsewhere in other of our reports filed or furnished with the SEC, could affect our business or results. The reader should not consider any description of such factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that we may face. The unprecedented current market and economic conditions may continue to affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business and earnings are affected by general business, economic and market conditions in the United States and abroad. Given our concentration of business activities in the United States, we are particularly exposed to the continued turmoil in the economy, housing downturns, high unemployment, tighter credit conditions and reduced economic growth that have occurred over the past two years and appear likely to continue in 2010. General business, economic and market conditions that could continue to affect us include: • short-term and long-term interest rates; • a continuing recessionary economy; • unemployment levels; • inflation; • monetary supply; • availability of liquidity; • fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets in which we fund our operations; 14 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. • market value of residential and commercial real estate throughout the United States; • tighter consumer credit conditions; • higher bankruptcy filings; and • new laws, regulations or regulatory initiatives. During 2009, economic conditions in the U.S. continued to be challenged by continued declines in the housing market, rising unemployment, tight credit conditions and reduced economic growth. The problems in the housing markets in the United States in the last three years have been exacerbated by the significantly higher unemployment rates. Unemployment rates have been rising in most markets. If unemployment rates continue to increase, additional losses are likely to be significant in all types of our consumer loans, including credit cards. Additionally, with a continued loss in consumer confidence and high unemployment rates, we expect consumer loan originations, including credit card and private label credit card originations, to continue to decrease. The dramatic decline in property values experienced throughout much of the United States continued through 2009, although housing prices experienced some stabilization in the second half of 2009. While we believe that the slowdown in the housing markets has started to stabilize, there is continuing concern that foreclosures may increase in 2010, which could result in further deterioration of property values and can be expected to result in increased delinquency and losses in our real estate portfolio. In addition, certain changes to the conditions described above could diminish demand for our products and services, or increase the cost to provide such products or services. The overall deterioration in the economy in 2009 and the continued weak outlook for certain segments of the economy, such as commercial real estate and certain industrial sectors, have led to customer credit downgrades and higher levels of criticized loans across all commercial business lines. There is considerable uncertainty regarding the future recovery rate of the economy in general, particularly in these sectors, the pace of which will impact future trends in criticized asset levels. While we continue to actively manage our commercial portfolios, considerable uncertainty remains regarding the timing and pace of economic recovery in these segments and the associated impact on the commercial portfolios. In a poor economic environment, such as is currently being experienced in the United States, more of our customers and counterparties are likely to, and have in fact, become delinquent or have defaulted on their loans or other obligations. This has resulted in higher levels of provisions for credit losses in our consumer portfolios as well as our commercial portfolio, which adversely affected our earnings. In the event economic conditions continue to be depressed and unemployment rates increase or do not decline, there would be a significant negative impact on delinquencies, charge-offs and losses in all loan portfolios. The transition to Basel II in 2011 will continue to put significant pressure on earnings and capital. Subject to regulatory approval, HSBC North America will be required to adopt Basel II provisions no later than April 1, 2011. While HSBC USA will not report Basel II regulatory capital ratios on a standalone basis, HSBC Bank USA will report under the new rules. Whether any increase in capital will be required prior to the Basel II adoption date will depend on our prevailing risk profile. If current market conditions deteriorate further, the capital requirements of Basel II could grow prior to implementation in 2011, increasing HSBC Bank USA’s capital requirements. The new rules could drive changes in our funding mix, reducing our return on capital and resulting in lower net income and/or continued shrinking of the balance sheet. HSBC has demonstrated its support of HUSI through significant capital contributions. Our parent contributed $4 million, $3.6 billion and $2.2 billion in 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. Capital infusions from HSBC were crucial to our operations in 2008 and the first half of 2009, and could be crucial to our operations in the future if economic conditions worsen. HSBC has provided capital support in the past and has indicated its commitment and capacity to fund the needs of the business in the future. In the absence of HSBC support, our credit ratings would be downgraded and our cost of funding our operations would rise substantially, negatively impacting net interest income and net income or loss. Newly-implemented Federal and state laws and regulations may significantly impact our operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment. Changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting banking, consumer credit, bankruptcy, privacy, consumer protection or other matters could materially impact our 15 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. performance. For example, anti-money laundering requirements under the Patriot Act are frequently revisited by the U.S. Congress and Executive Agencies and continue to be a key regulator focus. There has also been an increased focus on compliance with economic sanctions following the publication in September 2008 of Economic Enforcement Guidelines by the Office of Foreign Assets Control which were promulgated as a final rule in November 2009. Ensuring compliance with increasing regulatory requirements and initiatives could affect operational costs and negatively impact our overall results. Similarly, attempts by local, state and national regulatory agencies to address perceived problems with the mortgage lending and credit card industries more recently to address problems in the financial services industry generally through broad or targeted legislative or regulatory initiatives aimed at lenders’ operations in consumer lending markets, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of consumer loan products we can offer, how those loan products may be originated, and the fees and charges that may be applied to accounts, which, ultimately, could negatively impact our results. There is also significant focus on loss mitigation and foreclosure activity for residential real estate loans. Although we believe our loan modification programs are most appropriate and responsive to our customers’ needs, we cannot anticipate the response by national agencies and certain legislators or if changes to our operations and practices will be required as a result. Specifically and of utmost relevance to our ongoing credit card operations and business, the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 was signed into law with likely significant impact on the credit card industry. The CARD Act, which through Federal Reserve Board rulemaking becomes effective in three stages (i.e., August 2009, February 2010 and August 2010), primarily amends the Truth in Lending Act by adding a number of new substantive and disclosure requirements building upon the Regulation AA and Regulation Z requirements adopted by the Federal Reserve Board in January 2009 (the “January 2009 rules”). The February 2010 rulemaking implemented the majority of the CARD Act provisions which, among other things, restrict application of interest rate increases on new and existing balances prescribe the manner in which payments in excess of the minimum payment may be allocated to amounts due and when penalty rates may be charged on past due balances, and require customers to opt-in to over limit fee assessments. Because many of the requirements of the January 2009 Regulation AA and Regulation Z rules are included in the February 2010 CARD Act rule, the Federal Reserve Board has issued notices withdrawing the January 2009 rules. The Federal Reserve is expected in the near term to promulgate rules that will interpret and implement the provisions of the CARD Act which take effect in August 2010. The August 2010 CARD Act rules will address the reasonableness and proportionality of penalty fees and charges and require that accounts subjected to prior interest rate increases be periodically re-evaluated for interest rate decreases. The CARD Act also requires other government agencies to conduct studies on interchange, debt cancellation agreements and credit insurance products and present reports to Congress on these topics. We are compliant with the provisions of the CARD Act that took effect in August 2009 and February 2010 and continue to make changes to processes and systems in order to comply with the remaining provisions of the CARD Act by the applicable August 2010 effective date. The CARD Act has required us to make changes to our business practices, and will likely require us and our competitors to manage risk differently than has historically been the case. Pricing, underwriting and product changes in response to the new legislation have either been implemented or are under analysis. We currently believe the implementation of these new rules will not have a material adverse impact to us as any impact would be limited to only a portion of the existing affected loan portfolio as the purchase price on future sales volume paid to HSBC Finance would be adjusted to fully reflect the new requirements. In 2009, the Federal government and bank regulatory agencies continued their efforts to stabilize the U.S. economy and reform the financial services industry. See “Regulation” under the caption “Regulatory and Competition” in Item 1. Business of this Form 10-K. It is likely that some portion of the financial regulatory reform proposals will be adopted and enacted. The reforms may have a significant impact on the operations of financial institutions in the U.S., including us and our affiliates. However, it is not possible to assess the impact of financial regulatory reform until final legislation has been enacted and related regulations have been adopted. Operational risks, such as systems disruptions or failures, breaches of security, human error, changes in operational practices or inadequate controls may adversely impact our business and reputation. Operational risk is inherent in virtually all of our activities. While we have established and maintain an overall risk framework 16 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. that is designed to balance strong corporate oversight with well-defined independent risk management, we continue to be subject to some degree of operational risk. Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process a large number of complex transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing and other recordkeeping systems and management controls fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. HSBC North America will continue the implementation of several high priority systems improvements and enhancements and the centralization of corporate functions in 2010, each of which may present increased or additional operational risk that may not be known until their implementation is complete. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems infrastructure arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include: • computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages; • natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes; • events arising from local or regional politics, including terrorist acts; • unforeseen problems encountered while implementing major new computer systems; or • global pandemics, which could have a significant effect on our business operations as well as on HSBC affiliates world-wide. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers, an inability to collect our receivables in affected areas and other loss or liability to us. We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if an employee causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including risks relating to break-downs or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could result in diminished ability by us to operate one or more of our businesses, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, all of which could materially adversely affect us. In a company as large and complex as ours, lapses or deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting are likely to occur from time to time. In recent years, instances of identity theft and fraudulent attempts to obtain personal and financial information from individuals and from companies that maintain such information pertaining to their customers have become more prevalent. Use of the internet for these purposes has also increased. Such acts can have the following possible impacts: • threaten the assets of our customers; • negatively impact customer credit ratings; • impact customers’ ability to repay loan balances; • increase costs for us to respond to such threats and to enhance our processes and systems to ensure maximum security of data; or • damage our reputation from public knowledge of intrusion into our systems and databases. In addition, there is the risk that our controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems could prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. 17 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. Changes to operational practices from time to time could materially positively or negatively impact our performance and results. Such changes may include: • raising the minimum payment or fees to be charged on credit card accounts; • determinations to acquire or sell credit card receivables, residential mortgage loans and other loans; • changes to our customer account management and risk management/collection policies and practices; • increasing investment in technology, business infrastructure and specialized personnel; or • outsourcing of various operations. Increasingly intense competition in the financial services industry may have a material adverse impact on our future results. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Competitive conditions are expected to continue to intensify as continued merger activity in the financial services industry produces larger, better-capitalized and more geographically diverse companies. New products, customers and channels of distribution are constantly emerging. Such competition may impact the terms, rates, costs and/or profits historically included in the financial products we offer and purchase. The traditional segregation of commercial and investment banks has all but eroded. There is no assurance that the significant and increasing competition within the financial services industry will not materially adversely affect our future results. Lawsuits and regulatory investigations and proceedings may continue and increase in the current economic and anticipated regulatory environment. HSBC USA or one of our subsidiaries is or may be named as a defendant in various legal actions, including class actions and other litigation or disputes with third parties, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies. We saw an increase in litigation in 2009 resulting from the deterioration of customers’ financial condition, the mortgage market downturn and general economic conditions. Although we believe the number of new cases should stabilize or even decrease in 2010, there is no certainty that this will occur, especially in the event of increased unemployment rates or a resurgent recession. With the increased regulatory environment, particularly in the financial services industry, there may be additional regulatory investigations and reviews conducted by banking and other regulators and enforcement agencies. These or other future actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results, including additional compliance requirements, adverse to us which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause serious reputational harm. Unanticipated risks may impact our results. We seek to monitor and manage our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, market, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, including models and programs that predict loan delinquency and loss. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques and prepare contingency plans in anticipation of developments, those techniques and plans and the judgments that accompany their application are complex and cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Accordingly, our ability to successfully identify and manage all significant risks we face is an important factor that can significantly impact our results. Our inability to meet funding requirements could impact operations. Adequate liquidity is critical to our ability to operate our businesses. Restrictions on our liquidity could have a negative effect on our financial results and our operations. In first half of 2009, financial markets remained extremely volatile. While the on-going financial market disruptions continued to impact credit spreads and liquidity during 2009, we have seen some improvements in liquidity beginning in the second quarter and continuing through the second half of 2009. Additionally, credit spreads have continued to narrow due to increased market confidence stemming largely from the various government actions taken to restore faith in the capital markets. During 2008 and continuing through 2009, as we witnessed the systemic reduction in available liquidity in the market, we took steps to reduce our 18 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. reliance on debt capital markets and to increase deposits. Despite the apparent improvements in liquidity and our liquidity position, potential conditions remain that would negatively affect our liquidity, including: • an inability to attract or retain deposits; • diminished access to capital markets; • unforeseen cash or capital requirements; • an inability to sell assets; and • an inability to obtain expected funding from HSBC subsidiaries and clients. HSBC has provided capital support in the past and has indicated its commitment and capacity to fund the needs of the business (under most foreseeable circumstances) in the future. Our credit ratings are an important part of maintaining our liquidity. Any downgrade in credit ratings could potentially increase borrowing costs, impact the ability to issue commercial paper and, depending on the severity of the downgrade, substantially limit access to capital markets, require cash payments or collateral posting, and permit termination of certain significant contracts. In January 2009, Fitch, Inc. affirmed our debt ratings, however our outlook was changed from “stable” to “negative.” In March 2009, Moody’s Investors Services (“Moody’s”) downgraded the long-term debt ratings of both HUSI and HSBC Bank USA by one level to A1 and Aa3, respectively and reaffirmed the short-term ratings for each entity at Prime-1. Moody’s also changed their outlook for both entities from “stable” to “negative.” In April 2009, DBRS re-affirmed the long and short-term debt ratings of HUSI and HSBC Bank USA at AA and R-1, respectively, with a “negative” outlook. In August 2009, Standard and Poor’s re-affirmed the long-term and short-term debt ratings of both HUSI and HSBC Bank USA at AA-/A-1+ (HUSI) and AA/A-1+ (HSBC Bank USA). Our capital levels remain well above levels established by current banking regulations as “well capitalized” and, at December 31, 2009, our Tier 1 capital ratio had increased to 9.62 percent from 7.60 percent at December 31, 2008. Significant reductions in pension assets may require additional financial contributions from us Effective January 1, 2005, our previously separate qualified defined benefit pension plan was combined with that of HSBC Finance’s into a single HSBC North America qualified defined benefit plan. We are responsible for providing approximately 60 percent of the financial support required by the plan. In 2008 and 2009, the plan had allocated assets between three primary strategies: domestic equities, international equities and fixed income. At December 31, 2009, plan assets were lower than projected liabilities resulting in an under-funded status. During this period, domestic and international equity indices increased between 20 and 30 percent while interest rates decreased. After expenses, the combination of positive equity and fixed income returns along with a $241 million contribution to the plan by HSBC North America in 2009 resulted in an overall increase in plan assets of eight percent in 2009. This increase, when combined with an increase in the projected benefit obligation continued to result in an under-funded status. At December 31, 2009, the projected benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of the plan assets by approximately $970 million and the accumulated benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of plan assets by approximately $775 million. As these obligations relates to the HSBC North America pension plan, only a portion of these deficits should be considered our responsibility. We and other HSBC North American affiliates with employees participating in this plan will be required to make up this shortfall over a number of years as specified under the Pension Protection Act. This can be accomplished through additional direct contributions, changes to the plan, appreciation in plan assets and/or increases in interest rates resulting in lower liability valuations. See Note 22, “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits” in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information concerning the HSBC North America defined benefit plan. Management projections, estimates and judgments based on historical performance may not be indicative of our future performance. Our management is required to use certain estimates in preparing our financial statements, including accounting estimates to determine loan loss reserves, reserves related to litigation, deferred tax assets and the fair market value of certain assets and liabilities, including goodwill and intangibles, among other items. Loan loss reserve estimates and certain asset and liability valuations are judgmental and are influenced by factors outside our control. To the extent historical averages of the progression of loans into stages of delinquency 19 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. and the amount of loss realized upon charge-off are not predictive of future losses and management is unable to accurately evaluate the portfolio risk factors not fully reflected in the historical model, unexpected additional losses could result. Similarly, to the extent assumptions employed in measuring fair value of assets and liabilities not supported by market prices or other observable parameters do not sufficiently capture their inherent risk, unexpected additional losses could result. Another example in which management judgment is significant is in the evaluation of the recognition of deferred tax assets and in the determination of whether there is a need for a related valuation allowance. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets and record a charge to income or shareholders’ equity if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future taxable income based on management approved business plans, future capital requirements and ongoing tax planning strategies, including capital support from HSBC as a necessary part of such plans and strategies. This process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period. The recognition of deferred tax assets requires management to make significant judgments about future earnings, the periods in which items will impact taxable income, and the application of inherently complex tax laws. Included in our forecasts are assumptions regarding our estimate of future expected credit losses. The use of different estimates can result in changes in the amounts of deferred tax items recognized, which can result in equity and earnings volatility because such changes are reported in current period earnings. See Note 18, “Income Taxes” in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of our deferred taxes/assets. Changes in accounting standards are beyond our control and may have a material impact on how we report our financial results and condition. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and the results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”), the SEC and our bank regulators, including the Office of Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve, change the financial accounting and reporting standards, or the interpretation thereof, and guidance that govern the preparation and disclosure of external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report and disclose our financial results and condition, including our segment results. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. We may, in certain instances, change a business practice in order to comply with new or revised standards. Key employees may be difficult to retain due to contraction of the business and limits on promotional activities. Our employees are our most important resource and, in many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. If we were unable to continue to attract and retain qualified key employees to support the various functions of our businesses, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. The significant losses we have recognized, reductions in variable compensation and the expectation of continued weakness in the general economy could raise concerns about key employees’ future compensation and promotional opportunities. With the potential for an improved economic outlook, there will be increased risk to retain top performers and critical skill employees. If key personnel were to leave us and equally knowledgeable or skilled personnel are unavailable in HSBC or could not be retained in the market to fill these roles, our ability to manage through the difficult economy may be hindered or impaired. Our reputation has a direct impact on our financial results and ongoing operations. Our ability to attract and retain customers and conduct business transactions with our counterparties could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation, or the reputation of affiliates operating under the HSBC brand, is damaged. Our failure to address, or to appear to fail to address, various issues that could give rise to reputational risk could cause harm to us and our business prospects. Reputational issues include, but are not limited to: • appropriately addressing potential conflicts of interest; • legal and regulatory requirements; 20 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. • ethical issues; • anti-money laundering and economic sanctions programs; • privacy issues; • fraud issues; • data security issues; • recordkeeping; • sales and trading practices; • the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in products offered; and • general company performance. The failure to address these issues appropriately could make our customers unwilling to do business with us or give rise to increased regulatory action, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The inability to integrate business and portfolio acquisitions successfully could undermine the realization of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition and have a material adverse impact on our results of operation. We have in the past, and may again in the future, seek to grow our business by acquiring other businesses or loan portfolios. There can be no assurance that acquisitions will have the anticipated positive results, including results relating to: • the total cost of integration; • the time required to complete the integration; • the amount of longer-term cost savings; or • the overall performance of the combined entity. Integration of an acquired business can be complex and costly, and may sometimes include combining relevant accounting, data processing and other record keeping systems and management controls, as well as managing relevant relationships with clients, suppliers and other business partners, as well as with employees. There is no assurance that any businesses or portfolios acquired in the future will be successfully integrated and will result in all of the positive benefits anticipated. If we are not able to successfully integrate acquisitions, there is the risk that its results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff that have been outstanding for more than 180 days at December 31, 2009. 