Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion provides a description of some of the important risk factors that could affect our actual results and could cause our results to vary materially from those expressed in public statements or documents. However, other factors besides those discussed below or elsewhere in other of our reports filed or furnished with the SEC could affect our business or results. The reader should not consider any description of such factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that we may face. The current uncertain market and economic conditions may continue to affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business and earnings are affected by general business, economic and market conditions in the United States and abroad. Given our concentration of business activities in the United States, we are particularly exposed to any additional turmoil in the economy, housing downturns, high unemployment, tighter credit conditions and reduced economic growth that have occurred over the past three years and appear likely to continue in 2011. General business, economic and market conditions that could continue to affect us include: • low consumer confidence and reduced consumer spending; • a “double dip” recession; • unemployment levels; • wage income levels and declines in wealth; • market value of residential and commercial real estate throughout the United States; • inflation; • monetary supply; • fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets in which we fund our operations; • unexpected geopolitical events; • fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar; • short-term and long-term interest rates; • availability of liquidity; • tight consumer credit conditions; • higher bankruptcy filings; and • new laws, regulations or regulatory initiatives. In a challenging economic environment such as currently being experienced in the United States, more of our customers are likely to, and have in fact become, delinquent on their loans or other obligations as compared to historical periods as many of our customers are experiencing reductions in cash flow available to service their debt. These delinquencies, in turn, have adversely affected our earnings. The problems in the housing markets in the United States in the last four years have been exacerbated by continued high unemployment rates. If businesses remain cautious to hire, additional losses are likely to be significant in all types of our consumer loans, including credit cards, due to decreased consumer income. Although during the first half of 2010, housing prices began to stabilize and even recover in certain markets, housing prices started to decline again in the later half of 2010. If housing prices continue to decline, there may be increased delinquency and losses in our real estate portfolio. Mortgage lenders have substantially tightened lending standards. These actions have impacted borrowers’ abilities to refinance existing mortgage loans. This in turn, impacted both credit performance and run-off rates and has resulted in elevated delinquency rates for real estate secured loans in our portfolio. Additionally, the high levels of 16 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. inventory of homes for sale combined with depressed property values in many markets has resulted in higher loss severities on homes that are foreclosed and remarketed. Despite our cessation in processing foreclosures in December, our inventory of foreclosed properties (“REO”) continued to increase. In the event economic conditions continue to be depressed or become further depressed and lead to a “double dip” recession, there would be a significant negative impact on delinquencies, charge-offs and losses in all loan portfolios with a corresponding impact on our results of operations. We may incur additional costs and expenses relating to mortgage loan repurchases and other mortgage loan securitization – related activities. In connection with our loan sale and securitization activities with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the “Government Sponsored Entities” or “GSEs”) and loan sale and private-label securitization transactions, HUSI has made representations and warranties that the loans sold meet certain requirements. For transactions with the GSEs, these representations include type of collateral, underwriting standards, validity of certain borrower representations in connection with the loan, that primary mortgage insurance is in force for any mortgage loan with a loan-to-value ratio (“LTV”) greater than 80 percent, and the use of the GSEs’ standard legal documentation. We may be, and have been, required to repurchase loans and/or indemnify the GSEs and other private investors for losses due to breaches of these representations and warranties. Substantially all of the repurchase demands we have resolved to date, however, are related to loans sold to the GSEs. In estimating our repurchase liability arising from breaches of representations and warranties, we consider several factors, including the level of outstanding repurchase demands in inventory and our historical defense rate, the level of outstanding demands for loan files and the related historical repurchase request conversion rate and defense rate, and the level of potential future demands based on historical conversion rates of loans which we have not received a repurchase demand. While we believe that our current repurchase liability reserves are adequate, the factors referred to above are subject to change in light of market developments, the economic environment and other circumstances, some of which are beyond our control and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that such reserves will not need to be increased in the future. We have also been involved as a sponsor/seller of loans used to facilitate whole loan securitizations underwritten by our affiliate, HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. (“HSI”). Participants in the U.S. mortgage securitization market that purchased and repackaged whole loans have been the subject of lawsuits and governmental and regulatory investigations and inquires, which have been directed at groups within the U.S. mortgage market, such as servicers, originators, trustees or sponsors of securitizations, and at particular participants within these groups. We expect this level of focus will continue and, potentially, intensify, so long as the U.S. real estate markets continue to be distressed. As a result, we may be subject to additional litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny related to our participation in the U.S. mortgage securitization market, either individually or as a member of group. For additional discussion, see the caption “Mortgage Loan Repurchase Obligations” in Note 27, “Guarantee Arrangements,” in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. We may incur additional costs and expenses in ensuring that we satisfy requirements relating to our mortgage foreclosure processes and the industry-wide delay in processing foreclosures may have a significant impact upon loss severity. State and federal officials are investigating the procedures followed by mortgage servicing companies and banks, including HSBC Bank USA and certain of our affiliates, relating to foreclosures. We and our affiliates have responded to all related inquiries and cooperated with all applicable investigations, including a joint examination by staffs of the OCC and the Federal Reserve as part of their broad horizontal review of industry foreclosure practices. Following the examination, the OCC issued a supervisory letter to HSBC Bank USA noting certain deficiencies in the processing, preparation and signing of affidavits and other documents supporting foreclosures and in governance of and resources devoted to our foreclosure processes, including the evaluation and monitoring of third party law firms retained to effect our foreclosures. Certain other processes were deemed adequate. The Federal Reserve issued a similar supervisory letter to HSBC Finance and HSBC North America. We have suspended foreclosures until such time as we have substantially addressed the noted deficiencies in our processes. We are also reviewing foreclosures where judgment has not yet been entered and will correct deficient documentation and re-file affidavits where necessary. 17 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. We and our affiliates are engaged in discussions with the OCC and the Federal Reserve regarding the terms of consent cease and desist orders, which will prescribe actions to address the deficiencies noted in the joint examination. We expect the consent orders will be finalized shortly after the date this Form 10-K is filed. While the impact of the OCC consent order on HSBC Bank USA depends on the final terms, we believe it has the potential to increase our operational, reputational and legal risk profiles and expect implementation of its provisions will require significant financial and managerial resources. In addition, the consent orders will not preclude further actions against HSBC Bank USA or our affiliates by bank regulatory or other agencies, including the imposition of fines and civil money penalties. We are unable at this time, however, to determine the likelihood of any further action or the amount of penalties or fines, if any, that may be imposed by the regulators or agencies. We expect to incur additional costs and expenses in connection with the correction or affirmation of previously-filed foreclosure paperwork and the resulting delays in foreclosures, including costs associated with the maintenance of properties while foreclosures are delayed, legal expenses associated with re-filing documents or, as necessary, re-filing foreclosure cases, and costs associated with fluctuations in home prices while foreclosures are delayed. These costs could increase depending on the length of the delay. In addition, we may incur additional costs and expenses as a result of legislative, administrative or regulatory investigations or actions relating to our foreclosure processes or with respect to the mortgage servicing industry in general. We may also see an increase in private litigation concerning our practices. However, it is not possible at this time to predict the ultimate outcome of these matters or the impact that they will have on our financial results. Due to the significant slow-down in foreclosures, and in some instances, cessation of all foreclosure processing by numerous loan servicers, including us, for some period of time in 2011 there may be some reduction in the number of properties being marketed following foreclosure. The impact of that decrease may increase demand for properties currently on the market resulting in a stabilization of home prices but could also result in a larger number of vacant properties in communities creating downward pressure on general property values. As a result, the short term impact of the foreclosure processing delay is highly uncertain. However, the longer term impact is even more uncertain as eventually servicers will again begin to foreclose and market properties in large numbers which is likely to create a significant over-supply of housing inventory. This could lead to a significant increase in loss severity on REO properties. Recently implemented Federal and state laws and regulations may significantly impact our operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment. Changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations, including changes in tax rates, affecting banking, consumer credit, bankruptcy, privacy, consumer protection or other matters could materially impact our performance. Ensuring compliance with increasing regulatory requirements and initiatives could affect operational costs and negatively impact our overall results. Specifically, attempts by local, state and national regulatory agencies to address perceived problems with the credit card industry and more recently, to additionally address perceived problems in the financial services industry generally through broad or targeted legislative or regulatory initiatives aimed at lenders’ operations in consumer lending markets, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of products we can offer, how these products may be originated, the fees and charges that may be applied to accounts and how accounts may be collected or security interests enforced, which ultimately could negatively impact our results. There is also significant focus on loss mitigation and foreclosure activity for real estate loans. We cannot fully anticipate the response by national regulatory agencies, state attorneys generals, or certain legislators, or if significant changes to our operations and practices will be required as a result. On July 21, 2010, the “Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act,” a sweeping overhaul of the financial services industry, was signed into law. For a description of the law, see the “Regulation – Financial Regulatory Reform” section under the “Regulation and Competition” section of Item 1. Business. The law will have significant impact on the operations of financial institutions in the U.S., including HSBC USA, HSBC Bank USA and our affiliates. We are unable at this time, however, to determine the full impact of the law due to the significant number of new rules and regulations that will be promulgated in order to implement the law. Also, specifically and of utmost relevance to our consumer business, we do not know what will be the far-reaching effect on our business 18 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. of the newly created Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”), since the CFPB has been given broad based authority over consumer products and services such as those provided by our consumer businesses. On May 22, 2009, the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 was signed into law and we have implemented all of its applicable provisions. The CARD Act required changes to our business practices, and will require us and our competitors to manage risk differently than has historically been the case. Pricing, underwriting and product changes have either been implemented or are under continuing analysis. The implementation of these new rules did not have a material adverse impact to us as any impact is limited to only a portion of the existing credit card loan portfolio as the purchase price on future credit card sales volume paid to HSBC Finance has been adjusted to fully reflect the new requirements and the impact on future cash flows. The transition to Basel II in 2011 will continue to put significant pressure on regulatory capital. Subject to regulatory approval, HSBC North America will be required to adopt Basel II provisions no later than April 1, 2011, in accordance with current regulatory timelines. HSBC USA Inc. will not report separately under the new rules, but HSBC Bank USA will report under the new rules on a stand-alone basis. Further increases in regulatory capital may be required prior to the Basel II adoption date; however, the exact amount will depend upon our prevailing risk profile and that of our North America affiliates under various stress scenarios. Adoption of the Basel II provisions must be preceded by a parallel run period of at least four quarters, and requires the approval of U.S. regulators. This parallel run, which was initiated in January 2010, encompasses enhancements to a number of risk policies, processes and systems to align HSBC Bank USA with the Basel II final rule requirements. HSBC Bank USA will seek regulatory approval for adoption when the program enhancements have been completed which may extend beyond April 1, 2011. Operational risks, such as systems disruptions or failures, breaches of security, human error, changes in operational practices or inadequate controls may adversely impact our business and reputation. Operational risk is inherent in virtually all of our activities. While we have established and maintain an overall risk framework that is designed to balance strong corporate oversight with well-defined independent risk management, we continue to be subject to some degree of operational risk. Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process a large number of complex transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing and other recordkeeping systems and management controls fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. HSBC North America will continue the implementation of several high priority systems improvements and enhancements in 2011, each of which may present increased or additional operational risk that may not be known until their implementation is complete. Also, in order to react quickly to newly-implemented regulatory requirements, implementation of changes to systems and enhancements may be required to be completed within very tight time frames, which would increase operational risk. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems infrastructure arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include: • computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages; • natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes; • events arising from local, regional or international politics, including terrorist acts; • unforeseen problems encountered while implementing major new computer systems; or • global pandemics, which could have a significant effect on our business operations as well as on HSBC affiliates world-wide. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers, an inability to collect our receivables in affected areas and other loss or liability to us. We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if an employee causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including risks relating to break-downs or failures of such parties’ own 19 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could result in diminished ability by us to operate one or more of our businesses, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, all of which could materially adversely affect us. In a company as large and complex as ours, lapses or deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting are likely to occur from time to time. In recent years, instances of identity theft and fraudulent attempts to obtain personal and financial information from individuals and from companies that maintain such information pertaining to their customers have become more prevalent. Use of the internet for these purposes has also increased. Such acts can have the following possible impacts: • threaten the assets of our customers; • negatively impact customer credit ratings; • impact customers’ ability to repay loan balances; • increase costs for us to respond to such threats and to enhance our processes and systems to ensure maximum security of data; or • damage our reputation from public knowledge of intrusion into our systems and databases. In addition, there is the risk that our controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems could prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. Changes to operational practices from time to time could materially positively or negatively impact our performance and results. Such changes may include: • raising the minimum payment or fees to be charged on credit card accounts; • determining to acquire or sell credit card receivables, residential mortgage loans and other loans; • changes to our customer account management and risk management/collection policies and practices; • increasing investment in technology, business infrastructure and specialized personnel; or • outsourcing of various operations. Competition in the financial services industry may have a material adverse impact on our future results. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Competitive conditions are expected to continue to intensify as continued merger activity in the financial services industry produces larger, better-capitalized and more geographically diverse companies. New products, customers and channels of distribution are constantly emerging. Such competition may impact the terms, rates, costs and/or profits historically included in the financial products we offer and purchase. There is no assurance that the significant and increasing competition within the financial services industry will not materially adversely affect our future results. Lawsuits and regulatory investigations and proceedings may continue and increase in the current economic and regulatory environment. HSBC USA and our subsidiaries are or may be named as defendants in various legal actions, including class actions and other litigation or disputes with third parties, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies. We saw continued litigation in 2010 resulting from the deterioration of customers’ financial condition, the mortgage market downturn and general economic conditions. There is no certainty that the litigation will decrease in the near future, especially in the event of continued high unemployment rates, a resurgent recession or additional regulatory investigations by federal and state governmental agencies. With the increased regulatory environment, particularly in the financial services industry, there may be additional regulatory investigations and reviews conducted by banking regulators, state attorneys general or state regulators which may cause financial or reputational harm. With the increased regulatory environment, particularly in the financial services industry, there may be additional regulatory investigations and reviews conducted by regulators and other enforcement agencies that, if determined adversely, may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties 20 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. or other results, including additional compliance requirements, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause serious reputational harm. Unanticipated risks may impact our results. We seek to monitor and manage our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, market, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, including models and programs that predict loan delinquency and loss. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques and prepare contingency plans in anticipation of developments, those techniques and plans and the judgments that accompany their application are complex and cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Accordingly, our ability to successfully identify and manage all significant risks we face is an important factor that can significantly impact our results. Our inability to meet funding requirements due to deposit attrition or ratings could impact operations. Adequate liquidity is critical to our ability to operate our businesses. Despite the apparent improvements in market liquidity and our liquidity position, potential conditions remain that would negatively affect our liquidity, including: • an inability to attract or retain deposits; • diminished access to capital markets; • unforeseen cash or capital requirements; • an inability to sell assets; and • an inability to obtain expected funding from HSBC subsidiaries and clients. HSBC has provided capital support in the past and has indicated its commitment and capacity to fund the needs of the business in the future. Our credit ratings are an important part of maintaining our liquidity. Any downgrade in credit ratings could potentially increase borrowing costs, impact the ability to issue commercial paper and, depending on the severity of the downgrade, substantially limit access to capital markets, require cash payments or collateral posting, and permit termination of certain significant contracts. Management projections, estimates and judgments based on historical performance may not be indicative of our future performance. Our management is required to use certain estimates in preparing our financial statements, including accounting estimates to determine loan loss reserves, reserves related to litigation, deferred tax assets and the fair market value of certain assets and liabilities, including goodwill and intangibles, among other items. Loan loss reserve estimates and certain asset and liability valuations are judgmental and are influenced by factors outside our control. To the extent historical averages of the progression of loans into stages of delinquency and the amount of loss realized upon charge-off are not predictive of future losses and management is unable to accurately evaluate the portfolio risk factors not fully reflected in historical models, unexpected additional losses could result. Similarly, to the extent assumptions employed in measuring fair value of assets and liabilities not supported by market prices or other observable parameters do not sufficiently capture their inherent risk, unexpected additional losses could result. Another example in which management judgment is significant is in the evaluation of the recognition of deferred tax assets and in the determination of whether there is a need for a related valuation allowance. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets and record a charge to income or shareholders’ equity if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future taxable income based on management approved business plans, future capital requirements and ongoing tax planning strategies, including capital support from HSBC as a necessary part of such plans and strategies. This process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period. The recognition of deferred tax assets requires management to make significant judgments about future earnings, the periods in which items will impact taxable income, and the application of inherently complex tax laws. However, since market conditions have created losses in HSBC North America in recent periods 21 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. and volatility on our pre-tax book income, the analysis of the realizability of the deferred tax asset significantly discounts any future taxable income expected from continuing operations and relies to a greater extent on continued capital support from our parent, HSBC, including tax planning strategies implemented in relation to such support. Included in our forecasts are assumptions regarding our estimate of future expected credit losses. The use of different estimates can result in changes in the amounts of deferred tax items recognized, which can result in equity and earnings volatility because such changes are reported in current period earnings. See Note 18, “Income Taxes,” in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of our deferred taxes/assets. Changes in accounting standards are beyond our control and may have a material impact on how we report our financial results and condition. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”), the SEC and our bank regulators, including the Office of Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve Board, change the financial accounting and reporting standards, or the interpretation thereof, and guidance that govern the preparation and disclosure of external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report and disclose our financial results and condition, including our segment results. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. We may, in certain instances, change a business practice in order to comply with new or revised standards. Key employees may be difficult to retain due to contraction of the business and limits on promotional activities. Our employees are our most important resource and, in many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. If we were unable to continue to attract and retain qualified key employees to support the various functions of our businesses, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. Our recent financial performance, reductions in variable compensation and other benefits and the expectation of continued weakness in the general economy could raise concerns about key employees’ future compensation and promotional opportunities. As economic conditions improve, there will be increased risk to retaining top performers and critical skill employees. If key personnel were to leave us and equally knowledgeable or skilled personnel are unavailable within HSBC or could not be sourced in the market to fill these roles, our ability to manage through the difficult economy may be hindered or impaired. Our reputation has a direct impact on our financial results and ongoing operations. Our ability to attract and retain customers and conduct business transactions with our counterparties could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation, or the reputation of affiliates operating under the HSBC brand, is damaged. Our failure to address, or to appear to fail to address, various issues that could give rise to reputational risk could cause harm to us and our business prospects. Reputational issues include, but are not limited to: • appropriately addressing potential conflicts of interest; • legal and regulatory requirements; • ethical issues; • anti-money laundering and economic sanctions programs; • privacy issues; • fraud issues; • data security issues related to our customers or employees; • recordkeeping; • sales and trading practices; • the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our businesses; and 22 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. • general company performance. The failure to address these issues appropriately could make our customers unwilling to do business with us or give rise to increased regulatory action, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Significant reductions in pension assets may require additional financial contributions from us. Effective January 1, 2005, our previously separate qualified defined benefit pension plan was combined with that of HSBC Finance’s into a single HSBC North America qualified defined benefit plan. We are responsible for providing approximately 41 percent of the financial support required by the plan. In 2010 and 2009, the plan had allocated assets between three primary strategies: domestic equities, international equities and fixed income securities. At December 31, 2010, plan assets were lower than projected plan liabilities resulting in an under-funded status. During 2010, domestic and international equity indices increased between 11 percent and 17 percent while interest rates decreased. After expenses, the combination of positive equity returns and fixed income returns along with a $187 million contribution to the plan by HSBC North America in 2010 resulted in an overall increase in plan assets of 20 percent in 2010. This increase, when combined with an increase in the projected benefit obligation continued to result in an under-funded status. At December 31, 2010, the defined benefit plan was frozen, significantly reducing future benefit accruals. The accumulated benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of the plan assets by approximately $820 million. As these obligations relate to the HSBC North America pension plan, only a portion of this deficit should be considered our responsibility. We and other HSBC North American affiliates with employees participating in this plan will be required to make up this shortfall over a number of years as specified under the Pension Protection Act. This can be accomplished through direct contributions, appreciation in plan assets and/or increases in interest rates resulting in lower liability valuations. See Note 22, “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits,” in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information concerning the HSBC North America defined benefit plan. The inability to integrate business and portfolio acquisitions successfully could undermine the realization of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition and have a material adverse impact on our results of operation. We have in the past, and may again in the future, seek to grow our business by acquiring other businesses or loan portfolios. There can be no assurance that acquisitions will have the anticipated positive results, including results relating to: • the total cost of integration; • the time required to complete the integration; • the amount of longer-term cost savings; or • the overall performance of the combined entity. Integration of an acquired business can be complex and costly, and may sometimes include combining relevant accounting, data processing and other record keeping systems and management controls, as well as managing relevant relationships with clients, suppliers and other business partners, as well as with employees. There is no assurance that any businesses or portfolios acquired in the future will be successfully integrated and will result in all of the positive benefits anticipated. If we are not able to successfully integrate acquisitions, there is the risk that its results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents HSBC USA Inc. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff that have been outstanding for more than 180 days at December 31, 2010. 