ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that UTG faces. Additional risks and uncertainties that the Company is unaware of, or currently deemed immaterial, also may become important factors that affect our business. If any of these risks were to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The Company faces significant competition for insurance and third party administration clients. Competition in the insurance industry may limit our ability to attract and retain customers. UTG may face competition now and in the future from the following: other insurance and third party administration (TPA) providers, including larger non-insurance related companies which provide TPA services. In particular, our competitors include insurance companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to provide insurance services with lower margins. Additionally, insurance companies and other institutions with larger capitalization and others not subject to insurance regulatory restrictions have the ability to serve the insurance needs of larger customers. If the Company is unable to attract and retain insurance clients, continued growth, results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be negatively affected. The main sources of income from operations are premium and net investment income. Net investment income is equal to the difference between the investment income received from various types of investment securities and other income-producing assets and the related expenses incurred in connection with maintaining these investments. The primary sources of income can be affected by changes in market interest rates and various economic conditions. These conditions are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, both domestic and foreign, and the monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. The Company has adopted asset and liability management policies to try to minimize the potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on our net interest income, primarily by altering the mix and maturity of loans, investments and funding sources. However, even with these policies in place, the Company cannot provide assurance that changes in interest rates will not negatively impact our operating results. An increase in interest rates also could have a negative impact on business by reducing the demand for insurance products. Fluctuations in interest rates may result in disintermediation, which is the flow of funds away from insurance companies into direct investments that pay higher rates of return, and may affect the value of investment securities and other interest-earning assets. Since 2008 disintermediation has not been much of an issue, however given the long term nature of UG’s investments, should the market suddenly turn the impact could be extreme and disproportionate. Significant time has been spent internally researching the Company’s risk and communicating with outside investment advisors about the current investment environment and ways to ensure preservation of capital and mitigate any losses. Management has put extensive efforts into evaluating its investment holdings. Management intends to continue its close monitoring of its bond holdings and other investments for additional deterioration or market condition changes. Future events may result in Management’s determination certain current investment holdings may need to be sold which could result in gains or losses in future periods. Such future events could also result in other than temporary declines in value that could result in future period impairment losses. Within the Company’s trading accounts, certain trading securities carried as liabilities represent securities sold short. A gain, limited to the price at which the security was sold short, or a loss, potentially unlimited in size, will be recognized upon the termination of the short sale. Because UTG serves primarily individuals located in four states, the ability of our customers to pay their insurance premiums is impacted by the economic conditions in these areas. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 52% of our total direct premium was collected from Illinois, Louisiana, Ohio, and Texas. Thus, results of operations are heavily dependent upon the strength of these economies. In addition, a substantial portion of our investment mortgage loans are secured by real estate located primarily in Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Ohio and Texas. Consequently, our ability to continue to originate real estate loans may be impaired by adverse changes in local and regional economic conditions in these real estate markets or by acts of nature. These events also could have an adverse effect on the value of our collateral and, due to the concentration of our collateral in real estate, on our financial condition. The Company has traditionally obtained funds principally through premium deposits. If, as a result of competitive pressures, market interest rates, general economic conditions or other events, the balance of the premium deposits decrease relative to our overall operations, the Company may have to look for ways to further reduce operating costs which could have a negative impact on results of operations or financial condition. The Company has significant business risks in the amount of policy benefit expenses incurred each year. The majority of these expenses are related to death claims paid on life insurance contracts. The Company has no control over these expenses, which have a significant impact on our financial results. Insurance holding companies operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and examination by various federal and state regulatory agencies. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters including: changes in the ownership or control, maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of an insurance company, permissible types, amounts and terms of investments, permissible non-insurance activities, the level of policyholder reserves, and restrictions on dividend payments. The Company will continue to consider the acquisition of other businesses. However, the opportunities to make suitable acquisitions on favorable terms in the future may not be available, which could negatively impact the growth of business. UTG expects that other insurance and financial companies will compete to acquire compatible businesses. This competition could increase prices for acquisitions that we would likely pursue, and our competitors may have greater resources. Also, acquisitions of regulated businesses such as insurance companies are subject to various regulatory approvals. If appropriate regulatory approvals are not received, an acquisition would not be able to complete what we believe is in our best interest. UTG has in the past acquired, and will in the future consider the acquisition of other businesses. If other companies are acquired in the future, our business may be negatively impacted by risks related to those acquisitions. These risks include the following: the risk that the acquired business will not perform in accordance with management’s expectations; the risk that difficulties will arise in connection with the integration of the operations of the acquired business with our operations; the risk that Management will divert its attention from other aspects of our business; the risk that key employees of the acquired business are lost; the risks associated with entering into geographic and product markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience; and the risks of the acquired company assumed in connection with an acquisition. As a result of these risks, any given acquisition, if and when consummated, may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, because the consideration for an acquisition may involve cash, debt or the issuance of shares of our common stock and may involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, existing holders of our common stock could experience dilution in connection with the acquisition. UTG relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure or interruptions or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, or administrative servicing systems. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could result in a loss of customer business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, we must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. If we fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 