Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion provides a description of some of the important risk factors that could affect our actual results and could cause our results to vary materially from those expressed in public statements or documents. However, other factors besides those discussed below or elsewhere in other of our reports filed or furnished with the SEC, could affect our business or results. The reader should not consider any description of such factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that we may face. General business, economic and market conditions. Our business and earnings are affected by general business, economic and market conditions in the United States and abroad. Given our concentration of business activities in the United States, we are particularly exposed to downturns in the United States economy. General business, economic and market conditions that could affect us include: • short-term and long-term interest rates; • recession; • unemployment levels; • inflation; • monetary supply; • availability of liquidity; • fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets in which we fund our operations; • market value of consumer owned and commercial real estate throughout the United States; • tighter consumer credit conditions; and • the ease of filing and amounts recoverable in bankruptcy. In addition, new laws, regulations or regulatory initiatives could impact any of these factors or our operations directly. The adverse financial market conditions that we first began to experience in the second half of 2007, particularly in the U.S. mortgage and credit markets, continued into 2008. The continued financial market disruptions have resulted in significantly wider credit spreads and severely diminished liquidity. These adverse conditions intensified toward the end of the third quarter of 2008 as credit conditions and market liquidity rapidly deteriorated further causing increased levels of volatility and stress in the marketplace leading to further consolidation within the financial services industry. These adverse conditions continue to impact the carrying value of several of our asset classes, including asset-backed securities held for trading purposes, sub-prime residential mortgage loans held for sale, credit derivative products, including derivative contracts with monoline insurance companies, and securities available for sale. Volatility with respect to certain capital markets activities remains elevated and continued deterioration of the U.S. markets, including further adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies in respect of structured credit products or other credit related exposures, or of monoline insurers, could adversely impact our earnings with a corresponding impact on capital. Capital infusions from our parent, HSBC, have been essential to our capital position in 2008 and enabled us to maintain capital levels that we believe are prudent in the current market environment. HSBC has demonstrated its support through these capital contributions and has indicated it is fully committed and has the capacity to fund the needs of the business (under most foreseeable circumstances) but has never been a guarantor of the debt. In a poor economic environment, such as is currently being experienced in the United States, more of our customers and counterparties are likely to, and have in fact, become delinquent or have defaulted on their loans or other obligations. This has resulted in higher levels of provisions for credit losses in our consumer portfolios as well as our commercial portfolio, which adversely affected our earnings. 15 HSBC USA Inc. The problems in the housing market in the United States in the last two years now have been made more severe by the significantly climbing unemployment rate. Unemployment rates are rising in all markets but even more dramatically in the same markets which are experiencing the greatest home value depreciation. Although gasoline costs have decreased in recent months, the unemployment rates have negated the benefit of the lowering costs of gasoline. If the recession becomes more severe and unemployment rates continue to increase, additional losses are likely to be significant in all types of our consumer loans, including credit cards. Additionally, with a loss in consumer confidence, we expect consumer loan originations to decrease further. In 2008, a continued dramatic slow down in the appreciation of property values was experienced throughout much of the United States. Most markets experienced depreciation in property values, and this appears to be an ongoing trend. We believe that the slowdown in the housing market will be deeper in terms of its impact on housing prices and the duration will extend into 2010. Continued or expanded slowing of appreciation or increased depreciation can be expected to result in higher delinquency and losses in our real estate portfolio. In addition, certain changes to the conditions described above could diminish demand for our products and services, or increase the cost to provide such products or services. In the event current economic conditions continue to worsen considerably, there would be a significant negative impact on delinquencies, charge-offs and losses in all loan portfolios. Liquidity. Adequate liquidity is critical to our ability to operate our businesses. Restrictions to our liquidity are likely to have a negative effect on our financial results and our operations. In 2008, domestic and international capital markets continued to be extremely volatile and reactionary. Debt investors appear to be waiting to fully understand the level and specifics of Treasury intervention, as well as the U.S. government’s economic stimulus plans. Other than for offerings supported by an FDIC guarantee of repayment, institutional fixed income investors have been reluctant to commit significant levels of liquidity to the financial sector. Throughout 2008 and into 2009, credit spreads have been at historically wide levels. Commercial paper markets remain open, although investors, for the most part, are requesting very short-term maturities with a higher percentage of rolling maturities on an overnight basis. Potential conditions that would negatively affect our liquidity include: • an inability to attract or retain deposits; • diminished access to capital markets; • unforeseen cash or capital requirements; • an inability to sell assets; and • an inability to obtain expected funding from HSBC subsidiaries and clients. In December 2008, we issued an aggregate of $2.7 billion of guaranteed senior notes pursuant to the Debt Guarantee Program component of the TLGP. Unless further extended by the FDIC, the TLGP will end on October 31, 2009. The absence of more normalized credit markets by that time would substantially impact our ability to fund in the term debt markets. However, our continued ability to build our core deposit base and the availability of the Federal Reserve’s Commercial Paper Funding Facility through October 30, 2009, should we elect to enroll, mitigates this risk in the near term. Our credit ratings are an important part of maintaining our liquidity. Any downgrade in credit ratings could potentially increase borrowing costs, impact the ability to issue commercial paper and, depending on the severity of the downgrade, substantially limit access to capital markets, require cash payments or collateral posting, and permit termination of certain significant contracts. In December 2008, our debt ratings were affirmed by Standard and Poor’s; however our outlook was changed from “stable” to “negative.” In January 2009, Fitch, Inc. affirmed our debt ratings; however our outlook was also changed from “stable” to “negative.” Basel II implementation. HSBC North America is required to adopt Basel II provisions no later than April 1, 2011. While Basel II does not apply to HSBC USA on a standalone basis, it does apply to HBUS. The new regulatory capital framework is likely to result in a need for HBUS to hold additional regulatory capital. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, the capital requirements of Basel II could grow prior to implementation in 2011, increasing further the amount of capital needed by HBUS. The new rules could also drive changes in our funding mix, resulting in lower net income, and/or continued shrinking of the balance sheet. HSBC has demonstrated its support through significant capital contributions in 2008, and has indicated that it is fully committed to and has the 16 HSBC USA Inc. capacity to fund the needs of the business (under most foreseeable circumstances) but has never been a guarantor of our debt. Competition. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Competitive conditions are expected to continue to intensify as continued merger activity in the financial services industry produces larger, better-capitalized and more geographically diverse companies. New products, customers and channels of distribution are constantly emerging. Such competition may impact the terms, rates, costs and/or profits historically included in the financial products we offer and purchase. The traditional segregation of commercial and investment banks has all but eroded. There is no assurance that the significant and increasing competition within the financial services industry will not materially adversely affect our future results. Federal and state regulation. We operate in a highly regulated environment. Changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting banking, consumer credit, bankruptcy, privacy, consumer protection or other matters could materially impact our performance. For example, anti-money laundering requirements under the Patriot Act are frequently revisited by the U.S. Congress and Executive Agencies, and there has been an increased focus on compliance with economic sanctions following the publication in September 2008 of Economic Enforcement Guidelines by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. Similarly, attempts by local, state and national regulatory agencies to address perceived problems with the mortgage lending industry through broad or targeted legislative or regulatory initiatives aimed at lenders’ operations in consumer lending markets could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of consumer loan products we can offer and, ultimately, lowering our net income. On December 18, 2008, the Federal Reserve together with the Office of Thrift Supervision and the National Credit Union Association issued a final Unfair and Deceptive Acts or Practices rule (“UDAP Rules”) which will be effective on July 1, 2010. At such time, the resulting effect of the UDAP Rule will be to, among other things, restrict the ability to apply interest rate increases on new and existing credit card balances require changes to deferred interest plans; prescribe the manner in which payments may be applied to amounts due and penalty rates that may be charged on past due balances; and set permissible fees. We are already in compliance with some of its provisions. We currently believe implementation of the UDAP Rule may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We anticipate increased and ongoing consumer protection activity at the Federal level regarding all areas involving consumer loans and products. For example, on January 6, 2009, legislation was introduced in the U.S. Senate that, if enacted as written, would impair our ability to collect the balance of mortgage loans if a borrower seeks relief to repay debts under a Chapter 13 bankruptcy plan. The “Helping Families Save Their Homes in Bankruptcy Act of 2009” (the “Act”) would provide bankruptcy courts with the authority to reduce the principal amount due under a mortgage loan; prohibit, reduce or delay interest rate adjustments; extend the maturity of loans to 40 years; and establish a fixed interest rate, plus a reasonable premium for risk as determined by the bankruptcy court. The Act also provides that if any violation of a Federal or state consumer protection law is found to have occurred with respect to any consumer debt, the entire claim for the debt in a Chapter 13 proceeding would not be permitted. The Act also contains provisions that would expand eligibility for Chapter 13 protections for borrowers whose mortgage debt exceeds the value of their home and by eliminating other conditions to such petitions. It is likely that some form of bankruptcy reform will be enacted and that the final law will have a negative effect upon our results, but it is not possible to assess the impact until the provisions are finalized. Lawsuits and regulatory investigations and proceedings. HSBC USA or one of our subsidiaries is or may be named as a defendant in various legal actions, including class actions and other litigation or disputes with third parties, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies. These or other future actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results, including additional compliance requirements, adverse to us which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause serious reputational harm. We anticipate that there will be increased litigation resulting from the mortgage market downturn and general economic downturn. 17 HSBC USA Inc. Operational risks. Our businesses are dependent upon our ability to process a large number of complex transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing and other record keeping systems and management controls fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. HSBC North America will continue the implementation of several high priority systems improvements and enhancements in 2009, each of which may present increased or additional operational risk that may not be known until their implementation is complete. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include: • computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages; • natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes; • events arising from local or regional politics, including terrorist acts; • unforeseen problems encountered while implementing major new computer systems; or • global pandemics, which could have a significant effect on our business operations as well as on HSBC affiliates world-wide. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers, an inability to collect our receivables in affected areas and other loss or liability to us. We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if an employee causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual intentionally sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including risks relating to break-downs or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could result in diminished ability by us to operate one or more of our businesses, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, all of which could materially adversely affect us. In a company as large and complex as ours, lapses or deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting are likely to occur from time to time. In recent years, instances of identity theft and fraudulent attempts to obtain personal and financial information from individuals and from companies that maintain such information pertaining to their customers have become more prevalent. Use of the internet for these purposes has also increased. Such acts can have the following possible impacts: • threaten the assets of our customers; • negatively impact customer credit ratings; • impact customers’ ability to repay loan balances; • increase costs for us to respond to such threats and to enhance its processes and systems to ensure maximum security of data; or • damage our reputation from public knowledge of intrusion into its systems and databases. In addition, there is the risk that our controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems could prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. Changes to operational practices from time to time could materially positively or negatively impact our performance and results. Such changes may include: • raising the minimum payment on credit card accounts; • determinations to acquire or sell credit card receivables, residential mortgage loans and other loans; • changes to our customer account management and risk management/ collection policies and practices; • increasing investment in technology, business infrastructure and specialized personnel; or • outsourcing of various operations. 18 HSBC USA Inc. Risk management. We seek to monitor and manage our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, market, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, including models and programs that predict loan delinquency and loss. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, and prepare contingency plans in anticipation of developments, those techniques and plans and the judgments that accompany their application are complex and cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Accordingly, our ability to successfully identify and manage all significant risks we face is an important factor that can significantly impact our results. Management projections, estimates and judgments. Our management is required to use certain estimates in preparing our financial statements, including accounting estimates to determine loan loss reserves, the fair market value of certain assets and liabilities, and reserves related to litigation, among other items. Loan loss reserve estimates and certain asset and liability valuations are judgmental and are influenced by factors outside our control. To the extent historical averages of the progression of loans into stages of delinquency and the amount of loss realized upon charge-off are not predictive of future losses and management is unable to accurately evaluate the portfolio risk factors not fully reflected in the historical model, unexpected additional losses could result. Similarly, to the extent assumptions employed in measuring fair value of assets and liabilities not supported by market prices or other observable parameters do not sufficiently capture their inherent risk, unexpected additional losses could result. Another example in which management judgment is significant is in the evaluation of the recognition of deferred tax assets and in the determination of whether there is a need for a related valuation allowance. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences related to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and for tax credits and state net operating losses. We evaluate our deferred tax assets for recoverability using a consistent approach based on available evidence, including our historical financial performance, projections of future taxable income, future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences and any carryback availability. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets and record a charge to income or shareholders’ equity if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future taxable income based on management approved business plans, future capital requirements and ongoing tax planning strategies, including capital support from HSBC as a necessary part of such plans and strategies. This process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period. The recognition of deferred tax assets requires management to make significant judgments about future earnings, the periods in which items will impact taxable income, and the application of inherently complex tax laws. Included in our forecasts are assumptions regarding our estimate of future expected credit losses. The use of different estimates can result in changes in the amounts of deferred tax items recognized, which can result in equity and earnings volatility because such changes are reported in current period earnings. Based on our forecasts of future taxable income, we currently anticipate that it is more likely than not that our results of future operations will generate sufficient taxable income to allow us to realize our deferred tax assets. However, if future events differ from our current forecasts, a valuation allowance may need to be established, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and capital position. See Note 19, “Income Taxes” in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of our deferred taxes/assets. Changes in accounting standards. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and the results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”), the SEC and our bank regulators, including the Office of Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve, change the financial accounting and reporting standards and guidance that govern the preparation and disclosure of external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report and disclose our financial results and condition, including our segment results. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. We may, in certain instances, change a business practice in order to comply with new or revised standards. 19 HSBC USA Inc. Employee retention. Our employees are our most important resource and, in many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. If we were unable to continue to attract and retain qualified key employees to support the various functions of our businesses, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. The significant losses recognized by the Company and the expectation of continued weakness in the general economy could raise concerns about key employees’ compensation and promotional opportunities. The current weakness in the employment market generally, and in financial services in particular, mitigates the risk of employee turnover to some extent. However, if key personnel were to leave us and equally knowledgeable or skilled personnel are unavailable in HSBC to fill these roles, our ability to manage through the difficult economy may be hindered or impaired. Reputational risk. Our ability to attract and retain customers and conduct business transactions with our counterparties could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation, or the reputation of affiliates operating under the HSBC brand, is damaged. Our failure to address, or to appear to fail to address, various issues that could give rise to reputational risk could cause harm to us and our business prospects. Reputational issues include, but are not limited to: • appropriately addressing potential conflicts of interest; • legal and regulatory requirements; • ethical issues; • adequacy of anti-money laundering processes; • privacy issues; • record keeping; • sales and trading practices; • the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in products offered; and • general company performance. The failure to address these issues appropriately could make our customers unwilling to do business with us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Pension Risk. Effective January 1, 2005, our previously separate qualified defined benefit pension plan was combined with that of HSBC Finance’s into a single HSBC North America qualified defined benefit plan. We are responsible for providing approximately 60% of the financial support required by the plan. In 2008, the plan had allocated assets between three primary strategies: domestic equities, international equities and fixed income. During this period, domestic and international equity indices declined between 30% and 45% while interest rates also declined. The combination of negative equity returns and positive fixed income returns resulted in an overall reduction in plan assets of 24% in 2008. This decline, when combined with an increase in the projected benefit obligation, resulted in an under-funded status as defined by the Pension Protection Act (“PPA”). The projected benefit obligation and the accumulated benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of the plan assets by $1.0 billion and $760 million, respectively, at December 31, 2008. As this obligation relates to the HSBC North America pension plan, only a portion of this deficit should be considered our responsibility. We and other HSBC North American affiliates with employees participating in this plan will be required to make up this shortfall over a number of years as specified under the PPA. This can be accomplished through direct contributions, appreciation in plan assets and/or increases in interest rates resulting in lower liability valuations. Further reductions in plan asset values and/or reductions in interest rates could increase the under-funded status of the plan and require us to provide additional financial support. Acquisition Integration. We have in the past, and may again in the future, seek to grow our business by acquiring other businesses or loan portfolios. There can be no assurance that acquisitions will have the anticipated positive results, including results relating to: • the total cost of integration; • the time required to complete the integration; • the amount of longer-term cost savings; or • the overall performance of the combined entity. 20 HSBC USA Inc. Integration of an acquired business can be complex and costly, and may sometimes include combining relevant accounting, data processing and other record keeping systems and management controls, as well as managing relevant relationships with clients, suppliers and other business partners, as well as with employees. There is no assurance that any businesses or portfolios acquired in the future will be successfully integrated and will result in all of the positive benefits anticipated. If we are not able to successfully integrate acquisitions, there is the risk that its results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff that have been outstanding for more than 180 days at December 31, 2008. 