Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion provides a description of some of the important risk factors that could affect our actual results and could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in public statements or documents. However, other factors besides those discussed below or elsewhere in other of our reports filed with or furnished to the SEC could affect our business or results. Therefore, the risk factors below should not be considered a complete list of all potential risks that we may face.The current uncertain market and economic conditions may continue to affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business and earnings are affected by general business, economic and market conditions in the United States and abroad. Given our concentration of business activities in the United States, we are particularly exposed to any additional turmoil in the economy, housing downturns, high unemployment, tighter credit conditions and reduced economic growth. While the U.S. economy continued to slowly improve during 2013, growth has remained muted. We also have a significant number of customers in Latin America, which continues to experience inflation and other economic challenges. General business, economic and market conditions that could continue to affect us include: •pressure on consumer confidence and consumer spending from other economic and market conditions;•slow economic growth and the pace and magnitude of the recovery;•fiscal policy;•unemployment levels;•volatility in energy prices;•wage income levels and declines in wealth;•market value of residential and commercial real estate throughout the United States;•inflation;•monetary supply and monetary policy, including an exit from quantitative easing;•fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets in which we fund our operations;•unexpected geopolitical events;•fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar;•short-term and long-term interest rates;•availability of liquidity;•tight consumer credit conditions;•higher bankruptcy filings; and•new laws, regulations or regulatory and law enforcement initiatives.In a challenging economic environment, more of our customers are likely to, or have in fact, become delinquent on their loans or other obligations as compared with historical periods as many of our customers experience reductions in cash flow available to service their debt. These delinquencies, in turn, have adversely affected our earnings. The problems in the housing markets in the United States in the last six years have been exacerbated by continued high unemployment rates. If businesses remain cautious to hire, additional losses could be significant in all types of our consumer loans, including credit cards, due to decreased consumer income. While the U.S. economy continued to slowly improve in 2013, gross domestic product continued at a level well below the economy's potential growth rate. Concerns about the future of the U.S. economy, including the pace and magnitude of recovery from the recent economic recession, consumer confidence, fiscal policy, volatility in energy prices, credit market volatility including the ability to resolve various global financial issues and trends in corporate earnings will continue to influence the U.S. economic recovery and the capital markets. In the event economic conditions stop improving or become depressed and lead to a recession, there would be a significant negative impact on delinquencies, charge-offs and losses in all loan portfolios with a corresponding impact on our results of operations. While the recovery may be positive in the United States, it can have a simultaneous negative effect on currencies and stock markets in emerging economies such as those in Latin America, which could have a negative impact on our loan portfolio for our Latin American clients, with a corresponding impact on our results of operations.The housing market continued to strengthen in 2013 with overall home prices moving higher in many regions as demand increased and the supply of homes for sale remained restricted. However, the sharp decline in the number of foreclosed home sales currently being experienced, which is contributing to the increase in home sale prices, may not continue as the impact of servicers resuming foreclosure activities and the listing of the underlying properties for sale along with the recent increases in mortgage interest rates could slow down future price gains. In addition, certain courts and state legislatures have issued new rules or statutes relating to foreclosures. Scrutiny of foreclosure documentation has increased in some courts. Also, in some areas, officials are requiring additional verification of information filed prior to the foreclosure proceeding. The combination of these factors has led to a 18HSBC USA Inc.significant backlog of foreclosures which will take time to resolve. If a significant number of foreclosures come to market at the same time, due to the backlog or other delays in processing, it could have an adverse impact upon home prices.Mortgage lenders have substantially tightened lending standards since 2007. Furthermore, our loan portfolio was impacted by the declining home values and erosion of homeowner's equity and the resulting difficulty some borrowers had refinancing their mortgages, particularly in cases where government programs for high loan to value refinancing were not available. This, in turn, impacted both credit performance and run-off rates and has resulted in elevated delinquency rates for real estate secured loans in our portfolio. Additionally, depressed property values in many markets have resulted in higher loss severities on homes that are foreclosed and remarketed. A deterioration in business and economic conditions, which may erode consumer and investor confidence levels or increased volatility of financial markets, also could adversely affect financial results for our fee-based businesses, including our financial planning products and services. Federal, state and other similar international measures to regulate the financial industry may significantly impact our operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment. Changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting banking, derivatives, capital, liquidity, consumer credit, bankruptcy, privacy, consumer protection or other matters, including changes in tax rates, could materially impact our operations and performance. Attempts by local, state and national regulatory agencies to address perceived problems with the mortgage lending and credit card industries and, more recently, to address additional perceived problems in the financial services industry generally through broad or targeted legislative or regulatory initiatives aimed at lenders’ operations in consumer lending markets, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of products we can offer, how these products may be originated, the fees and charges that may be applied to accounts and how accounts may be collected or security interests enforced. Any one or more of these effects could negatively impact our results. There is also significant focus on loss mitigation and foreclosure activity for real estate loans. We cannot fully anticipate the response by national regulatory agencies, state Attorneys General, or certain legislators, or if significant changes to our operations and practices will be required as a result. The Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB which has broad authority to regulate providers of credit, payment and other consumer financial products and services. In addition, provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may also narrow the scope of federal preemption of state consumer laws and expand the authority of state Attorneys General to bring actions to enforce federal consumer protection legislation. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act's potential expansion of the authority of state Attorneys General to bring actions to enforce federal consumer protection legislation, we could potentially be subject to additional state lawsuits and enforcement actions, thereby further increasing our legal and compliance costs. Although we are unable to predict what specific measures the CFPB may take in applying its regulatory mandate, any new regulatory requirements or changes to existing requirements that the CFPB may promulgate could require changes in our consumer businesses, result in increased compliance costs and impair the profitability of such businesses.Under the Dodd-Frank Act, certain of our affiliates and subsidiaries, including HSBC Bank USA, have registered as swap dealers and are now subject to extensive oversight by the CFTC. Regulation of swap dealers by the CFTC imposes numerous corporate governance, business conduct, capital, margin, reporting, clearing, execution and other regulatory requirements on HSBC Bank USA which may adversely affect our derivatives business and make us less competitive or make certain derivative products less profitable to undertake. Although many significant regulations applicable to swap dealers are already in effect, we are unable at this time to determine the full impact of these requirements. The Dodd Frank Act also required the U.S regulatory agencies to adopt rules to implement the Volcker Rule, which is intended in part to prohibit institutions such as HSBC USA from engaging in proprietary trading or from acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in, or sponsoring or having certain relationships with, a hedge fund or private equity fund subject to certain exemptions. A final rule implementing the Volcker Rule was finalized on December 10, 2013 although the rule’s conformance period has been extended to July 2015. The final rule will require extensive regulatory interpretation and supervisory oversight, including coordination of this interpretive guidance and oversight among the U.S. regulatory agencies implementing the rules. While the final Volcker Rule contains exceptions for market-making, underwriting, risk-mitigating hedging, and certain transactions on behalf of customers and activities in certain asset classes, the parameters of these exceptions and requirements are unclear. Trading activities engaged in by HSBC USA will be subject to restrictions designed to ensure compliance with the final Volcker Rule and subject to the development of extensive compliance policies and procedures. The final Volcker Rule also restricts acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in, or sponsoring or having certain relationships with, “covered funds”, which generally include entities that would be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, but for the exemptions provided in Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of such Act, as well as certain commodity pools. The final Volcker Rule includes exemptions, among others, for certain limited investments in conjunction with asset management activities for customers, for loan securitizations, for asset-backed commercial paper conduits, and for underwriting and market making in covered funds. As with the proprietary trading restrictions, the exemptions are generally subject to a variety of compliance requirements and conditions. Any limited, yet permissible, investments in covered funds are required to be deducted from the Tier 1 capital of banking entities. The final Volcker 19HSBC USA Inc.Rule also requires an extensive array of compliance policies, procedures and quantitative metrics reporting to ensure that activities remain within one or more of the exemptions described in the final Volcker Rule. Compliance with the Volcker Rule could increase our operational and compliance costs, reduce our trading revenues, and adversely affect our results of operations.The FRB has also issued proposed rules to implement enhanced supervisory and prudential requirements and the early remediation requirements established under the Dodd-Frank Act. The enhanced standards include risk-based capital and leverage requirements, liquidity standards, requirements for overall risk management, single-counterparty credit limits, and stress test requirements. The FRB has issued final rules requiring covered entities to undergo annual stress tests conducted by the FRB and conduct their own “company-run” stress tests twice a year in conjunction with the CCAR program. Final regulations addressing the remaining items have not yet been adopted, and are likely to impose additional operational and compliance costs on us once they are finalized.Our indirect parent, HSBC North America, is subject to assessment by the FRB as part of the CCAR program. CCAR is an annual exercise by the FRB to ensure that institutions have forward-looking capital planning processes that account for their risks and sufficient capital to continue operations throughout times of economic and financial stress. We cannot be certain that the FRB will have no objections to our future capital plans submitted through the CCAR program. If we do not pass the CCAR review it could adversely affect our ability to make distributions, including dividends on our preferred stock and trust preferred securities, or to enter into acquisitions. HSBC Bank USA is also required under the Dodd Frank Act to undergo the “DFAST,” an annual company-run stress test that runs concurrently with, and is submitted at the same time as, CCAR. The DFAST is based on the OCC’s stress scenario assumptions that are appropriate for the economic conditions assumed in each scenario. HSBC Bank USA is required to publish the results of the DFAST. If our stress testing projections differ significantly from our peers or the FRB objects to HSBC North America’s capital plan, this could have a material adverse effect on our reputation since CCAR and DFAST results are made public. See also "Our reputation has a direct impact on our financial results and ongoing operations" below. The total impact of the Dodd-Frank Act cannot be fully assessed without taking into consideration how non-U.S. policymakers and regulators will respond to the Dodd-Frank Act and the implementing regulations under the legislation, and how the cumulative effects of both U.S. and non-U.S. laws and regulations will affect our businesses and operations. Additional legislative or regulatory actions in the U.S., the European Union ("EU") or in other countries could result in a significant loss of revenue, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in which we might otherwise consider engaging, affect the value of assets that we hold, require us to increase our prices and therefore reduce demand for our products, impose additional costs on us, or otherwise adversely affect our businesses. Accordingly, any such new or additional legislation or regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Regulators in the EU and in the United Kingdom ("U.K.") are in the midst of proposing far-reaching programs of financial regulatory reform. These proposals include enhanced capital, leverage, and liquidity requirements, changes in compensation practices (including tax levies), separation of retail and wholesale banking, the recovery and resolution of EU financial institutions, amendments to the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and the Market Abuse Directive, and measures to address systemic risk. Furthermore, certain large global systemically important banks ("G-SIBs"), including HSBC, will be subject to capital surcharges and other enhanced prudential requirements. While the Financial Stability Board has identified HSBC as one of the two G-SIBs that would be subject to a 2.5 percent surcharge, the G-SIB surcharge has not yet been formally implemented in the U.S. or the U.K.The implementation of regulations and rules promulgated by these bodies could result in additional costs or limit or restrict the way HSBC conducts its business in the EU and, in particular, in the U.K. Furthermore, the potentially far-reaching effects of future changes in laws, rules or regulations, or in their interpretation or enforcement as a result of EU or U.K. legislation and regulation are difficult to predict and could adversely affect HSBC USA’s operations. The transition to the new requirements under Basel III will continue to put significant pressure on regulatory capital and liquidity. HSBC North America is required to meet consolidated regulatory capital and liquidity requirements, including new or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance, in accordance with current regulatory timelines. In December 2010, the Basel Committee issued “Basel III: A global regulatory framework for more resilient banks and banking systems” (the “Basel III Capital Framework”) and “International framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards and monitoring” (the “Basel III Liquidity Framework”) (together, Basel III). In October 2013, the U.S. banking regulators published a final rule in the Federal Register implementing the Basel III Capital Framework and the Dodd-Frank Act’s phase-out of trust preferred securities from Tier 1 capital, which we refer to as the “Basel III Final Rule”. The Basel III Final Rule establishes new minimum capital and buffer requirements to be phased in by 2019 and also requires the deduction of certain assets from capital, within prescribed limitations, and the inclusion of accumulated other comprehensive income or "OCI" in capital. The Basel III Final Rule also increases capital requirements for counterparty credit risk. As of January 1, 2014, HSBC North America and HSBC Bank USA are required to begin complying with the effective portions of the Basel III Final Rule. The Basel III Final Rule will materially increase our regulatory capital requirements over the next several years.In addition to the Basel III Final Rule, there continue to be numerous proposals or potential proposals that could significantly impact the regulatory capital standards and requirements applicable to financial institutions such as HSBC North America, as well 20HSBC USA Inc.as our ability to meet these requirements. The Basel Committee has finalized a framework for domestic systemically important banks (“D-SIBs”) which is intended to supplement the G-SIB framework by imposing a capital buffer on certain banks that have an important impact on their domestic economies. While, the Basel III Final Rule did not address the adoption of a surcharge on D-SIBs, federal banking regulators noted that they are considering a capital surcharge for institutions with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, or some subset of such institutions, consistent with the Basel Committee’s surcharge proposals. In addition, the Basel Committee has proposed revisions to the Basel III Leverage ratio (known in the U.S. as the “supplementary leverage ratio” or "SLR") that, if adopted as proposed, would substantially increase the denominator of the Basel III Leverage ratio, primarily with regard to exposures for derivatives and securities financing transactions (“SFTs”), and could further increase the capital requirements applicable to HSBC North America and HSBC Bank USA. The FRB has also indicated it is considering proposals relating to the use of short-term wholesale funding by financial institutions, particularly SFTs, which could include a capital surcharge based on the institution’s reliance on such funding, and/or increased capital requirements applicable to SFT matched books. Accordingly, there continues to be significant uncertainty regarding significant portions of the capital regime that will apply to HSBC North America and, as a result, the ultimate impact of these capital requirements will have on our long term capital planning and the results of our operations.Further increases in regulatory capital may also be required in response to other U.S. supervisory requirements relating to capital. The exact amount, however, will depend upon our prevailing risk profile and that of our North America affiliates under various stress scenarios. Participation by HSBC North America in the Federal Reserve’s CCAR stress test process will also require that HSBC North America maintain sufficient capital to meet minimum regulatory ratios including a 5 percent Tier 1 common ratio (as defined by the Federal Reserve) over a nine-quarter forward-looking planning horizon, which could also require increased capital to withstand the application of the stress scenarios over the planning horizon. HSBC Bank USA is also required to participate in the OCC’s DFAST, that runs concurrently with, and is submitted at the same time as, the CCAR. These stress testing requirements are likely to influence our regulatory capital and liquidity planning process, and may impose additional operational and compliance costs on us. HSBC North America is also in the process of evaluating the Basel III Liquidity Framework and the U.S. proposed rules for liquidity risk management. The Basel Committee has proposed two minimum liquidity risk measures. The liquidity coverage ratio ("LCR") measures the amount of a financial institution’s unencumbered, high-quality, liquid assets relative to the net cash outflows the institution could encounter under a significant 30-day stress scenario. The net stable funding ratio ("NSFR") measures the amount of longer-term, stable sources of funding employed by a financial institution relative to the liquidity profiles of the assets funded and the potential for contingent calls on funding liquidity arising from off-balance sheet commitments and obligations over a one-year period. The Federal Reserve and the OCC have proposed rules to implement the LCR with stricter requirements and a faster implementation timeline than the Basel Committee has established. The U.S. regulators have not yet issued a proposal to implement the NSFR for U.S. banking organizations. HSBC USA may need to increase its liquidity profile to support HSBC North America's compliance with these future rules. Preparation for Basel III has influenced and is likely to continue to influence our regulatory capital and liquidity planning process, and is expected to impose additional operational and compliance costs on us. We are unable at this time to determine the extent of changes HSBC USA will need to make to its liquidity or capital position, if any, and what effect, if any, such changes will have on our results of operations or financial condition. New regulatory capital and liquidity requirements may limit or otherwise restrict how we utilize our capital and may require us to increase our capital or liquidity. Any requirement that we increase our regulatory capital, regulatory capital ratios or liquidity could require us to liquidate assets or otherwise change our business and/or investment plans, which may negatively affect our financial results.Regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions and requirements relating to conduct of business and financial crime could negatively affect our results and brand. Financial service providers are at risk of regulatory sanctions or fines related to conduct of business and financial crime. The incidence of regulatory proceedings and other adversarial proceedings against financial service firms is increasing. In December 2012, HSBC, HSBC North America and HSBC Bank USA entered into agreements to achieve a resolution with U.S. and U.K. government agencies regarding past inadequate compliance with AML/BSA and sanctions laws, including the previously reported investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice, the FRB, the OCC and FinCEN in connection with AML/BSA compliance, including cross-border transactions involving our cash handling business in Mexico and banknotes business in the U.S., and historical transactions involving parties subject to OFAC economic sanctions. As part of the resolution, HSBC and HSBC Bank USA entered into the five-year U.S. DPA with the U.S. Department of Justice, the United States Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York, and the United States Attorney's Office for the Northern District of West Virginia, and HSBC entered into the two-year DANY DPA with the New York County District Attorney, and HSBC consented to a cease and desist order and a monetary penalty order with the FRB. In addition, HSBC Bank USA entered into a monetary penalty consent order with FinCEN and a separate monetary penalty order with the OCC. HSBC also entered into an undertaking with the U.K. Financial Services Authority, now a FCA Direction, to comply with certain forward-looking obligations with respect to AML and sanctions requirements over a five-year term. 21HSBC USA Inc.Under these agreements, HSBC and HSBC Bank USA made payments totaling $1.921 billion to U.S. authorities, of which $1.381 billion was attributed to and paid by HSBC Bank USA, and are continuing to comply with ongoing obligations. Over the five-year term of the agreements with the U.S. Department of Justice and the FCA, an independent monitor (who also will be, for FCA purposes, a "skilled person" under Section 166 of the Financial Services and Markets Act) will evaluate HSBC's progress in fully implementing its obligations, and will produce regular assessments of the effectiveness of HSBC's compliance function. Michael Cherkasky was selected as the independent monitor and his monitorship is proceeding as anticipated and consistent with the timelines and requirements set forth in the relevant agreements. In July 2013, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York entered an order approving the U.S. DPA pursuant to the court's supervisory power and granting the parties' application to place the case in abeyance for five years. The court will maintain supervisory power over the implementation of the U.S. DPA while the case is in abeyance. If HSBC and HSBC Bank USA fulfill all of the requirements imposed by the U.S. DPA, the U.S. Department of Justice's charges against those entities will be dismissed at the end of the five-year period of that agreement. Similarly, if HSBC fulfills all of the requirements imposed by the DANY DPA, DANY's charges against it will be dismissed at the end of the two-year period of that agreement. The U.S. Department of Justice may prosecute HSBC or HSBC Bank USA in relation to the matters that are subject of the U.S. DPA if HSBC or HSBC Bank USA breaches the terms of the U.S. DPA, and DANY may prosecute HSBC in relation to the matters which are the subject of the DANY DPA if HSBC violates the terms of the DANY DPA. HSBC Bank USA, as dollar clearer for all U.S. dollar transactions for HSBC globally, manages a significant AML risk in the global correspondent banking area because of the breadth and scale of that area, especially as it relates to transactions involving affiliates and global correspondent banks in high risk AML jurisdictions. A significant AML violation in this area or the utilization of the global affiliate and correspondent banking network by terrorists or other perpetrators of financial crimes could have materially adverse consequences under the US DPA, the DANY DPA or our other consent agreements. The remediation of our AML risk is a key priority, however the design and execution of remediation plants is complex, requiring major investment in people, systems and other infrastructure. This complexity creates risk that the timeline for execution of some of our remediation activities could be delayed, which could impact our ability to satisfy our regulators on our progress regarding meeting certain of our obligations under the US DPA, the DANY DPA and our other consent agreements.In the event of the prosecution of criminal charges, there could be significant collateral consequences to HSBC and its affiliates, including potential restrictions on our ability to operate in the U.S., loss of business or licenses, withdrawal of funding and harm to our reputation, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, the settlement with regulators does not preclude private litigation relating to, among other things, HSBC's compliance with applicable anti-money laundering, BSA and sanctions laws, which, if determined adversely, may result in judgments, settlements or other results that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause serious reputational harm.Failure to comply with certain regulatory requirements would have an adverse material effect on our results and operations. As reflected in the GLBA Agreement entered into with the OCC on December 11, 2012, the OCC has determined that HSBC Bank USA is not in compliance with the requirements set forth in 12 U.S.C. § 24a(a)(2)(c) and 12 C.F.R. § 5.39(g)(1), which provide that a national bank and each depository institution affiliate of the national bank must be both well capitalized and well managed in order to own or control a financial subsidiary. As a result, HSBC USA and its parent bank holding companies no longer meet the qualification requirements for financial holding company status and may not engage in any new types of financial activities without the prior approval of the FRB. In addition, HSBC Bank USA may not directly or indirectly acquire control of, or hold an interest in, any new financial subsidiary, nor commence a new activity in its existing financial subsidiary, unless it receives prior approval from the OCC. If all of our affiliate depositary institutions are not in compliance with these requirements within the time periods specified in the GLBA Agreement, as they may be extended, HSBC USA could be required either to divest HSBC Bank USA or to divest or terminate any financial activities conducted in reliance on the GLB Act. Similar consequences could result for subsidiaries of HSBC Bank USA that engage in financial activities in reliance on expanded powers provided for in the GLB Act. Any such divestiture or termination of activities would have an adverse material effect on the consolidated results and operation of HSBC USA.We may incur additional costs and expenses in ensuring that we satisfy requirements relating to our mortgage foreclosure processes and the industry-wide delay in processing foreclosures may have a significant impact upon loss severity. As previously reported, HSBC Bank USA entered into the OCC Servicing Consent Order with the OCC and our affiliate, HSBC Finance Corporation, and our common indirect parent, HSBC North America entered into a similar consent order with the FRB following completion of a broad horizontal review of industry foreclosure practices. The OCC Servicing Consent Order requires HSBC Bank USA to take prescribed actions to address the foreclosure practice deficiencies described in the consent order. We continue to work with our regulators to align our processes with the requirements of the Servicing Consent Orders and implement operational changes as required. The Servicing Consent Orders required an independent review of foreclosures pending or completed between January 2009 and December 2010 to determine if any borrower 22HSBC USA Inc.was financially injured as a result of an error in the foreclosure process. We refer to this as the Independent Foreclosure Review. On February 28, 2013, HSBC Bank USA entered into an agreement with the OCC, and HSBC Finance Corporation and HSBC North America entered into an agreement with the FRB, which we refer to as the "IFR Settlement Agreements, pursuant to which the Independent Foreclosure Review ceased and HSBC North America made a cash payment of $96 million into a fund used to make payments to borrowers that were in active foreclosure during 2009 and 2010 and, in addition, is providing other assistance (e.g., loan modifications) to help eligible borrowers. As a result, in 2012, we recorded expenses of $19 million which reflects the portion of HSBC North America's total expense of $104 million that we believe is allocable to us. As of December 31, 2013, Rust Consulting, Inc., the paying agent, has issued almost all checks to eligible borrowers. See Note 28, "Litigation and Regulatory Matters," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion. While we believe compliance related costs have permanently increased to higher levels due to the remediation requirements of the Servicing Consent Orders, this settlement will positively impact compliance expenses in future periods as the significant resources working on the Independent Foreclosure Review are no longer required. In addition, the Servicing Consent Orders do not preclude additional enforcement actions against HSBC Bank USA or our affiliates by bank regulatory, governmental or law enforcement agencies, such as the Department of Justice or state Attorneys General, which could include the imposition of civil money penalties and other sanctions relating to the activities that are the subject of the Servicing Consent Orders. In addition, the settlement related to the Independent Foreclosure Review does not preclude future private litigation concerning these practices. Separate from the Servicing Consent Orders and the settlement related to the Independent Foreclosure Review discussed above, in February 2012, the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and state Attorneys General of 49 states announced a settlement with the five largest U.S. mortgage servicers with respect to foreclosure and other mortgage servicing practices. HSBC Bank USA, together with our affiliate HSBC Finance, have had discussions with U.S. bank regulators and other governmental agencies regarding a potential resolution, although the timing of any settlement is not presently known. We recorded an accrual of $38 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 (which was reduced by $6 million in the second quarter of 2013) reflecting the portion of the HSBC North America accrual that we currently believe is allocable to HSBC Bank USA. As this matter progresses and more information becomes available, we will continue to evaluate our portion of the HSBC North America liability which may result in a change to our current estimate. Any such settlement, however, may not completely preclude other enforcement actions by state or federal agencies, regulators or law enforcement agencies relating to foreclosure and other mortgage services practices, including, but not limited to, matters relating to the securitization of mortgages for investors, including the imposition of civil money penalties, criminal fines or other sanctions. In addition, these practices have in the past resulted in private litigation and such a settlement would not preclude private litigation concerning foreclosure and other mortgage servicing practices.Beginning in late 2010, we temporarily suspended all new foreclosure proceedings and in early 2011 temporarily suspended foreclosures in process where judgment had not yet been entered while we enhanced foreclosure documentation and processes for foreclosures and re-filed affidavits where necessary. We have resumed processing suspended foreclosure activities in substantially all states and have now referred the majority of the backlog of loans for foreclosure. We have also begun initiating new foreclosure activities in substantially all states. The number of new real estate owned ("REO") properties added to inventory will continue to be impacted due to certain states having foreclosure timelines that have extended.In addition, certain courts and state legislatures have issued new rules or statutes relating to foreclosures. Scrutiny of foreclosure documentation has increased in some courts. Also in some areas, officials are requiring additional verification of information filed prior to the foreclosure proceeding. The combination of these factors has led to a significant backlog of foreclosures which will take time to resolve. If these trends continue, there could be additional delays in the processing of foreclosures, which could have an adverse impact upon housing prices which is likely to result in higher loss severities while foreclosures are delayed.Our reputation has a direct impact on our financial results and ongoing operations. Our ability to attract and retain customers and conduct business transactions with our counterparties could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation, or the reputation of affiliates operating under the HSBC brand, is damaged. Our failure to address, or to appear to fail to address, various issues that could give rise to reputational risk could cause harm to us and our business prospects. Reputational issues include, but are not limited to:•negative news about us, HSBC or the financial services industry generally;•appropriately addressing potential conflicts of interest;•legal and regulatory requirements;•ethical issues, including alleged deceptive or unfair lending or pricing practices;•anti-money laundering and economic sanctions programs;•privacy issues;•fraud issues;•data security issues related to our customers or employees;23HSBC USA Inc.•cybersecurity issues and cyber incidents, whether actual, threatened, or perceived;•recordkeeping;•sales and trading practices;•customer service;•the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our businesses;•a downgrade of or negative watch warning on any of our credit ratings; and•general company performance.The proliferation of social media websites as well as the personal use of social media by our employees and others, including personal blogs and social network profiles, also may increase the risk that negative, inappropriate or unauthorized information may be posted or released publicly that could harm our reputation or have other negative consequences, including as a result of our employees interacting with our customers in an unauthorized manner in various social media outlets.The failure to address, or the perception that we have failed to address any of these issues appropriately could make our customers unwilling to do business with us or give rise to increased regulatory action, which could adversely affect our results of operations.Operational risks, such as systems disruptions or failures, data quality, breaches of security, cyberattacks, human error, the outsourcing of certain operations, changes in operational practices or inadequate controls may adversely impact our business and reputation. Operational risk is inherent in virtually all of our activities. While we have established and maintain an overall risk framework that is designed to balance strong corporate oversight with well-defined independent risk management, we continue to be subject to some degree of operational risk. For example, data quality is critical for our risk and compliance functions as well as for decision making and operational processes. Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process a large number of complex transactions, most of which involve, in some fashion, electronic devices or electronic networks. Lack of high quality data and effective reporting systems can impact all levels of management decision making, enterprise risk management, governance and our ability to meet our regulatory requirements. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing and other recordkeeping systems and management controls fail, are subject to cyberattack that compromises electronic devices or networks, or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. Also, in order to react quickly to or meet newly-implemented regulatory requirements, we may need to change or enhance systems within very tight time frames, which would increase operational risk.We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems infrastructure arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include:•computer viruses, electrical, telecommunications, or other essential utility outages;•cyberattacks, which are deliberate attempts to gain unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or impairing operational performance;•natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes;•events arising from local, regional or international politics, including terrorist acts;•unforeseen problems encountered while implementing major new computer systems or upgrades to existing systems; or•absence of operating systems personnel due to global pandemics or otherwise, which could have a significant effect on our business operations as well as on HSBC affiliates world-wide.Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers, an inability to collect our receivables in affected areas and other loss or liability to us.We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if an employee or employees, acting alone or in concert with non-affiliated third parties, causes a significant operational break-down or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems, including, without limitation, by means of cyberattack or denial-of-service attack. Third parties with which we do business could also be sources of operational risk to us, including risks relating to break-downs or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could diminish our ability to operate one or more of our businesses, potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, all of which could materially adversely affect us.In recent years, internet and other cyberattacks, identity theft and fraudulent attempts to obtain personal and financial information from individuals and from companies that maintain such information pertaining to their customers have become more prevalent. Such acts can affect our business by:•threatening the assets of our customers, potentially impacting our customer’s ability to repay loan balances and negatively impacting their credit ratings;24HSBC USA Inc.•causing us to incur remediation and other costs related to liability for customer or third parties for losses, repairs to remedy systems flaws, or incentives to customers and business partners to maintain and rebuild business relationships after the attack;•increasing our costs to respond to such threats and to enhance our processes and systems to ensure security of data; or•damaging our reputation from public knowledge of intrusion into our systems and databases.The threat from cyberattacks is a concern for our organization and failure to protect our operations from internet crime or cyberattacks may result in financial loss and loss of customer data or other sensitive information which could undermine our reputation and our ability to attract and keep customers. We face various cyber risks in line with other multinational organizations. During 2013, HSBC was subjected to several 'denial of service' attacks on our external facing websites across Europe, Latin America, Asia and North America. A denial of service attack is the attempt to intentionally paralyze a computer network by flooding it with data sent simultaneously from many individual computers. We experienced one significant global attack during which we were attacked by numerous individuals over a three hour period. Each attack lasted 15 to 20 minutes and used a different attack profile. During active attacks, customers were intermittently unable to access our websites. Although we received few complaints, there were three instances when access to HSBC websites was unavailable. While there was limited effect from all other attacks with services maintained and no data losses, there can be no assurance that future attacks will not result in service outages and the loss of data.In addition, there is the risk that our operating system controls as well as business continuity and data security systems could prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance.Changes to operational practices from time to time could materially positively or negatively impact our performance and results. Such changes may include:•our raising the minimum payment or fees to be charged on credit card accounts;•the decision to sell credit card receivables or our determining to acquire or sell residential mortgage loans and other loans;•changes to our customer account management and risk management/collection policies and practices;•our ability to attract and retain key employees;•our increasing investment in technology, business infrastructure and specialized personnel; •changes to our AML and sanctions policies and the related operations practices; or•our outsourcing of various operations.We depend on third-party suppliers, outsource providers and our affiliates for a variety of services. The OCC requires financial institutions to maintain a third party risk management program, which includes due diligence requirements for third parties as well as for our affiliates who may perform services for us. If our third party risk management and due diligence program is not sufficiently robust this could lead to regulatory intervention. If outsourcing services are interrupted or not performed or the performance is poor this could damage our reputation and our client relationships and adversely affect our operations and our business. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to evaluate our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We are required to disclose, in our annual report on Form 10-K, the existence of any "material weaknesses" in our internal control. In a company as large and complex as ours, lapses or deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting may occur from time to time and we cannot assure you that we will not find one or more material weaknesses as of the end of any given year.Continued economic uncertainty related to U.S. markets could negatively impact our business operations and our access to capital markets. Concerns regarding U.S. debt and budget matters have also caused uncertainty in financial markets. Although the U.S. debt limit was increased, a failure to raise the U.S. debt limit and the downgrading of U.S. debt ratings in the future could, in addition to causing economic and financial market disruptions, materially adversely affect our ability to access capital markets on favorable terms, as well as have other material adverse effects on the operations of our business and our financial results and condition. Additionally, macroeconomic or market concerns related to the lack of confidence in the U.S. credit and debt ratings may prompt outflows from our funds or accounts. The subsequent deterioration of consumer confidence may diminish the demand for the products and services of our consumer business, or increase the cost to provide such products and services.Federal Reserve Board policies can significantly affect business and economic conditions and our financial results and condition. The FRB regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. They also can materially affect the value of financial instruments we hold, such as debt securities and mortgage servicing rights ("MSRs"). Its policies also can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. 25HSBC USA Inc.Expectations that the scale of government repurchase schemes and quantitative easing measures may be reduced have resulted in more volatile market conditions. Changes in FRB policies are beyond our control and can be hard to predict.Our inability to meet funding requirements due to deposit attrition or credit ratings could impact operations. Our primary source of funding is deposits, augmented by issuance of commercial paper and term debt. Adequate liquidity is critical to our ability to operate our businesses. Despite the apparent improvements in overall market liquidity and our liquidity position, future conditions that could negatively affect our liquidity include:•an inability to attract or retain deposits;•diminished access to capital markets;•an increased interest rate environment for our commercial paper, deposits or term debt;•unforeseen cash or capital requirements;•an inability to sell assets; and•an inability to obtain expected funding from HSBC subsidiaries and clients.These conditions could be caused by a number of factors, including internal and external factors, such as, among others:•financial and credit market disruption;•volatility or lack of market or customer confidence in financial markets;•lack of market or customer confidence in HSBC or negative news about us or the financial services industry generally; and•other conditions and factors over which we have little or no control including economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad and concerns over potential government defaults and related policy initiatives, the potential failure of the U.S. to raise the debt limit and the ongoing European debt crisis.HSBC has provided capital support in the past and has indicated its commitment and capacity to fund the needs of the business in the future.Our credit ratings are an important part of maintaining our liquidity. Any downgrade in our credit ratings could potentially increase our borrowing costs, impact our ability to issue commercial paper and, depending on the severity of the downgrade, substantially limit our access to capital markets, require us to make cash payments or post collateral and permit termination by counterparties of certain significant contracts. Downgrades in our credit ratings also may trigger additional collateral or funding obligations which could negatively affect our liquidity, including as a result of credit-related contingent features in certain of our derivative contracts. On February 6, 2014, Standard and Poor's published a request for comment regarding proposed revisions to their treatment of Bank and Prudentially Regulated Finance Company Hybrid Capital Instruments. The adoption of any such revisions may unfavorably impact the ratings of our Preferred Stock, Trust Preferred securities and Subordinated Debt. Our "cross-selling" efforts to increase the number of products our customers buy from us and offer them all of the financial products that fulfill their needs is a key part of our growth strategy, and our failure to execute this strategy effectively could have a material adverse effect on our revenue growth and financial results. Selling more products to our customers - "cross-selling" - is very important to our business model and key to our ability to grow revenue and earnings especially during the current environment of slow economic growth and regulatory reform initiatives. Key among these cross-sell opportunities is the collaboration between CMB and GB&M, which is an area where many of our competitors also focus. In RBWM many of our competitors also focus on cross-selling, especially in retail banking and mortgage lending. In both instances, this can limit our ability to sell more products to our customers or influence us to sell our products at lower prices, reducing our net interest income and revenue from our fee-based products. It could also affect our ability to keep existing customers. New technologies could require us to spend more to modify or adapt our products to attract and retain customers. Our cross-sell strategy also is dependent on earning more business from our HSBC customers, and increasing our cross-sell ratio - or the average number of products sold to existing customers - may become more challenging.Changes in interest rates could reduce the value of our mortgage servicing rights and result in a significant reduction in earnings. As a residential mortgage servicer in the U.S., we have a portfolio of MSRs, which is in run-off. An MSR is the right to service a mortgage loan - collect principal, interest and escrow amounts - for a fee, which prior to the conversion of our mortgage processing and servicing operations to PHH Mortgage, we retained when we sold originated mortgage loans. Beginning with May 2013 applications, we now sell our agency eligible mortgage originations to PHH Mortgage on a servicing released basis which results in no new servicing rights being recognized. Prior to our strategic relationship with PHH Mortgage, MSRs were recognized as a separate and distinct asset at the time loans were sold. We initially valued MSRs at fair value at the time the related loans were sold and subsequently measure MSRs at fair value at each reporting date with changes in fair value reflected in earnings in the period that the changes occur. Fair value is the present value of estimated future net servicing income, calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. MSRs are subject to interest rate risk in that their fair value will fluctuate as a result of changes in the interest rate environment. When interest rates fall, borrowers are usually 26HSBC USA Inc.more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. As the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of our MSRs can decrease. Any decrease in the fair value of our MSRs will reduce earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs, which can result in earnings volatility. While interest rate risk is mitigated through an active hedging program, hedging instruments and models that we use may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged and, as a result, a reduction in the fair value of our MSRs could have a significant adverse impact on our earnings in a given period. Increased credit risk, including as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions, could require us to increase our provision for credit losses and allowance for credit losses and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. When we loan money or commit to loan money we incur credit risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans. The credit performance of our loan portfolios significantly affects our financial results and condition. If the current economic environment were to deteriorate, more of our customers may have difficulty in repaying their loans or other obligations which could result in a higher level of credit losses and provision for credit losses. We reserve for credit losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio (including unfunded credit commitments). The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions, including falling home prices and higher unemployment, or other factors. For example, changes in borrower behavior or the regulatory environment also could influence recognition of credit losses in the portfolio and our allowance for credit losses.While we believe that our allowance for credit losses was appropriate at December 31, 2013, there is no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover future credit losses, especially if housing and employment conditions worsen. In the event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, we may be required to build reserves in future periods, which would reduce our earnings.Financial difficulties or credit downgrades of mortgage and bond insurers may negatively affect our servicing and investment portfolios. Our servicing portfolio includes certain mortgage loans that carry some level of insurance from one or more mortgage insurance companies. To the extent that any of these companies experience financial difficulties or credit downgrades, we may be required, as servicer of the insured loan on behalf of the investor, to obtain replacement coverage with another provider, possibly at a higher cost than the coverage we would replace. We may be responsible for some or all of the incremental cost of the new coverage for certain loans depending on the terms of our servicing agreement with the investor and other circumstances, although we do not have an additional risk of repurchase loss associated with claim amounts for loans sold to third-party investors. Similarly, some of the mortgage loans we hold for investment or for sale carry mortgage insurance. If a mortgage insurer is unable to meet its credit obligations with respect to an insured loan, we might incur higher credit losses if replacement coverage is not obtained. We also have investments in municipal bonds that are guaranteed against loss by bond insurers. The value of these bonds and the payment of principal and interest on them may be negatively affected by financial difficulties or credit downgrades experienced by the bond insurers.The financial condition of our clients and counterparties, including other financial institutions, could adversely affect us. A significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of our counterparties could lead to concerns in the market about the credit quality of other counterparties in the same industry, thereby exacerbating our credit risk exposure, and increasing the losses (including mark-to-market losses) that we could incur in our market-making and clearing businesses.Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of market-making, trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. HSBC routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by the counterparty or client. When such a client becomes bankrupt or insolvent, we may become entangled in significant disputes and litigation with the client's bankruptcy estate and other creditors or involved in regulatory investigations, all of which can increase our operational and litigation costs.During periods of market stress or illiquidity, our credit risk also may be further increased when it cannot realize the fair value of the collateral held by it or when collateral is liquidated at prices that are not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan, derivative or other exposure due to us. Further, disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral significantly increase in times of market stress and illiquidity. We may incur additional costs and expenses relating to mortgage loan repurchases and other mortgage loan securitization-related activities. In connection with our loan sale and securitization activities with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the "Government Sponsored Entities" or "GSEs") and loan sale and private-label securitization transactions, HUSI has made representations and warranties that the loans sold meet certain requirements. For transactions with the GSEs, these representations include type of collateral, underwriting standards, validity of certain borrower representations in connection with the loan, that primary mortgage insurance is in force for any mortgage loan with a loan-to-value ratio ("LTV") greater than 80 percent, and the use of the GSEs’ standard legal documentation. We may be, and have been, required to repurchase loans and/or indemnify the GSEs and other private investors for losses due to breaches of these representations and warranties.27HSBC USA Inc.In estimating our repurchase liability arising from breaches of representations and warranties, we consider several factors, including the level of outstanding repurchase demands in inventory and our historical defense rate, the level of outstanding requests for loan files and the related historical repurchase request conversion rate and defense rate, the level of potential future demands based on historical conversion rates of loans for which we have not received a loan file request but are two or more payments delinquent or expected to become delinquent at an estimated conversion rate and any settlements reached with our counterparties. While we believe that our current repurchase liability reserves are adequate, the factors referred to above are dependent on economic factors, investor demand strategies, housing market trends and other circumstances, which are beyond our control and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that such reserves will not need to be increased in the future.We have also been involved as a sponsor/seller of loans used to facilitate whole loan securitizations underwritten by our affiliate, HSI, and serve as trustee of various securitization trusts. Participants in the U.S. mortgage securitization market that purchased and repackaged whole loans have been the subject of lawsuits and governmental and regulatory investigations and inquiries, which have been directed at groups within the U.S. mortgage market, such as servicers, originators, underwriters, trustees or sponsors of securitizations, and at particular participants within these groups. As the industry's residential foreclosure issues continue, HSBC Bank USA has taken title to an increasing number of foreclosed homes as trustee on behalf of various securitization trusts. As nominal record owner of these properties, HSBC Bank USA has been sued by municipalities and tenants alleging various obligations of law, including laws regarding property upkeep and tenants' rights. While we believe and continue to maintain that the obligations at issue and any related liability are properly those of the servicer of each trust, we continue to receive significant and adverse publicity in connection with these and similar matters, including foreclosures that are serviced by others in the name of "HSBC, as trustee." We expect this level of focus will continue and, potentially, intensify, so long as the U.S. real estate markets continue to be distressed. As a result, we may be subject to additional litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny related to our participation in the U.S. mortgage securitization market, either individually or as a member of a group. Lawsuits and regulatory investigations and proceedings may continue and increase in the current economic and regulatory environment. In the ordinary course of business, HSBC USA and its affiliates are routinely named as defendants in, or as parties to, various legal actions and proceedings relating to our current and/or former operations and are subject to governmental and regulatory examinations, information-gathering requests, investigations and formal and informal proceedings, as described in Note 28, "Litigation and Regulatory Matters," certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions and other relief. There is no certainty that the litigation will decrease in the near future, especially in the event of continued high unemployment rates, a resurgent recession or additional regulatory and law enforcement investigations and proceedings by federal and state governmental agencies. Further, in the current environment of heightened regulatory scrutiny, particularly in the financial services industry, there may be additional regulatory investigations and reviews conducted by banking and other regulators, including the CFPB, state Attorneys General or state regulatory and law enforcement agencies that, if determined adversely, may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results, including additional compliance requirements, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause serious reputational harm. See "Regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions and requirements relating to conduct of business and financial crime could negatively affect our results and brand" and "We may incur additional costs and expenses in ensuring that we satisfy requirements relating to our mortgage foreclosure processes and the industry-wide delay in processing foreclosures may have a significant impact upon loss severity" above.We establish reserves for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. We may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not established a reserve. In addition, the actual cost of resolving a legal claim may be substantially higher than any amounts reserved for that matter. The ultimate resolution of a pending legal proceeding, depending on the remedy sought and granted, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Changes in the method of determining the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or other reference rates may adversely impact the value of debt securities and other financial instruments we hold or issue that are linked to such reference rates and could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. As a result of concerns about the accuracy of the calculation of the daily LIBOR, a number of British Bankers’ Association (the "BBA") member banks entered into settlements with their regulators and law enforcement agencies with respect to alleged manipulation of LIBOR, and there are ongoing investigations by regulators and governmental authorities in various jurisdictions. Following a review of LIBOR conducted at the request of the U.K. Government, on September 28, 2012, recommendations for reforming the setting and governing of LIBOR were released (the "Wheatley Review"). The Wheatley Review made a number of recommendations for changes with respect to LIBOR, including the introduction of statutory regulation of LIBOR, the transfer of responsibility for LIBOR from the BBA to an independent administrator, changes to the method of compilation of lending rates and new regulatory oversight and enforcement mechanisms for rate-setting and a reduction in the number of currencies and tenors for which LIBOR is published. Based on the Wheatley Review and on a subsequent public and governmental consultation process, on March 25, 2013, the U.K. Financial Services Authority published final rules for the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority’s regulation and supervision of LIBOR (the "FCA Rules"). In particular, the FCA Rules include requirements that (1) an independent LIBOR administrator monitor and survey 28HSBC USA Inc.LIBOR submissions to identify breaches of practice standards and/or potentially manipulative behavior, and (2) firms submitting data to LIBOR establish and maintain a clear conflicts of interest policy and appropriate systems and controls. The FCA Rules took effect on April 2, 2013. NYSE Euronext Rate Administration Ltd. has been appointed as the independent LIBOR administrator, effective in early 2014. Similar changes may occur with respect to other reference rates. Accordingly, it is not currently possible to determine whether, or to what extent, any such changes would impact the value of any debt securities we hold or issue that are linked to LIBOR or other reference rates, or any loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit we hold or are due to us, or for which we are an obligor, that are linked to LIBOR or other reference rates, or whether, or to what extent, such changes would impact our financial condition or results of operations.Regulatory requirements in the U.S. and in non-U.S. jurisdictions to facilitate the future orderly resolution of large financial institutions could negatively impact our business structures, activities and practices. The Dodd-Frank Act requires HSBC as a foreign bank holding company and our ultimate parent to prepare and submit annually a plan for the orderly resolution of the U.S. businesses under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of future material financial distress or failure. The Dodd-Frank Act focuses on reducing risks to the U.S. financial system, requiring a plan to demonstrate how the relevant entities can be resolved in a "rapid and orderly" fashion in a manner that avoids systemic risks. Similarly, HSBC Bank USA must prepare and submit an annual resolution plan under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. HSBC Bank USA is required to regularly provide a plan to the FDIC that is executable for resolving the bank in the event of its failure that protects depositors, maximizes the net present value return on assets and minimizes the amount of any losses to creditors, including the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund. These plans must include information on resolution strategy, major counterparties and "interdependencies," among other things, and require substantial effort, time and cost across all of our businesses and geographies. These resolution plans are subject to review by the FRB and the FDIC. If the FRB and the FDIC both determine that these resolution plans are not "credible" (which, although not defined, is generally believed to mean the regulators do not believe the plans are feasible or would otherwise allow the regulators to resolve the U.S. businesses in a way that protects systemically important functions without severe systemic disruption and without exposing taxpayers to loss), and we do not remedy the deficiencies within the required time period, we could be required to restructure or reorganize businesses, legal entities, or operational systems and intracompany transactions in ways that could negatively impact operations, or be subject to restrictions on growth. We could also eventually be subjected to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements, or be required to divest certain assets or operations. Management projections, estimates and judgments based on historical performance may not be indicative of our future performance. Our management is required to use certain estimates in preparing our financial statements, including accounting estimates to determine loan loss reserves, reserves related to litigation, deferred tax assets and the fair market value of certain assets and liabilities, including goodwill and intangibles, among other items. In particular, loan loss reserve estimates and certain asset and liability valuations are subject to management’s judgment and actual results are influenced by factors outside our control. To the extent historical averages of the progression of loans into stages of delinquency or the amount of loss realized upon charge-off are not predictive of future losses and management is unable to accurately evaluate the portfolio risk factors not fully reflected in historical models, unexpected additional losses could result. Similarly, to the extent assumptions employed in measuring fair value of assets and liabilities not supported by market prices or other observable parameters do not sufficiently capture their inherent risk, unexpected additional losses could result.We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets and record a charge to income or shareholders’ equity if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future taxable income based on management approved business plans, future capital requirements and ongoing tax planning strategies, including capital support from HSBC necessary as part of such plans and strategies. This evaluation process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period. The recognition of deferred tax assets requires management to make significant judgments about future earnings, the periods in which items will impact taxable income, future corporate tax rates, and the application of inherently complex tax laws. The use of different estimates can result in changes in the amounts of deferred tax items recognized, which can result in equity and earnings volatility because such changes are reported in current period earnings. See Note 17, "Income Taxes," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of our deferred tax assets.Changes in accounting standards are beyond our control and may have a material impact on how we report our financial results and condition. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB"), the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB"), the SEC and our bank regulators, including the OCC and the FRB, change the financial accounting and reporting standards, or the interpretation thereof, and guidance that govern the preparation and disclosure of external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report and disclose our financial results and condition, including our segment results. For example, the FASB's financial instruments project could, 29HSBC USA Inc.among other things, significantly change how we value our receivables portfolio, which could also affect the level of deferred tax assets that we recognize. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. We may, in certain instances, change a business practice in order to comply with new or revised standards.The exposure to certain countries in the eurozone may adversely impact our earnings. Eurozone countries are members of the EU and part of the euro single currency bloc. The peripheral eurozone countries are those that exhibited levels of market volatility that exceeded other eurozone countries, demonstrating fiscal or political uncertainty which may persist into 2014. In 2013, in spite of improvements through austerity and structural reforms, the peripheral countries of Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain continued to exhibit a high ratio of sovereign debt to gross domestic product and excessive fiscal deficits. During 2013, we continued to monitor and reduce where appropriate our overall net exposure to counterparties domiciled in other eurozone countries that had exposures to sovereign and/or banks in peripheral eurozone countries of sufficient size to threaten their on-going viability in the event of an unfavorable conclusion to the current crisis. However, we continue to be exposed to certain eurozone related risk as it relates to governments and central banks of selected eurozone countries with near/quasi government agencies, banks and other financial institutions and other corporates. Given that the recent fiscal or political instability while improved is not completely ameliorated for many of these countries, it is possible that our continued exposure to these economies may adversely impact our earnings.Key employees may be difficult to retain due to contraction of the business and limits on promotional activities. Our employees are our most important resource and, in many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. If we were unable to continue to attract and retain qualified key employees to support the various functions of our businesses, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. Our financial performance, reductions in variable compensation and other benefits could raise concerns about key employees’ future compensation and opportunities for promotion. As economic conditions improve, we may face increased difficulty in retaining top performers and critical skilled employees. If key personnel were to leave us and equally knowledgeable or skilled personnel are unavailable within the HSBC Group or could not be sourced in the market, our ability to manage our business, in particular through any future difficult economic environment may be hindered or impaired.Significant reductions in pension assets may require additional financial contributions from us. Effective January 1, 2005, our previously separate qualified defined benefit pension plan was combined with that of HSBC Finance’s into a single HSBC North America qualified defined benefit plan. At December 31, 2010, the defined benefit plan was frozen, significantly reducing future benefit accruals. At December 31, 2013, plan assets were lower than projected plan liabilities resulting in an under-funded status. The accumulated benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of the plan assets by approximately $457 million. As these obligations relate to the HSBC North America pension plan, only a portion of this deficit could be considered our responsibility. We and other HSBC North America affiliates with employees participating in this plan will be required to make up this shortfall over a number of years as specified under the Pension Protection Act. This can be accomplished through direct contributions, appreciation in plan assets and/or increases in interest rates resulting in lower liability valuations. See Note 21, "Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information concerning the HSBC North America defined benefit plan.We may not be able to meet regulatory requests for data. New regulatory requirements necessitate more frequent reporting, which requires accurate, consistent and timely management information and analysis to be produced. Inadequate management information systems or processes could lead to a failure to meet our regulatory reporting obligations or other internal or external information demands.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.30HSBC USA Inc.