Item 1A. Risk Factors For an enterprise as large and complex as ours, a wide range of factors could materially affect future developments and performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations, identified elsewhere in this report, the most significant factors affecting our operations include the following: We derive the majority of our revenues from marketing and advertising spending by businesses, which is affected by numerous factors. Declines in advertising revenues will adversely affect the profitability of our business. Approximately 76% and 78% of our revenues in 2008 and 2007, respectively, were derived from marketing and advertising spending by businesses operating in the United States. 11 Table of Contents The demand for advertising in our newspapers or on our television stations is sensitive to a number of factors, both nationally and locally, including the following: • Seasonal nature of advertising and marketing spending by our customers can be subject to seasonal and cyclical variations. • Television advertising revenues in even-numbered years benefit from political advertising. • General economic conditions in the US and the local economies in which we operate our local media franchises. Three of the states that have been hardest hit by the current recession are Michigan (the location of our largest television station), Ohio (location of two of our television stations) and Florida (from which we derive significant newspaper and television revenues and operating profits). • The size and demographics of the audience reached by advertisers. Continued declines in our newspaper circulation could have an effect on the rate and volume of advertising, which are dependent on the size and demographics of the audience we provide to our advertisers. Television audiences have also fragmented in recent years as the broad distribution of cable and satellite television has greatly increased the options available to the viewing public. In addition, technological advancements in the video, telecommunications and data services industry are occurring rapidly. Advances in technologies such as personal video recorders, video-on-demand and streaming video on broadband Internet connections enable viewers to time-shift programming or to skip commercial messages. • Increasingly intense competition with digital media platforms. The popularity of the Internet and low barriers to entry have led to a wide variety of alternatives available to advertisers and consumers. • Internet sites dedicated to help-wanted, real estate and automotive have become significant competitors for classified advertising. Entities with a large Internet presence are entering the classified market, heightening the risk of continued erosion. • Our television stations have significant exposure to automotive advertising. In 2008, 18% and in 2007 24% of our total advertising in the television segment was from the automotive category. If we are unable to respond to any or all these factors our advertising revenues could decline which would affect our profitability. The model for profitably operating a newspaper may change more rapidly than the Company’s ability to adjust. The profile of our newspaper audience has shifted dramatically in recent years. While slow and steady declines in print readership have been offset by a consistently growing online viewership, online advertising rates traditionally have been much lower than print rates on a cost-per-thousand basis. This audience shift results in lower profit margins. Online advertising that is not tied to print classified ads is growing rapidly but is currently a very small percentage of our newspaper’s total revenue. If print advertising continues the downward trend of recent years and the audiences on digital platforms cannot be quickly monetized at higher levels we may not be able to profitably support the level of journalism expected by readers. A significant portion of our operating cost for the newspaper segment is newsprint, so an increase in price may adversely impact our operating results. Newsprint is a significant component of the operating cost of our newspaper operations comprising 14% of cost in 2008. The price of newsprint has historically been volatile, and increases in the price of newsprint could materially reduce our operating results. Increased programming costs could adversely affect our operating results. Television programming is one of the most significant costs for our television segment, comprising 20% of cost in 2008. We may be exposed to increased programming costs in the future which would affect our operating results. In addition, television networks have been seeking arrangements from their affiliates to share 12 Table of Contents networks’ programming costs and to change the structure of network compensation traditionally paid to broadcast affiliates. We cannot predict the nature or scope of any future compensation arrangements or their impact on our operations. The loss of affiliation agreements or the ability to secure or maintain distribution of our television stations’ signals could adversely affect our television stations’ results of operations. We own and operate ten television stations. Six of the stations are affiliated with ABC television network and three are affiliated with NBC television network. These television networks produce and distribute programming in exchange for each of our stations’ commitment to air the programming at specified times and for commercial announcement time during the programming. The non-renewal or termination of any of our network affiliation agreements, all of which expire in 2010, would prevent us from being able to carry programming of the relevant network. This loss of programming would require us to obtain replacement programming, which may involve higher costs and which may not be as attractive to our target audiences, resulting in reduced revenues. Our television stations may be at a competitive disadvantage if we fail to secure or maintain carriage of our stations’ signals over cable and/or direct broadcast satellite systems. Pursuant to the FCC rules, local television stations must elect every three years to either (1) require cable and/or direct broadcast satellite operators to carry the stations’ analog signals or (2) enter into retransmission consent negotiations for carriage. At present all of our stations except KMCI (which elects mandatory carriage), have retransmission consent agreements with the majority of cable operators and with both satellite providers. If our retransmission consent agreements are terminated or not renewed, or if our broadcast signals are distributed on less-favorable terms than our competitors, our ability to compete effectively may be adversely affected. If we cannot renew our FCC broadcast licenses, our broadcast operations will be impaired. Our television business depends upon maintaining our broadcast licenses from the FCC, which has the authority to revoke licenses, not renew them, or renew them only with significant qualifications, including renewals for less than a full term. Although we expect to renew all our FCC licenses, we cannot assure investors that our pending or future renewal applications will be approved, or that the renewals will not include conditions or qualifications that could adversely affect our operations. If the FCC fails to renew any of our licenses, it could prevent us from operating the affected stations. If the FCC renews a license with substantial conditions or modifications (including renewing the license for a term of fewer than eight years), it could have a material adverse effect on the affected station’s revenue-generation potential. Macro economic factors may impede access to or increase the cost of financing our operations and investments. Our ability to meet the covenants in our debt agreement may affect our ability to borrow under our Revolving Credit Agreement. Changes in U.S. and global financial markets, including market disruptions and significant interest rate fluctuations, may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or increase the cost of obtaining financing. Our Revolving Credit Agreement allows borrowings up to a maximum of 3.0 times our EBITDA (adjusted for non-cash charges). At December 31, 2008, the full amount ($200 million) of the Revolver was available to us under the covenants. Based on our current projections, the amount available in 2009 will be less than the full amount of the Revolver, but, in our estimation, will be adequate to meet our anticipated requirements for the year. If we do not meet our EBITDA projections and therefore exceed our borrowing limit as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreement, we would have to seek waivers or amendments to the Revolver. Given the current financing environment, we cannot be assured of a favorable outcome. 13 Table of Contents Sustained increases in costs of pension and employee health and welfare benefits may reduce our profitability. Employee compensation and benefits account for approximately 49% of our total operating expenses. In recent years, we have experienced significant increases in these costs as a result of macro economic factors beyond our control, including increases in health care costs, declines in investment returns on pension plan assets and changes in discount rates used to calculate pension and related liabilities. At least some of these macro economic factors may continue to put upward pressure on the cost of providing pension and medical benefits. Although we have actively sought to control increases in these costs, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting cost increases, and continued upward pressure could reduce the profitability of our businesses. In addition, our pension plans invest in a variety of equity and debt securities, many of which have been negatively affected by the current disruption in the credit and capital markets. Our pension plans were underfunded (accumulated benefit obligation) by $142 million at December 31, 2008. Continued volatility and disruption in the stock markets could cause further declines in the asset values of our pension plans. If this occurs, we may need to make additional pension contributions above what is currently estimated, and our pension expense in future years may increase. We could suffer losses due to asset impairment charges. We test our goodwill and intangible assets, including FCC licenses, for impairment during the fourth quarter of every year, and on an interim date should factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim test, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” If the fair value of a reporting unit or an intangible asset is revised downward due to declines in business performance, impairment under SFAS 142 could result and a non-cash charge could be required. This could materially affect our reported net earnings. Our Common Voting shares are principally held by The Edward W. Scripps Trust, such ownership could inhibit potential changes of control. We have two classes of stock: Common Voting shares and Class A Common shares. Holders of Class A Common shares are entitled to elect one-third of the Board of Directors, but are not permitted to vote on any other matters except as required by Ohio law. Holders of Common Voting shares are entitled to elect the remainder of the Board and to vote on all other matters. Our Common Voting shares are principally held by The Edward W. Scripps Trust, which holds 90% of the Common Voting shares. As a result, the trust has the ability to elect two-thirds of the Board of Directors and to direct the outcome of any matter that does not require a vote of the Class A Common shares. Because this concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our businesses, the market price of our Class A Common shares could be adversely affected. If we do not meet the continued listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, our common stock may be delisted. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”). If we do not meet the NYSE’s continued listing requirements, including maintaining a per share price greater than $1.00, the NYSE may take action to delist our common stock. If we are unable to maintain the NYSE’s continued listing standards, we will be notified by the NYSE, and we would expect to have between six and 18 months to take corrective action to meet the continued listing standards before our common stock would be delisted. A delisting of our common stock could negatively impact us by reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock and potentially reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 Table of Contents 