ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors should be considered carefully when evaluating our business. Net Losses In fiscal year 2006, we reported a net loss of $44.0 million, a net decrease in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $14.5 million and used net cash in operating activities of $13.8 million. We anticipate that we will also incur a net loss and a negative net cash flow during fiscal year 2007. There can be no assurance that we will achieve profitability or positive cash flow in any future periods. If we do not become profitable within the timeframe expected by securities analysts or investors, the market price of our stock will likely decline. We believe that we currently have sufficient liquidity to operate our business over the short term; however, our ability to meet our capital requirements over the long term depends upon the return of our operations to profitability and positive cash flow. Reliance on Paid-Up Licenses Over fiscal year 2005 and the first half of fiscal year 2006, we increased our use of paid-up license agreements. Under paid-up license agreements, customers pay a fixed up-front fee to install the applicable product on an unlimited number of devices. Generally, we would recognize all license revenues under a paid-up license agreement upon execution of the agreement, provided all revenue recognition criteria have been met. Paid-up license agreements may have the effect of accelerating revenue into the quarter in which the agreement is executed and thereby decreasing recurring revenues in later quarters. Beginning in the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, we elected to significantly decrease the use of paid-up license agreements and, as of the beginning of fiscal year 2007, to eliminate their use entirely in favor of volume purchase agreements and pay-as-you-go or royalty-based licensing agreements. Decreasing the number of paid-up license agreements contributed along with other factors to a substantial drop in license revenues in the third and fourth quarters of 2006. Paid-up license revenue represented only approximately 15% of net revenues in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006 and 34% of net revenues in the third quarter of fiscal year 2006 as compared to 60% of net revenues in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 and 63% of net revenues in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in increasing the number of volume purchase agreements and pay-as-you-go arrangements, in which case, our license revenue may continue to be weak in future quarters. 12 Restructurings to Reduce Operating Expenses In fiscal year 2006, our management approved two restructuring plans designed to reduce operating expenses by eliminating a total of 103 positions and closing facilities in Munich, Germany, Osaka, Japan, Zaltbommel, the Netherlands and Rockville, Maryland. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2007, the Company announced an additional restructuring plan to effect a further reduction in force of 62 positions, primarily related to employees in the U.S. and Japan. In connection with these plans, we incurred $4.2 million of restructuring costs in fiscal year 2006 and approximately $2.1 million of restructuring costs in the first quarter of fiscal year 2007. Due to the uncertainties of predicting our future revenues and potential changes in industry and market conditions, we may need to consider further strategically realigning our resources through additional restructuring or by disposing of, or otherwise exiting one or more of our current businesses. There can be no assurance that our restructurings in 2006 and the first quarter of 2007, as well as any future restructurings, and related transition issues associated with such restructurings will not adversely affect our operations or customer perceptions. The uncertainty caused by such restructurings could result in a lack of focus and reduced productivity by our remaining employees, including those directly responsible for revenue generation, which in turn may affect our revenue in the future. Any decision to limit investment in, or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as technology related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, or charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities. Our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such decisions. Further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. Additionally, we are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances. There can be no assurance that future goodwill impairment tests will not result in a charge to earnings. Reductions in Workforce As a result of our three restructuring plans announced during fiscal year 2006 and the first quarter of fiscal year 2007, as well as other staff reductions that have occurred in the ordinary course of business, the Company expects that by the beginning of the second quarter of fiscal year 2007, we will have reduced total headcount by approximately 35%, from 521 employees at the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2006 to approximately 335 employees at January 1, 2007. Because of the magnitude of the workforce reductions, it is uncertain whether these layoffs will have a material impact on our ability to meet our existing contractual obligations and whether we will be able to timely and efficiently expand our operations in the future to meet customers’ needs. Fluctuations in Operating Results Our future operating results may vary substantially from period to period. The timing and amount of our license fees are subject to a number of factors that make estimating revenues and operating results prior to the end of a quarter uncertain. While we receive recurring revenues from royalty-based license agreements and some agreements contain minimum quarterly royalty commitments, historically, a significant amount of license fees in any quarter were derived from paid-up licenses and thus were dependent on signing agreements and delivering the licensed software in that quarter. As discussed further in the risk factor above, as of the beginning of fiscal year 2007, we have decided to eliminate the use of paid-up licenses. Generally, we have in the past experienced a pattern of recording 50% or more of our quarterly revenues in the third month of the quarter. We have historically monitored our revenue bookings through regular, periodic worldwide forecast reviews within the quarter. There can be no assurances that this 13 process will result in our meeting revenue expectations. Our planned operating expenses for any year are normally based on the attainment of planned revenue levels for that year and are generally incurred ratably throughout the year. As a result, if revenues were less than planned in any period while expense levels remain relatively fixed, our operating results would be adversely affected for that period. In addition, unplanned expenses could adversely affect operating results for the period in which such expenses were incurred. Investigation of Strategic Alternatives On July 12, 2006, we announced our engagement of Savvian LLC, an independent investment bank, to assist our Board of Directors and management in assessing strategic alternatives to maximize stockholder value. No assumption should be made that any transaction will be entered into or consummated as a result of this review. Moreover, our investigation of strategic alternatives may result in added costs and potential loss of customers and key employees as well as diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business. Product Development Our long-term success will depend on our ability to enhance existing products and to introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective manner that meet the needs of customers in existing and emerging markets. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing new products or in enhancing existing products or that our new and/or enhanced products will be introduced before our competitors’ new releases, or that our products will meet market requirements. Delays in introducing new products can adversely impact acceptance and revenues generated from the sale of such products. We have, from time to time, experienced such delays. Our software products and their enhancements contain complex code that may contain undetected errors and/or bugs when first introduced. There can be no assurance that new products or enhancements will not contain errors or bugs that will adversely affect commercial acceptance of such new products or enhancements. Attraction and Retention of Key Personnel The success of our business will continue to depend upon certain key technical and senior management personnel, including Woodson Hobbs, our new Chief Executive Officer, Richard Arnold, our new Chief Financial Officer, and Dr. Gaurav Banga, our new Chief Technology Officer. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our existing key managerial, technical, or sales and marketing personnel. The loss of these officers or other key employees in the future might adversely affect our business and impede the achievement of our business objectives. In addition, our ability to achieve increased revenues and to develop successful new products and product enhancements will depend in part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled engineering, sales, marketing and administrative personnel. In the event that we expand into new products and new markets, we would probably need to hire people with backgrounds different from those required for our traditional CSS business. A failure to attract and retain employees with the necessary skill sets could adversely affect our business and operating results. Integration of Officers We recently hired a new Chief Executive Officer, a new Chief Financial Officer and a new Chief Technology Officer, and may, in the future, hire additional officers and key employees. To integrate into our Company, new executives and employees must spend a significant amount of time learning our business model and management system, in addition to performing their regular duties. Accordingly, the 14 integration of new personnel may result in some disruption to our ongoing operations. If we fail to complete this integration in an efficient manner, our business and financial results will suffer. End-User Demand for Device Security and Availability Many of our current products and product features, such as the Phoenix Recover Family of products, TrustConnector, and the security-related features in TrustedCore, are focused on helping to ensure that PCs and other digital devices are secure and available to the users, with a minimum of user skill required for end-users to use these products. The success of our strategy depends on continued growth in end-user demand for these capabilities. Although factors such as global terrorism, increased instances of malware, and increased end-user reliance on their digital devices have all contributed to significant growth in demand for security-related products over the last several years, it is difficult to predict whether these trends will continue, accelerate or decelerate. Variations in demand for secure and available digital devices below our expectations could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. Demand for Microsoft’s Vista Operating System and for Newer Microprocessor Designs The adoption of new primary PC technology related to operating systems and to microprocessor designs may have a significant impact on the relative demand for our different CSS products. In particular, Microsoft’s new Vista operating system is designed to support security capabilities that will operate more effectively on PCs running TrustedCore than on those running our older CSS versions. Similarly, some newer microprocessor designs offered by the silicon chip vendors may require the functionality provided by TrustedCore to take full advantage of the new designs’ enhancements. For example, TrustedCore is designed to be easily adaptable for the newer generation of multiple-core microprocessors offered by Intel and AMD, including Intel’s dual-core, while our older CSS versions will require more customization effort by our customers. As a result, the demand for TrustedCore could vary in proportion to the rate at which Vista and these newer microprocessor designs are adopted. Such variations would not necessarily lead to changes in our market share for CSS; however, because we have entered into a significantly larger number of paid-up license agreements for our older CSS products than for TrustedCore, our future reported revenues could be affected to the extent that revenues related to our older CSS products may already have been recognized. Moreover, any further delays in the launch of the consumer version of Microsoft’s Vista operating could adversely affect the revenues that we will generate from sales of TrustedCore and other products. Market for Device Designs Based on the x86 Microprocessor Architecture Our current CSS products are designed for systems built with digital microprocessors based on derivatives of the Intel product used in the original IBM PC/XT/AT. This microprocessor design is commonly called “x86” and current suppliers include Intel and AMD. The largest market for x86 microprocessors is personal computer systems including desktop PCs, mobile PCs and volume servers. Competing microprocessor designs dominate numerous other significant markets, including mobile phones, consumer electronics, PDAs, telematics, digital photography and telecommunications. There can be no assurance that x86 microprocessors will continue to hold a large market share of personal computer system designs. There can also be no assurance that corporations and consumers will continue to purchase traditional desktop and mobile PC designs instead of substitute products such as digital wireless handsets and other consumer digital electronic devices which may utilize other microprocessor designs. Dependence on New Product Releases by Our Customers Successful introduction of new products is key to our success in both our CSS and new applications businesses. Frequently our new products are used in our customers’ new products, making each of us dependent on the other for product introduction schedules. It can happen that a customer may not be able 15 to introduce one of its new products for reasons unrelated to our new product. In these cases, we would not be able to ship our new product until the customer had resolved its other problems. Due to market uncertainties in certain geographic regions, customers may delay their product introductions. If our customers delay their product introductions, our ability to generate revenue from our own new products would be adversely affected. Risks in Acquisitions Our growth is dependent upon market growth and our ability to enhance our existing products and introduce new products on a timely basis. We have addressed and are likely to continue to address the need to introduce new products through both internal development and through acquisitions of other companies and technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: · Difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired companies; · Diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; · Potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development; · Difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; · Insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; and · Potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. Acquisitions may also cause us to: · Issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; · Assume liabilities; · Record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing and potential periodic impairment charges; · Incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; · Incur additional expense related to Sarbanes-Oxley compliance; · Incur large and immediate write-offs of in-process research and development costs; and/or · Become subject to litigation. Mergers and acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition or result in material control weaknesses with respect to Sarbanes-Oxley compliance. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could harm our business and operating results in a material way. Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that product enhancements will be made in a timely fashion or that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to such products. We have not made acquisitions that result in in-process research and development expenses being charged in an individual quarter. These charges may occur in future acquisitions in any particular quarter, resulting in variability in our quarterly earnings. 16 Litigation From time to time, we become involved in litigation claims and disputes in the ordinary course of business. We are currently involved in several lawsuits (see “Item 3—Legal Proceedings” below). Litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. Protection of Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright, trademark, and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights in our software products. There can be no assurance that these protections will be adequate or that competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. In addition, copyright and trade secret protection for our products may be unavailable or unreliable in certain foreign countries. As of September 30, 2006, we have been issued 77 patents in the U.S. and had 41 patent applications in process in the United States Patent and Trademark Office. On a worldwide basis, we have been issued 151 patents with respect to our product offerings and have 143 patent applications pending with respect to certain products we market. We maintain an active internal program designed to identify employee inventions worthy of being patented. There can be no assurance that any of the pending applications will be approved and patents issued or that our engineers will be able to develop technologies capable of being patented. Also, as the number of software patents increases, we believe that companies that develop software products may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. There can be no assurance that a third party will not assert that their patents or other proprietary rights are violated by products offered by us. Any such claims, whether or not meritorious, may be time consuming and expensive to defend, may trigger indemnity obligations owed by us to third parties and may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Infringement of valid patents or copyrights or misappropriation of valid trade secrets, whether alleged against us, or our customers, and regardless of whether such claims have merit, could also have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Effective Tax Rates Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being higher or lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have varying statutory rates or by changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. Entrance into New or Developing Markets In the event that we focus on new market opportunities, we would be likely to increasingly compete with large, established suppliers as well as start-up companies. Some of our current and potential competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we have. Additionally, as customers in these markets mature and expand, they may require greater levels of service and support than we have provided in the past. Our efforts to sell applications software for PCs, and to sell CSS as well as software applications for non-PC devices may require us to sell into markets, or to players in those markets, where we do not have significant prior experience and may require us to increase our spending levels for marketing and sales as well as research and development activities. Many of our competitors may have an advantage over us because of their larger presence and deeper experience in these markets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and market products, services, and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities. Further, provision of greater levels of services may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition. 17 Changes in Financial Accounting Standards and Increased Cost of Compliance We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). GAAP principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standard Board, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies appointed by these organizations to interpret existing rules and create new accounting policies. Accounting policies affecting software revenue recognition, in particular, have been the subject of frequent interpretations, which have had a profound effect on the way we license our products. As a result of the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in 2002 and the related scrutiny of accounting policies by the SEC and the various national and international accounting industry bodies, we expect the frequency of accounting policy changes as well as the cost of compliance to increase. Future changes in financial accounting standards, including pronouncements relating to revenue recognition, may have a significant effect on our reported results. Importance of Microsoft and Intel For a number of years, we have worked closely with leading software and semiconductor companies, including Microsoft and Intel, in developing standards for the PC industry. Although we remain optimistic regarding relationships with these industry leaders, there can be no assurance that they or other software or semiconductor companies will not develop alternative product strategies that could conflict with our product plans and marketing strategies. Action by such companies may adversely impact our business and results of operations. Intel is the leading semiconductor supplier to the customers of our CSS software products. Intel is developing and promoting software under the product name Tiano that competes with our CSS software products and offers this software at no charge through both custom and open source licenses. Some of our CSS competitors provide services and additional features for the Intel software, and we believe that in return Intel provides them with compensation and promotional benefits. We must continuously create new features and functions to sustain, as well as increase, our software’s added value to our customers particularly in light of Intel’s initiative. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in these efforts. Dependence on Key Customers; Concentration of Credit The loss of any key customer and our inability to replace revenues provided by a key customer may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our customer base includes large OEMs in the PC market as well as PC motherboard manufacturers. As a result, we maintain individually significant receivable balances due from some of them. If these customers fail to meet guaranteed minimum royalty payments and other payment obligations, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. As of September 30, 2006, three customers accounted for 12%, 13%, and 20%, respectively, of our total accounts receivable. There are no other customers with more than 10% of our total accounts receivable. Competition The markets for our products are intensely competitive and we expect both product and pricing competition to increase. Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, reduced margins, or the failure of one or more of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance, any of which could adversely affect our business. The Company competes for CSS sales primarily with in-house R&D departments of PC and component manufacturers that may have significantly greater financial and technical resources, as well as closer engineering ties and experience with specific hardware platforms, than the Company. Major 18 companies that may use their own internal BIOS R&D personnel include Dell Computer Corporation, Hewlett Packard Company, IBM Corporation, Toshiba Corporation and Intel Corporation. In addition, some of these competitors are also our customers. Any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with customers and suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition and accordingly affect our chances of success. The Company also competes for system software business with other independent suppliers, including American Megatrends Inc., a privately held company, and other BIOS companies. In the applications software area, as with CSS, the Company competes with in-house and third party company solutions. The Company’s applications that reside in the protected area of the hard drive compete with individual component software and diagnostic and repair software from other companies, as well as with PC manufacturer-developed solutions. Large enterprise solution competitors such as Altiris Incorporated and Symantec Corporation, as well as smaller third party companies, are the primary players. The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we presently compete and may compete in the future include: · The ability to provide products and services that meet the needs of our target customers; · The functionality and performance of these products; · Price; · The ability to timely introduce new products; and · Overall company size and perceived stability. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to compete in any markets in which we operate. International Sales and Activities Revenues derived from international sales comprise a majority of total revenues. There can be no assurances that we will not experience significant fluctuations in international revenues. Our operations and financial results may be adversely affected by factors associated with international operations, such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates, uncertainties related to regional economic circumstances, unexpected changes in local laws or regulations, political instability in emerging markets, difficulties in attracting qualified employees, and language, cultural and other difficulties managing foreign operations. In addition, an increasing percentage of our labor force, particularly in engineering, is located in China, Taiwan and India. Approximately 66% or 235 employees are located outside of the U.S. as of November 30, 2006. Although one of our objectives in utilizing employees based in these markets is to ensure a supply of talented employees at lower expense than we incur in our other employee locations, there can be no assurances that a favorable market for employees will continue to exist in any of our foreign locations, or that changes in local conditions, such as labor laws and regulations, will not adversely affect our results of operations. The Company may in the future choose to terminate the existence of one or more of our foreign operations or subsidiaries. Any such choice may give rise to financial consequences including the possibility of additional taxes or other charges in these jurisdictions or of changes to tax loss carry forwards or credits in these or other jurisdictions. 19 Volatile Market for Phoenix Stock The market for our stock is highly volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been, and will continue to be, subject to fluctuations in response to operating and financial results, changes in demand for our products and services, announcements of technological innovations, the introduction and market acceptance of new technologies by us, our competitors, or other industry participants, including the launch of Microsoft’s Vista operating system, changes in our product mix or product direction or the product mix or direction of our competitors, pricing pressure from our customers and competitors, changes in our revenue mix and revenue growth rates, changes in expectations of growth for the PC industry or the x86 based non-PC digital device industry, the overall trend toward industry consolidation both among our competitors’ and customers, the timing and size of orders from customers, our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions, as well as other events or factors which we may not be able to influence or control. Statements or changes in opinions, ratings or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms and industry analysts relating to the markets in which we do business, companies with which we compete or relating to us specifically could have an immediate and adverse effect on the market price of our stock. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market price for many small capitalization, high technology companies and have often been triggered by factors other than the operating performance of these companies. If the market value of our stock decreases below our net book value, we may have to record a charge for impairment of goodwill. Certain Anti-Takeover Effects Our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law include provisions that may be deemed to have anti-takeover effects and may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. These include provisions under which members of the Board of Directors are divided into three classes and are elected to serve staggered three-year terms. In addition, in November 1999 and in accordance with the Company’s Preferred Shares Rights Agreement, the Company issued as a dividend on its common stock certain rights to purchase the Company’s Series B Participating Preferred Stock. These rights are exercisable upon triggering events related to a change of control of the Company, and, upon exercise, would cause immediate substantial dilution of the Company’s outstanding common stock. Thus the existence of these rights (also known as a “poison pill”) could have a deterrent effect on any person or group that is considering acquiring the Company on terms not approved by the Company’s Board of Directors. Business Disruptions While we have not been the target of software viruses specifically designed to impede the performance of our products, such viruses could be created and deployed against our products in the future. Similarly, experienced computer programmers or hackers may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our Web sites from time to time. A hacker who penetrates our network or Web sites could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions of our services. We might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against, or to alleviate, problems caused by virus creators and/or hackers. In addition, acts of war, power shortage, natural disasters, acts of terror, and regional and global health risks could impact our ability to conduct business in certain regions. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 