ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks, or other risks that have not been identified or which we believe are immaterial or unlikely. Shareholders should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the information incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The current economic environment has adversely affected our financial condition and results of operations. There was significant disruption and volatility in the financial and capital markets during 2008 and 2009. The financial markets and the financial services industry in particular suffered unprecedented disruption, causing a number of institutions to fail or require government intervention to avoid failure. These conditions were largely the result of the erosion of the U.S. and global credit markets, including a significant and rapid deterioration in mortgage lending and related real estate markets. Continued declines in real estate values, high unemployment and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operatio ns. 17 As a consequence of the difficult economic environment, we experienced a significant decrease in earnings resulting primarily from increased provisions for loan losses. There can be no assurance that the economic conditions that have adversely affected the financial services industry, and the capital, credit and real estate markets generally, will improve in the near term, in which case we could continue to experience write-downs of assets, and could face capital and liquidity constraints or other business challenges. A further deterioration in economic conditions, particularly within our market areas, could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations: — Loan delinquencies may further increase causing additional increases in our provision and allowance for loan losses. — Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future charge-offs. — Collateral for loans made by CapitalBank, especially real estate, may continue to decline in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans. — Consumer confidence levels may decline and cause adverse changes in payment patterns, resulting in increased delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities and decreased demand for our products and services. We have sustained losses from a decline in credit quality and may see further losses. Our ability to generate earnings is significantly affected by our ability to properly originate, underwrite, and service loans. We have sustained losses primarily because borrowers, guarantors, or related parties have failed to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans and we failed to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner. We could sustain additional losses for these reasons. Problems with credit quality or asset quality could cause our interest income and net interest margin to decrease, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have recently identified credit deficiencies with respect to certain loans in our loan portfolio which are primarily related to the downturn in the resi dential housing industry. As a result of the decline of the residential housing market, property values for this type of collateral have declined substantially. In response to this determination, we increased our loan loss reserve throughout 2009 to a total loan loss reserve of $14.2 million at December 31, 2009 to address the risks inherent within our loan portfolio. Recent developments, including further deterioration in the South Carolina real estate market as a whole, may cause management to adjust its opinion of the level of credit quality in our loan portfolio. Such a determination may lead to an additional increase in our provisions for loan losses, which could also adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized due to the real estate market decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our asset quality, capital structure and profitability. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of loans secured by either commercial real estate or single family homes that are under construction. As of December 31, 2009, $145.1 million, or 25.6% of our total loans, are classified as Real Estate Construction loans, $149.3 million, or 26.3% of our total loans are classified as Commercial Real Estate loans and $214.7 million, or 37.9% of our total loans, are classified as Mortgage Residential loans. Real Estate Construction loans represent the highest level of risk for the Company due to current real estate and other market conditions and represent 70.3% of our nonperforming loans. So far, other Commercial Real Estate loans have not been as severely impacted by the recent economic downturns. In our Commercial Real Estate loan portfolio, 73.3% of the l oans cover owner-occupied real estate which has a lower risk element than non-owner occupied. Owner-occupied commercial real estate generally has a lower risk profile since business owners are obligated to repay the debt and, accordingly, the loan is not dependent on the liquidation of the collateral as the source of repayment. As of December 31, 2009, only 1.1% of the Company’s nonperforming loans are Commercial Real Estate loans. Our Mortgage Residential loans have continued to perform with only moderate increases in delinquencies. Delinquencies of 30 days and over were 8.6% as of December 31, 2009. Mortgage Residential loans past due 30 days or more were only 7.8% of total Mortgage Residential loans outstanding as of December 31, 2009. These Mortgage Residential loans represent 27.5% of our nonperforming loans. 18 With the recent real estate market downturn and slowing economic conditions, we are subject to increased lending risks in the form of loan defaults as a result of the high concentration of real estate lending in our loan portfolio. All of our markets have experienced a slowdown in residential real estate sales which has, in turn, increased residential lot and home inventory. The decrease in single-family home sales prices is symptomatic of the increases in inventory we have experienced across our markets. Excess residential lot and home inventory, combined with the limited availability of residential mortgage financing due to tighter credit underwriting standards, has resulted in downward pressure on residential values and increased marketing time for residential properties. Our decisions regarding credit risk could be inaccurate and our allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of such loans, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. We may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we consider adequate to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio based on our assessment of the information available. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio based on historical lo ss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classification, volume and trends in delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions and other pertinent information. Regardless of the underwriting criteria utilized, losses may be experienced as a result of various factors beyond our control, including: · cost overruns; · declining property values; · mismanaged construction; · inferior or improper construction techniques; · economic changes or downturns during construction; · rising interest rates that may prevent sale of the property; and · failure to sell completed projects or units in a timely manner. As we expand into new markets, our determination of the size of the allowance could be understated due to our lack of familiarity with market-specific factors. Until economic and market conditions improve, we expect to continue to incur additional losses relating to an increase in non-performing loans. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our income, and increasing our loan administration costs. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related loan to the then fair market value of the collateral, which may result in a loss. These loans and other real estate owned also increase our risk profile and the capital our regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. While we have reduced our problem assets through loan sales, workouts, restructurings and otherwise, decreases in the value of these assets, or the underlying collateral, or in these b orrowers’ performance or financial conditions, whether or not due to economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management and our directors, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. If our assumptions are wrong, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover our loan losses and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses as of December 31, 2009, December 31, 2008, December 31, 2007, and December 31, 2006 was $14.2 million, $13.6 million, $6.8 million and $6.2 million, respectively. During 2009, nonperforming assets increased to $48.3 million, or 8.41% of period-end loans and other real estate, which was up from $31.9 million, or 4.94% at December 31, 2008. The increase reflects rapidly deteriorating economic conditions and growing weakness in the residential real estate sector across our markets since the first quarter of 2008. There can be no assurance that we will not experience further increases in nonperforming loans in the future. As of December 31, 2009, 99.9% of our nonperforming loans were secured by real estate. In evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, we obtained updated external appraisals on many of the properties underlying the nonperforming loans or performed internal valuations based on current market conditions. We recorded annualized net charge-offs, as a percentage of average loans, of 5.23% during 2009 compared with 0.38% during 2008. In addition, banking regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. 19 A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could hurt our business. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 89.8% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. The weakening of the real estate markets in our geographic footprint may result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our profitability and asset quality. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnin gs and capital could be adversely affected. Acts of nature, including hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes, fires and floods, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, may also negatively impact our financial condition. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely affect our financial condition. FDIC insurance premiums have increased substantially in 2009 already and we expect to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future. Market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule on February 27, 2009, which raised deposit insurance premiums. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC also implemented a five basis point special assessment of each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, but no more than 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base for the second quarter of 2009, to be collected on September 30, 2009. Additional special assessments may be imposed by the FDIC for future periods. We participate in the FDIC’s TLGP for noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts. Banks that participate in the TLGP’s noninterest-bearing transaction account guarantee will pay the FDIC an annual assessment of 10 basis points on the amounts in such accounts above the amounts covered by FDIC deposit insurance. To the extent that these TLG assessments are insufficient to cover any loss or expenses arising from the TLGP, the FDIC is authorized to impose an emergency special assessment on all FDIC-insured depository institutions. The FDIC has authority to impose charges for the TLGP program upon depository institution holding companies, as well. These changes, along with the full utilization of our FDIC insurance assessment credit in early 2009, will cause the premiums and TLGP assessments charged by the FDIC to increase. These actions could significantly increase our noninterest expense in 2009 and for the foreseeable future. Continuation of the economic downturn in the upstate region of South Carolina could reduce our customer base, our level of deposits, and demand for financial products such as loans. We operate primarily in the upstate region of South Carolina and substantially all our loan customers and most of our deposit and other customers live or have operations in that area of South Carolina. Accordingly, our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in that region, along with the continued attraction of business ventures to the area. The current economic downturn has negatively affected the markets in which we operate and, in turn, the quality of our loan portfolio. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally remain unfavorable, our business may not succeed. A continuation of the economic downturn or prolonged recession would likely result in the c ontinued deterioration of the quality of our loan portfolio and reduce our level of deposits, which in turn would hurt our business. Interest received on loans represented approximately 90.3% of our interest income for the year ended December 31, 2009. If the economic downturn continues or a prolonged economic recession occurs in the economy as a whole, borrowers will be less likely to repay their loans as scheduled. Moreover, in many cases the value of real estate or other collateral that secures our loans has been adversely affected by the economic conditions and could continue to be negatively affected. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. Our small- to medium-sized business target markets may have fewer financial resources to weather the current downturn in the economy. We target the banking and financial services needs of small and medium-sized businesses. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions continue to negatively impact these businesses in the markets in which we operate, our business, financial condition, and results of operation may continue to be adversely affected. Further disruptions in the global financial markets could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Since mid-2007, global financial markets have suffered substantial disruption, illiquidity and volatility. These circumstances resulted in significant government assistance to a number of major financial institutions. These events have significantly diminished overall confidence in the financial markets and in financial institutions and have increased the uncertainty we face in managing our business. If these disruptions continue or other disruptions in the financial markets or the global or our regional economic environment arise, they could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition, including our liquidity position, and may affect our ability to access capital. 20 There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. As described above under Supervision and Regulation, in response to the challenges facing the financial services sector, a number of regulatory and governmental actions have been enacted or announced. There can be no assurance that these government actions will achieve their purpose. The failure of the financial markets to stabilize, or a continuation or worsening of the current financial market conditions, could have a material adverse affect on our business, our financial condition, the financial condition of our customers, our common stock trading price, as well as our ability to access credit. It could also result in declines in our investment portfolio which could be “other-than-temporary impairments.” We cannot predict the effect on our operations of recent legislative and regulatory initiatives that were enacted in response to the ongoing financial crisis. The U.S. federal, state and foreign governments have taken or are considering extraordinary actions in an attempt to deal with the worldwide financial crisis and the severe decline in the global economy. To the extent adopted, many of these actions have been in effect for only a limited time, and have produced limited or no relief to the capital, credit and real estate markets. There is no assurance that these actions or other actions under consideration will ultimately be successful. In the United States, the federal government has adopted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (enacted on October 3, 2008), or the EESA, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (enacted on February 17, 2009), or the ARRA. With authority granted under these laws, the Treasury Department has proposed a financial stability plan that is intended to: • provide for the government to invest additional capital into banks and otherwise facilitate bank capital formation; • temporarily increase the limits on federal deposit insurance; and • provide for various forms of economic stimulus, including to assist homeowners restructure and lower mortgage payments on qualifying loans. In addition to the EESA and ARRA, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of recently enacted or new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, industry, legislative or regulatory developments may cause us to materially change our existing strategic directi on, capital strategies, compensation or operating plans. President Obama recently announced a proposal to reform the U.S. financial system. Among other things, the plan would create a new consumer protection agency and authorize greater powers for the Federal Reserve Board. There can be no assurance that the financial stability plan proposed by the Treasury Department and the President’s proposals, or any other legislative or regulatory initiatives enacted or adopted in response to the ongoing economic crisis, will be effective at dealing with the ongoing economic crisis and improving economic conditions globally, nationally or in our markets or that the measures adopted will not have adverse consequences. Additional valuation allowance of our deferred tax asset would negatively impact our net earnings or loss. We calculate income taxes in accordance with ASC 740-10, which requires the use of the asset and liability method. In accordance with ASC 740-10, we regularly assess available positive and negative evidence to determine whether it is more likely than not that our deferred tax asset balances will be recovered. At December 31, 2009, our net deferred tax asset was $6.6 million. During 2009, we realized a valuation allowance in the amount of $380,000 for the parent company’s Net Operating Losses (“NOLs”). Realization of a deferred tax asset requires us to exercise significant judgment and is inherently speculative because it requires the future occurrence of circumstances that cannot be predicted with certainty. If we, or our regulators, determine that an additional valuation allowance of our deferred tax asset is necessary, we would incur a charge to earnings. Our holding company structure and regulations applicable to us can restrict our ability to provide liquidity to meet our obligations. Our business operations and related generation of cash flow principally occur in our subsidiary, CapitalBank. Significant parts of our capital markets obligations, including dividends on trust preferred securities and the related debentures, are obligations of the Company. Historically, the Company has relied upon dividends from CapitalBank to fund these types of obligations. At the present time, the Company has limited resources in order to meet such obligations in the absence of payment of dividends from CapitalBank. These resources include a limited amount of cash on hand. In light of these circumstances, we may determine that it is necessary or appropriate to raise capital or seek other financing sources and/or take steps to reduce our cash payment obligations at the holding company level. If the Company is unabl e to raise additional capital or obtain other financing, the Company may not be able to meet its obligations when due. 21 Liquidity risks could affect operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our funding sources include federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, non-core deposits, and short- and long-term debt. We are also members of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta and the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, where we can obtain advances collateralized with eligible assets. We maintain a portfolio of securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. There are other sources of liquidity available to us or CapitalBank should they be needed, including our ability to acquire additional non-core deposits, the issuance and sale of debt securities, and the issuance and sale of securities in public or private transactions. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities or on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Our liquidity, on a parent only basis, is adversely affected by our current inability to receive dividends from CapitalBank without prior regulatory approval. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as further disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about our prospects or the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. We are required to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, and if we fail to maintain sufficient capital, whether due to losses, an inability to raise additional capital or otherwise, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as our regulatory requirements, would be adversely affected. Both the Company and CapitalBank must meet regulatory capital requirements and maintain sufficient liquidity. We also face significant regulatory and other governmental risk as a financial institution. Our ability to raise additional capital, when and if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry and market condition, and governmental activities, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we fail to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be mat erially and adversely affected. Our failure to remain “well capitalized” for bank regulatory purposes could affect customer confidence, our ability to grow, our costs of funds and FDIC insurance costs, our ability to pay dividends on common stock, make distributions on our trust preferred securities, our ability to make acquisitions, and our business, results of operation and financial conditions, generally. Under FDIC rules, if CapitalBank ceases to be a “well capitalized” institution for bank regulatory purposes, its ability to accept brokered deposits may be restricted, and the interest rates that it pays may be restricted, both of which could substantially impair our liquidity. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, FDIC insurance assessments, interest rates and competitive pressures. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, FDIC insurance assessments, interest rates and competitive pressures. We have traditionally obtained funds principally through local deposits and we have a base of lower cost transaction deposits. Generally, we believe local deposits are a cheaper and more stable source of funds than other borrowings because interest rates paid for local deposits are typically lower than interest rates charged for borrowings from other institutional lenders and reflect a mix of transaction and time deposits, whereas brokered deposits typically are higher cost time deposits. Our costs of funds and our profitability and liquidity are likely to be adversely affected, if and to the extent we have to rely upon higher cost borrowings from other institutional lenders or brokers to fund loan demand or liquidity needs, and changes in our deposit mix and growth could adversely affect our profitability and the ability to expand our loan portfolio. Our directors and executive officers own a significant portion of our common stock and can exert significant control over our business and corporate affairs. Our directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially owned approximately 16% of our outstanding common stock, as of December 31, 2009. As a result of their ownership, the directors and executive officers will have the ability, by voting their shares in concert, to significantly influence the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. 22 Liquidity needs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on dividends from CapitalBank as our primary source of funds. The primary sources of funds of CapitalBank are client deposits and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and international instability. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, regulatory capital requirements, returns available to clients on alternative investments and general economic conditions. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, sales of securities and loans, and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks, as well as out-of-market time deposits. While we believe that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity demands, particularly if we continue to grow and experience increasing loan demand. We may be required to slow or discontinue loan growth, capital expenditures or other investments or liquidate assets should such sources not be adequate. We may incur losses if we are unable to successfully manage interest rate risk. Our profitability will depend in substantial part upon the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and the interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. These rates are normally in line with general market rates. However, we may pay above-market rates to attract deposits as we have done in some of our marketing promotions in the past. Changes in interest rates will affect our operating performance and financial condition in diverse ways including the pricing of securities, loans and deposits, and the volume of loan originations in our mortgage banking business. We attempt to minimize our exposure to interest rate risk, but we are unable to completely eliminate this risk. Our net interest spread will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outsi de our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Our net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change so that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest we earn on loans and investments. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. Recently, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk ma y be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. To prepare us for these possibilities, we monitor the financial soundness of companies we deal with. However, there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are exposed to the possibility that more prepayments may be made by customers to pay down loan balances, which could reduce our interest income and profitability. Prepayment rates stem from consumer behavior, conditions in the housing and financial markets, general United States economic conditions, and the relative interest rates on fixed-rate and adjustable-rate loans. Therefore, changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Recognition of deferred loan origination costs and premiums paid in originating these loans are normally recognized over the contractual life of each loan. As prepayments occur, the rate at which net deferred loan origination costs and premiums are expensed will accelerate. The effect of the acceleration of deferred costs and premium amortization may be mitigated by prepayment penalties paid by the borrower when the loan is paid in full within a certain period of time. If prepayment occurs after the period of time when the loan is subject to a pr epayment penalty, the effect of the acceleration of premium and deferred cost amortization is no longer mitigated. We recognize premiums paid on mortgage-backed securities as an adjustment from interest income over the expected life of the security based on the rate of repayment of the securities. Acceleration of prepayments on the loans underlying a mortgage-backed security shortens the life of the security, increases the rate at which premiums are expensed and further reduces interest income. We may not be able to reinvest loan and security prepayments at rates comparable to the prepaid instrument particularly in a period of declining interest rates. 23 Negative public opinion surrounding our company and the financial institutions industry generally could damage our reputation and adversely impact our earnings. Reputation risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative public opinion surrounding our company and the financial institutions industry generally, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract clients and employees and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Although we take steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with our clients and communities, this risk will always be present given the nature of our business. The banking industry is highly competitive. The banking industry in our market area is highly competitive. We compete with many different financial and financial service institutions, including: • other commercial and savings banks and savings and loan associations; • credit unions; • finance companies; • mortgage companies; • brokerage and investment banking firms; and • asset-based non-bank lenders. A substantial number of the commercial banks in our market area are branches or subsidiaries of much larger organizations affiliated with statewide, regional, or national banking companies, and as a result may have greater resources and lower cost of funds. Additionally, we face competition from de novo community banks, including those with senior management who were previously with other local banks or those controlled by investor groups with strong local business and community ties. These competitors aggressively solicit customers within their market area by advertising through direct mail, the electronic media, and other means. Many of these competitors have been in business longer, and are substantially larger, than us. These competitors may offer services, such as international b anking services, that we can offer only through correspondents, if at all. Additionally, larger competitors have greater capital resources and, consequently, higher lending limits. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of and experience in the South Carolina community banking industry. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel. In particular, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of our Chief Executive Officer, William G. Stevens, who has expertise in community banking and experience in the markets we ser ve and have targeted for future expansion. We are also dependent upon a number of other key executives who are integral to implementing our business plan. The loss of the services of any one of our senior executive management team or other key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our growth strategy will require future increases in capital that we may not be able to accomplish. We are required by banking regulators to maintain various ratios of capital to assets. As our assets grow, we expect our capital ratios to decline unless we can increase our earnings or raise new capital sufficiently to keep pace with asset growth. If we are unable to limit a capital ratio decline by increasing our capital, we will have to restrict our asset growth as we approach the minimum required capital to asset ratios. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to clients, we may assume that a customer's audited financial statements conform to GAAP and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. Our earnings are significantly affected by our ability to properly originate, underwrite and service loans . Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we incorrectly assess the creditworthiness of our borrowers, fail to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner, or rely on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or are materially misleading. 24 We are subject to governmental regulation which could change and increase our cost of doing business or have an adverse effect on our business. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Our compliance with the requirements of these agencies is costly and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our activities, including, payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by federal authorities and our failure to meet those guidelines could result, in an extreme case, in our bank’s being placed in receivership. Supervision, regulation and examination of banks and bank holding companies by financial institution regulatory agencies are intended for the protection of depositors and our other customers rather than the holders of our common stock. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the impact of these changes on our business or profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting standard setters, including the FASB, SEC and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. The preparation of our financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. One of our most critical estimates is the level of the allowance for credit losses. Due to the inherent nature of this estimate, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not significantly increase the allowance for credit losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance. For more information on the sensitivity of this estimate, refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section. We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology from third-party service providers, and we may suffer an interruption in those systems that may result in lost business and we may not be able to obtain substitute providers on terms that are as favorable if our relationships with our existing service providers are interrupted. We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. Any failure or interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems. We cannot assure you that such failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed by us or the third parties on which we rely. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is a ny other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the business continuity and disaster recovery plans that we have in place are not adequate to continue our operations in the event of a disaster, the business disruption can adversely impact our operations. External events, including terrorist or military actions, or an outbreak of disease, such as Asian Influenza, or “bird flu,” and resulting political and social turmoil could cause unforeseen damage to our physical facilities, or could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing and financial market settlement functions. Additionally, our customers, vendors and counterparties could suffer from such events. Should these events affect us, or the customers, vendors or counterparties with which we conduct business, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 25 Provisions in our articles of incorporation and South Carolina law may discourage or prevent takeover attempts, and these provisions may have the effect of reducing the market price for our stock. Our articles of incorporation include several provisions that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing hostile takeover attempts, and therefore of making the removal of incumbent management difficult. The provisions include staggered terms for our board of directors and requirements of supermajority votes to approve certain business transactions. In addition, South Carolina law contains several provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors, and may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock. To the extent that these provisions are effective in discouraging or preventing takeover attempts, they may tend to reduce the market pri ce for our stock. Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in losses to our investors and litigation against us. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include but are not limited to: actual or anticipated variations in earnings, changes in analysts' recommendations or projections, our announcement of developments related to our businesses, operations and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers, new technology used or services offered by traditional and non-traditional competitors, news reports of trends, concerns, irrational exuberance on the part of investors, and other issues related to the financial services industry. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market declines or market volatility in the future, especially in the financial institutions sector of the economy, could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Moreover, in the past, securities class action lawsuits have been instituted against some companies following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We could in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources from our normal business. Our ability to pay cash dividends is limited, and we may be unable to pay future dividends even if we desire to do so. Our ability to pay cash dividends may be limited by regulatory restrictions, by CapitalBank’s ability to pay cash dividends to our holding company and by our need to maintain sufficient capital to support our operations. The ability of CapitalBank to pay cash dividends to our holding company is limited by its obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other restrictions on their cash dividends that are applicable to South Carolina state banks and banks that are regulated by the FDIC. If CapitalBank is not permitted to pay cash dividends to our holding company, it is unlikely that we would be able to pay cash dividends on our common stock. In April 2009, we announced we were suspending our quarterly cash dividends to preserve our retained capital and because of regulatory concerns. O ur future dividends are subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon a number of factors, including future earnings, financial condition, cash requirements, and general business conditions. Even though our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market’s Global Market, it has less liquidity than the average stock quoted on a national securities exchange. The trading volume in our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the Nasdaq Global Market or the stock exchanges. As a result, it may be more difficult for shareholders to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which shareholders could sell a smaller number of shares. We also cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our future ab ility to raise capital through sales of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. Our common stock is not insured, so you could lose your total investment. Our common stock is not a deposit or savings account, and will not be insured by the FDIC or any other government agency. Should our business fail, you could lose your total investment. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. There are no comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act that remain unresolved. 26 