ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves various risks which are particular to our company, our industry and our market area. Several risk factors regarding investing in our common stock are discussed below. This listing should not be considered as all-inclusive. If any of the following risks were to occur, we may not be able to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition or operating results could be negatively impacted. These matters could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline in future periods. We are geographically concentrated in the upstate region of South Carolina, and changes in local economic conditions impact our profitability. We operate primarily in the upstate region of South Carolina and substantially all our loan customers and most of our deposit and other customers live or have operations in that area of South Carolina. Accordingly, our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in that region, along with the continued attraction of business ventures to the area. Our profitability is impacted by the changes in general economic conditions in this market. Additionally, unfavorable local or national economic conditions could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will stabilize the U.S. financial system. On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) was signed into law in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury will have the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the U.S. Department of Treasury announced a program under the EESA pursuant to which it would make senior preferred stock investments in participating financial institutions (the “TARP Capital Purchase Program”). On October 14, 2008, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation announced the development of a guarantee program under the systemic risk exception to the Federal Deposit Act (“FDA”) pursuant to which the FDIC would offer a guarantee of certain financial institution indebtedness in exchange for an insurance premium to be paid to the FDIC by issuing financial institutions (the “FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program”). Most recently, on February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”), which contains a wide array of provisions aimed at stimulating the U.S. economy, was signed into law. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA, ARRA and their implementing regulations, the FDIC programs, or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the EESA, ARRA, the FDIC, or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit, or the trading price of our common stock. The impact on us of recently enacted legislation, in particular the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and their implementing regulations, and actions by the FDIC, cannot be predicted at this time. The programs established or to be established under the EESA, ARRA and Troubled Asset Relief Program may have adverse effects upon us. We may face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Also, participation in specific programs may subject us to additional restrictions. For example, participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program will limit (without the consent of the Department of Treasury) our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding. It will also subject us to additional executive compensation restrictions. Similarly, programs established by the FDIC under the systemic risk exception of the FDA, whether we participate or not, may have an adverse effect on us. Participation in the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program likely will require the payment of additional insurance premiums to the FDIC. We may be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums even if we do not participate in the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The affects of participating or not participating in any such programs and the extent of our participation in such programs cannot reliably be determined at this time. 13 Table of Contents Our estimated allowance for loan losses may be inadequate and future increases in the allowance would reduce earnings. We are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to the contractual terms and that any collateral securing the payment of these loans will not be sufficient to ensure full repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and ability to meet obligations. The volatility and deterioration in markets may also increase our risk for credit losses. We evaluate the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses that we believe to be adequate based on a variety of factors including but not limited to: the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans, previous loan loss experience, specific loans that have loss potential, delinquency trends, estimated fair market value of the collateral, current economic conditions, the views of our regulators, and geographic and industry loan concentrations. If our evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults cause losses that exceed our allowance for loan losses, our earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. No assurance can be given that the allowance will be adequate to cover loan losses inherent in our portfolio. We may experience losses in our loan portfolios or perceive adverse conditions and trends that may require us to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses in the future, a decision that would reduce earnings. Recent negative developments in the financial industry and the credit markets may adversely affect our operations and results. Negative developments in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing into 2010. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Global securities markets, and bank holding company stock prices in particular, have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. As a result, significant new federal laws and regulations relating to financial institutions, including, without limitation, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the U.S. Treasury Department's Capital Purchase Program, have been adopted. Furthermore, the potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations regarding, among other matters, lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. We can provide no assurance regarding the manner in which any new laws and regulations will affect us. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could hurt our business. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 90.07% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. The weakening of the real estate markets in our geographic footprint may result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our profitability and asset quality. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Acts of nature, including hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes, fires and floods, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures these loans, may also negatively impact our financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Liquidity needs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on dividends from CapitalBank as our primary source of funds. The primary sources of funds of CapitalBank are client deposits and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and international instability. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, regulatory capital requirements, returns available to clients on alternative investments and general economic conditions. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, sales of securities and loans, and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks, as well as out-of-market time deposits. While we believe that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity demands, particularly if we continue to grow and experience increasing loan demand. We may be required to slow or discontinue loan growth, capital expenditures or other investments or liquidate assets should such sources not be adequate. We may incur losses if we are unable to successfully manage interest rate risk. Our profitability will depend in substantial part upon the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and the interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. These rates are normally in line with general market rates. However, we may pay above-market rates to attract deposits as we have done in some of our marketing promotions in the past. Changes in interest rates will affect our operating performance and financial condition in diverse ways including the pricing of securities, loans and deposits, and the volume of loan originations in our mortgage banking business. We attempt to minimize our exposure to interest rate risk, but we are unable to completely eliminate this risk. Our net interest spread will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Our net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change so that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest we earn on loans and investments. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. These write-downs, initially of asset-backed securities but spreading to other securities and loans, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. Our small to medium-sized business target market may have fewer financial resources to weather a downturn in the economy. We target our commercial development and marketing strategy primarily to serve the banking and financial services needs of small and medium-sized businesses. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact this major economic sector in the markets in which we operate, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. Recently, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. To prepare us for these possibilities, we monitor the financial soundness of companies we deal with. However, there is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are exposed to the possibility that more prepayments may be made by customers to pay down loan balances, which could reduce our interest income and profitability. Prepayment rates stem from consumer behavior, conditions in the housing and financial markets, general United States economic conditions, and the relative interest rates on fixed-rate and adjustable-rate loans. Therefore, changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Recognition of deferred loan origination costs and premiums paid in originating these loans are normally recognized over the contractual life of each loan. As prepayments occur, the rate at which net deferred loan origination costs and premiums are expensed will accelerate. The effect of the acceleration of deferred costs and premium amortization may be mitigated by prepayment penalties paid by the borrower when the loan is paid in full within a certain period of time. If prepayment occurs after the period of time when the loan is subject to a prepayment penalty, the effect of the acceleration of premium and deferred cost amortization is no longer mitigated. We recognize premiums paid on mortgage-backed securities as an adjustment from interest income over the expected life of the security based on the rate of repayment of the securities. Acceleration of prepayments on the loans underlying a mortgage-backed security shortens the life of the security, increases the rate at which premiums are expensed and further reduces interest income. We may not be able to reinvest loan and security prepayments at rates comparable to the prepaid instrument particularly in a period of declining interest rates. Negative public opinion surrounding our company and the financial institutions industry generally could damage our reputation and adversely impact our earnings. Reputation risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative public opinion surrounding our company and the financial institutions industry generally, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract clients and employees and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Although we take steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with our clients and communities, this risk will always be present given the nature of our business. The banking industry is highly competitive. The banking industry in our market area is highly competitive. We compete with many different financial and financial service institutions, including: • other commercial and savings banks and savings and loan associations; • credit unions; • finance companies; • mortgage companies; • brokerage and investment banking firms; and • asset-based non-bank lenders. 16 Table of Contents A substantial number of the commercial banks in our market area are branches or subsidiaries of much larger organizations affiliated with statewide, regional, or national banking companies, and as a result may have greater resources and lower cost of funds. Additionally, we face competition from de novo community banks, including those with senior management who were previously with other local banks or those controlled by investor groups with strong local business and community ties. These competitors aggressively solicit customers within their market area by advertising through direct mail, the electronic media, and other means. Many of these competitors have been in business longer, and are substantially larger, than us. These competitors may offer services, such as international banking services, that we can offer only through correspondents, if at all. Additionally, larger competitors have greater capital resources and, consequently, higher lending limits. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of and experience in the South Carolina community banking industry. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel. In particular, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of our Chief Executive Officer, William G. Stevens, who has expertise in community banking and experience in the markets we serve and have targeted for future expansion. We are also dependent upon a number of other key executives who are integral to implementing our business plan. The loss of the services of any one of our senior executive management team or other key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our growth strategy will require future increases in capital that we may not be able to accomplish. We are required by banking regulators to maintain various ratios of capital to assets. As our assets grow, we expect our capital ratios to decline unless we can increase our earnings or raise new capital sufficiently to keep pace with asset growth. If we are unable to limit a capital ratio decline by increasing our capital, we will have to restrict our asset growth as we approach the minimum required capital to asset ratios. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to clients, we may assume that a customer's audited financial statements conform to GAAP and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. Our earnings are significantly affected by our ability to properly originate, underwrite and service loans. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we incorrectly assess the creditworthiness of our borrowers, fail to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner, or rely on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or are materially misleading. We are subject to governmental regulation which could change and increase our cost of doing business or have an adverse effect on our business. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Our compliance with the requirements of these agencies is costly and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our activities, including, payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by federal authorities and our failure to meet those guidelines could result, in an extreme case, in our bank’s being placed in receivership. Supervision, regulation and examination of banks and bank holding companies by financial institution regulatory agencies are intended for the protection of depositors and our other customers rather than the holders of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the impact of these changes on our business or profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting standard setters, including the FASB, SEC and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. The preparation of our financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. One of our most critical estimates is the level of the allowance for credit losses. Due to the inherent nature of this estimate, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not significantly increase the allowance for credit losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance. For more information on the sensitivity of this estimate, refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section. We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology from third-party service providers, and we may suffer an interruption in those systems that may result in lost business and we may not be able to obtain substitute providers on terms that are as favorable if our relationships with our existing service providers are interrupted. We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. Any failure or interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems. We cannot assure you that such failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed by us or the third parties on which we rely. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the business continuity and disaster recovery plans that we have in place are not adequate to continue our operations in the event of a disaster, the business disruption can adversely impact our operations. External events, including terrorist or military actions, or an outbreak of disease, such as Asian Influenza, or “bird flu,” and resulting political and social turmoil could cause unforeseen damage to our physical facilities, or could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing and financial market settlement functions. Additionally, our customers, vendors and counterparties could suffer from such events. Should these events affect us, or the customers, vendors or counterparties with which we conduct business, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Litigation Risk From time to time, we are subject to claims and litigation from customers and other individuals. Whether such claims and legal action are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. 18 Table of Contents Provisions in our articles of incorporation and South Carolina law may discourage or prevent takeover attempts, and these provisions may have the effect of reducing the market price for our stock. Our articles of incorporation include several provisions that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing hostile takeover attempts, and therefore of making the removal of incumbent management difficult. The provisions include staggered terms for our board of directors and requirements of supermajority votes to approve certain business transactions. In addition, South Carolina law contains several provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors, and may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock. To the extent that these provisions are effective in discouraging or preventing takeover attempts, they may tend to reduce the market price for our stock. Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in losses to our investors and litigation against us. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include but are not limited to: actual or anticipated variations in earnings, changes in analysts' recommendations or projections, our announcement of developments related to our businesses, operations and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers, new technology used or services offered by traditional and non-traditional competitors, news reports of trends, concerns, irrational exuberance on the part of investors, and other issues related to the financial services industry. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market declines or market volatility in the future, especially in the financial institutions sector of the economy, could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. Moreover, in the past, securities class action lawsuits have been instituted against some companies following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We could in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources from our normal business. Our ability to pay cash dividends is limited, and we may be unable to pay future dividends even if we desire to do so. Our ability to pay cash dividends may be limited by regulatory restrictions, by CapitalBank’s ability to pay cash dividends to our holding company and by our need to maintain sufficient capital to support our operations. The ability of CapitalBank to pay cash dividends to our holding company is limited by its obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other restrictions on their cash dividends that are applicable to South Carolina state banks and banks that are regulated by the FDIC. If CapitalBank is not permitted to pay cash dividends to our holding company, it is unlikely that we would be able to pay cash dividends on our common stock. Even though our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market’s Global Market, it has less liquidity than the average stock quoted on a national securities exchange. The trading volume in our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the Nasdaq Global Market or the stock exchanges. As a result, it may be more difficult for shareholders to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which shareholders could sell a smaller number of shares. We also cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our future ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. 19 Table of Contents Our common stock is not insured, so you could lose your total investment. Our common stock is not a deposit or savings account, and will not be insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other government agency. Should our business fail, you could lose your total investment. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. There are no comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act that remain unresolved. 