ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Spending on goods that are, or are perceived to be “luxuries”, such as jewelry, is discretionary and is affected by general economic conditions. Therefore adverse changes in the economy may unfavorably impact Signet’s sales and earnings Jewelry purchases are discretionary and are dependent on consumers’ perception of general economic conditions, particularly as jewelry is often perceived to be a luxury purchase. Adverse changes in the economy and periods when discretionary spending by consumers may be under pressure, could unfavorably impact sales and earnings. The success of Signet’s operations depends to a significant extent upon a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer spending. These include economic conditions, and perceptions of such conditions by consumers, consumer confidence, employment, the rate of change in employment, the level of consumers’ disposable income and income available for discretionary expenditure, the savings ratio, business conditions, interest rates, consumer debt and asset values, availability of credit and levels of taxation for the economy as a whole and in regional and local markets where it operates. About half of US sales are made utilizing customer finance provided by Signet. Therefore any deterioration in the consumers’ financial position could adversely impact sales and earnings Any significant deterioration in general economic conditions or increase in consumer debt levels may inhibit consumers’ use of credit and decrease the consumers’ ability to satisfy Signet’s requirement to authorize customer finance and could in turn have an adverse effect on the US division’s sales. Furthermore, any downturn in general or local economic conditions, in particular an increase in unemployment, in the markets in which the US division operates may adversely affect its collection of outstanding accounts receivable, its net bad debt charge and hence earnings. Changes to the regulatory requirements regarding the granting of credit to customers could adversely impact sales and operating income About half of US sales utilize in-house customer financing programs and about a further 36% of purchases are made using third party bank cards. The ability to extend credit to customers and the terms on which it is achieved depends on many factors, including compliance with applicable state and federal laws and regulations, any of which may change from time to time, and any change in regulations, or the application of regulations, relating to the provision of credit and associated services could adversely affect sales and income. In addition, other restrictions and regulations arising from applicable law could cause limitations in credit terms currently offered or a reduction in the level of credit granted by the US division, or by third parties and this could adversely impact sales, income or cash flow, as could any reduction in the level of credit granted by the US division, or by third parties, as a result of the restrictions placed on fees and interest charged. The US Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was signed into law in July 2010. Among other things, the US Dodd-Frank Act creates a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection with broad rule-making and supervisory authority for a wide range of consumer financial services, including Signet’s customer finance programs. The Bureau’s authority becomes effective in July 2011. Any new regulatory initiatives could impose additional costs on the US division and adversely affect its ability to conduct its business. Signet’s share price may be volatile Signet’s share price may fluctuate substantially as a result of variations in the actual or anticipated results and financial conditions of Signet and of other companies in the retail industry. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many retail and other shares in a manner unrelated, or disproportionate to, the operating performance of these companies. 26 Table of Contents The concentration of a significant proportion of sales and an even larger share of profits in the fourth quarter means results are dependent on the performance during that period Signet’s business is highly seasonal, with a significant proportion of its sales and operating profit generated during its fourth quarter, which includes the Holiday Season. Management expects to continue to experience a seasonal fluctuation in its sales and earnings. Therefore there is limited ability to compensate for shortfalls in fourth quarter sales or earnings by changes in its operations and strategies in other quarters, or to recover from any extensive disruption, for example due to sudden adverse changes in consumer confidence, inclement weather conditions having an impact on a significant number of stores in the last few days immediately before Christmas Day or disruption to warehousing and store replenishment systems. A significant shortfall in results for the fourth quarter of any fiscal year would therefore be expected to have a material adverse effect on the annual results of operations. Disruption at lesser peaks in sales at Valentine’s Day and Mother’s Day would impact the results to a lesser extent. Signet is dependent on a variety of financing resources to fund its operations and growth which may include equity, cash balances and debt financing While Signet has a strong balance sheet with significant cash balances and available lines of credit, it is dependent upon the availability of equity, cash balances and debt financing to fund its operations and growth. If Signet’s access to capital were to become significantly constrained, its financing costs would likely increase, its financial condition would be harmed and future results of operations could be adversely affected. The changes in general credit market conditions also affect Signet’s ability to arrange, and the cost of arranging, credit facilities. Management prepares annual budgets, medium term plans and risk models which help to identify the future capital requirements, so that appropriate facilities can be put in place on a timely basis. If these models are inaccurate, adequate facilities may not be available. Signet’s borrowing agreements include various financial covenants and operating restrictions. A material deterioration in its financial performance could result in a covenant being breached. If Signet were to breach, or believed it was going to breach, a financial covenant it would have to renegotiate its terms with current lenders or find alternative sources of finance if current lenders required cancelation of facilities or early repayment. In addition, Signet’s reputation in the financial markets and its corporate governance practices can influence the availability of capital, the cost of capital and its share price. Restrictions on Signet’s ability to make distributions to shareholders could be imposed under future borrowing agreements and may have an adverse impact on the share price During most of calendar 2009 and 2010, Signet was restricted from making distributions to shareholders under the terms of its borrowing agreements. Although these restrictions are no longer in place, future borrowing agreements may contain restrictions on shareholder distributions, which may have an adverse impact on the share price. As Signet has material cash balances, it is exposed to counterparty credit risks At January 29, 2011, Signet had cash and cash equivalents of $302.1 million (January 30, 2010: $316.2 million). These balances are predominantly held in ‘AAA’ rated liquidity funds and also with various banks. If a liquidity fund were to default or one of the banks were to become insolvent, Signet may be unable to recover these amounts or obtain access to them in a timely manner. Movements in the pound sterling to US dollar exchange rates impact the results and balance sheet of Signet Signet publishes its consolidated annual financial statements in US dollars. It held approximately 84% of its total assets in US dollars at January 29, 2011 and generated approximately 80% of its sales and 92% of its operating 27 Table of Contents income in US dollars for the fiscal year then ended. Nearly all the remaining assets, sales and operating income are in the UK. Therefore its results and balance sheet are subject to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the pound sterling and the US dollar. Accordingly, any decrease in the weighted average value of the pound sterling against the US dollar would decrease reported sales and operating income. The average exchange rate is used to prepare the income statement and is calculated from the weekly average exchange rates weighted by sales of the UK division. As a result, Signet’s results are particularly impacted by movements in the fourth quarter of its fiscal year, with the exchange rate in the first three weeks of December having the largest impact on the average exchange rate used. A movement in the year to date exchange rate from that in the prior quarter in a particular fiscal year will result in that quarter’s results being impacted by adjustments to sales and costs in prior quarters to reflect the changed year to date exchange rate. This can have a particularly noticeable impact on results for the third quarter. In addition, as the UK division’s selling, general and administrative expenses are spread more evenly between quarters than its sales, these expenses can be particularly impacted in the fourth quarter. Where pounds sterling are held or used to fund the cash flow requirements of the business, any decrease in the weighted average value of the pound sterling against the US dollar would reduce the amount of cash and cash equivalents and increase the amount of any pounds sterling borrowings. In addition, the prices of materials and certain products bought on the international markets by the UK division are denominated in US dollars, and therefore the division has an exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on the cost of goods sold. Fluctuations in the availability and pricing of commodities, particularly polished diamonds and gold, which account for the majority of Signet’s merchandise costs, could adversely impact its earnings and cash availability The jewelry industry generally is affected by fluctuations in the price and supply of diamonds, gold and, to a lesser extent, other precious and semi-precious metals and stones. In particular diamonds account for about 50% of Signet’s merchandise costs, and gold about 20%. Due to the sharp decline in demand for diamonds in the second half of Fiscal 2009 and in the first six months of Fiscal 2010, particularly in the US, which accounts for about 40% of worldwide demand, the supply chain was overstocked with polished diamonds. Combined with the reduced levels of credit availability, the over supply of diamonds resulted in decreases in the price of loose polished diamonds of all sizes and qualities. This was particularly marked in diamonds larger, and of better quality, than the type that Signet typically purchases. In the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2010 and during Fiscal 2011, the price of polished diamonds purchased by Signet increased but remained below the level of Fiscal 2009. The cost of diamonds may increase further during Fiscal 2012. While jewelry manufacture is the major final demand for gold, management believes that the cost of gold is predominantly driven by investment transactions which have resulted in a significant increase in its cost. Therefore Signet’s cost of merchandise and potentially its earnings may be adversely impacted by investment market considerations. An inability to increase retail prices to reflect higher commodity costs would result in lower profitability. Historically jewelry retailers have been able, over time, to increase prices to reflect changes in commodity costs. However, particularly sharp increases and volatility in commodity costs usually result in a time lag before increased commodity costs are fully reflected in retail prices. There is no certainty that such price increases will be sustainable, so downward pressure on gross margins and earnings may occur. Diamonds are the largest product category sold by Signet. The supply and price of diamonds in the principal world markets are significantly influenced by a single entity—the Diamond Trading Company (“DTC”), a subsidiary of De Beers Consolidated Mines Limited. The DTC’s share of the diamond supply chain has decreased over recent years and this may result in more volatility in rough diamond prices. 28 Table of Contents It is forecast that over the medium and longer term, the demand for diamonds will probably increase faster than the growth in supply, particularly as a result of growing demand in countries such as China and India. Therefore the cost of diamonds is anticipated to rise over time, although fluctuations in price are likely to occur. In the short term, the mining production and inventory policies followed by major producers of rough diamonds can have a significant impact on diamond prices, as can the inventory and buying patterns of jewelry retailers. A major new source of rough diamonds is being developed in Zimbabwe, and the impact of this, including the availability and price of diamonds, is unknown. The availability of diamonds is significantly influenced by the political situation in diamond producing countries and the Kimberley Process, an inter-governmental agreement for the international trading of rough diamonds. Until alternative sources of diamonds can be developed, any sustained interruption in the supply of diamonds from significant producing countries, or to the trading in rough and polished diamonds which could occur as a result of disruption to the Kimberley Process, could adversely affect Signet and the retail jewelry market as a whole. The Kimberley Process decision making procedure is dependent on a consensus among member governments and that can result in the protracted resolution of issues, which could impact the supply of diamonds. The possibility of constraints in the supply of diamonds of a size and quality Signet requires to meet its merchandising requirements may result in changes in Signet’s supply chain practices. For example, Signet may choose to hold more inventory, to purchase raw materials at an earlier stage in the supply chain or enter into commercial agreements of a nature that it currently does not use. Such actions could require the investment of cash and the development of additional management skills. Such actions may not result in the expected returns and other projected benefits anticipated by management. The US Dodd-Frank Act requires the SEC to issue rules, which are still being prepared, for the disclosure and reporting on the use of certain minerals, including gold, which come from the conflict zones of the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. The gold supply chain is complex and it is estimated that the rules will only cover 1% of annual worldwide gold production. The rules are likely to add to Signet’s costs, but this increase is not expected to be material. It is possible, but uncertain, that these rules could adversely impact Signet in other ways. The failure to satisfy the accounting requirements for ‘hedge accounting’, or default or insolvency of a counterparty to a hedging contract, could adversely impact results Signet hedges a portion of its purchases of gold for both its US and UK divisions and US dollar requirements of its UK division. The failure to satisfy the requirements of the appropriate accounting requirements, or default or insolvency of a counterparty to a contract, could increase the volatility of results and may impact the timing of recognition of gains and losses in the income statement. The inability of Signet to obtain merchandise that customers wish to purchase, particularly ahead of and during, the fourth quarter would adversely impact sales The abrupt loss or disruption of any significant supplier during the three month period (August to October) leading up to the fourth quarter would result in a material adverse effect on Signet’s business. Also, if management misjudges expected customer demand, or fails to identify such changes and its supply chain does not respond in a timely manner, it could adversely impact Signet’s results by causing either a shortage of merchandise or an accumulation of excess inventory. Signet benefits from close commercial relationships with a number of suppliers. Damage to, or loss of, any of these relationships could have a detrimental effect on results. Management holds regular reviews with major suppliers. Signet’s most significant supplier accounts for 6% of merchandise. 29 Table of Contents The luxury and prestige watch manufacturers and distributors normally grant agencies to sell their ranges on a store by store basis, and most of the leading brands have been steadily reducing the number of agencies over recent years. The watch brands sold by Ernest Jones, and to a lesser extent Jared, help attract customers and build sales in all categories. Therefore an inability to obtain or retain watch agencies for a location could harm the performance of that particular store. In the case of Ernest Jones, the inability to gain additional prestige watch agencies is an important factor in, and does reduce the likelihood of, opening new stores, which could adversely impact sales growth. The growth in importance of branded merchandise within the jewelry market may adversely impact Signet’s sales and earnings if it is unable to obtain supplies of branded merchandise that the customer wishes to purchase. In addition, if Signet loses the distribution rights to an important branded jewelry range, it could adversely impact sales and earnings. Signet has had success in recent years in the development of branded merchandise that is exclusive to its stores. If Signet is not able to further develop such branded merchandise, or is unable to successfully develop new such initiatives, it may adversely impact sales and earnings. An inability to recruit, train and retain suitably qualified sales associates could adversely impact sales and earnings In specialty jewelry retailing, the level and quality of customer service is a key competitive factor as nearly every in-store transaction involves the sales associate taking a piece of jewelry or a watch out of a display case and presenting it to the potential customer. Therefore an inability to recruit, train and retain suitably qualified sales associates could adversely impact sales and earnings. Loss of confidence by consumers in Signet’s brand names, poor execution of marketing programs and reduced marketing expenditure could have a detrimental impact on sales Primary factors in determining customer buying decisions in the jewelry sector include customer confidence in the retailer and in the brands it sells, together with the level and quality of customer service. The ability to differentiate Signet’s stores and merchandise from competitors by its branding, marketing and advertising programs is an important factor in attracting consumers. If these programs are poorly executed or the level of support for them is reduced, or the customer loses confidence in any of Signet’s brands for whatever reason, it could harm Signet’s ability to attract customers. The DTC promotes diamonds and diamond jewelry in the US. The level of support provided by the DTC and the success of the promotions influence the size of the total jewelry market in the US. As the DTC’s market share has significantly reduced, it is changing its approach from generic marketing support of diamonds to one more closely associated with its efforts to develop its own brands. The impact of the loss of generic marketing support is currently unknown and could unfavorably impact the overall market for diamonds and diamond jewelry and adversely impact Signet’s sales and earnings. Long term changes in consumer attitudes to jewelry could be unfavorable and harm jewelry sales Consumer attitudes to diamonds, gold and other precious metals and gemstones also influence the level of Signet’s sales. Attitudes could be affected by a variety of issues including concern over the source of raw materials; the impact of mining and refining of minerals on the environment, the local community and the political stability of the producing country; labor conditions in the supply chain; and the availability and consumer attitudes to substitute products such as cubic zirconia, moissanite and of laboratory created diamonds. A negative change in consumer attitudes to jewelry could adversely impact sales. 30 Table of Contents The retail jewelry industry is highly fragmented and competitive. Aggressive discounting or “going out of business” sales by competitors may adversely impact Signet’s performance in the short term The retail jewelry industry is competitive. If Signet’s competitive position deteriorates, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. Aggressive discounting by competitors, particularly those facing financial pressures or holding “going out of business” sales, may adversely impact Signet’s performance in the short term. This is particularly the case for easily comparable pieces of jewelry, of similar quality, sold through stores that are situated near to those that Signet operates. As a result of the growth of Jared and the development of Kay outside of its enclosed mall base, the US division is increasingly competing with independent specialty jewelry retailers that are able to adjust their competitive stance, for example on pricing, to local market conditions. This can put individual stores at a competitive disadvantage as the US division has a national pricing strategy. Price increases may have an adverse impact on Signet’s performance If significant price increases are implemented, by either division, across a wide range of merchandise, the impact on earnings will depend on, among other factors, the pricing by competitors of similar products and the response by the consumer to higher prices. Such price increases may result in lower achieved gross margin dollars and adversely impact earnings. While Signet’s major competitors are other specialty jewelers, Signet also faces competition from other retailers including department stores, discount stores, apparel outlets and internet retailers that sell jewelry. In addition, other retail categories, for example electronics, and other forms of expenditure, such as travel, also compete for consumers’ discretionary expenditure. This is particularly so during the Christmas gift giving season. Therefore the price of jewelry relative to other products influences the proportion of consumers’ expenditure that is spent on jewelry. If the relative price of jewelry increases, Signet’s sales may decline. The inability to rent stores that satisfy management’s operational and financial criteria could harm sales, as could changes in locations where customers shop Signet’s results are dependent on a number of factors relating to its stores. These include the availability of desirable property, the demographic characteristics of the area around the store, the design and maintenance of the stores, the availability of attractive locations within the shopping center that also meet the operational and financial criteria of management, the terms of leases and its relationship with major landlords. The US division leases 16% of its store locations from Simon Property Group and 13% from General Growth Management. Signet has no other relationship with any lessor relating to 10% or more of its store locations. If Signet is unable to rent stores that satisfy its operational and financial criteria, or if there is a disruption in its relationship with its major landlords, sales could be adversely affected. Given the length of property leases that Signet enters into, it is dependent upon the continued popularity of particular retail locations. As the US division continues to test and develop new types of store locations there can be no certainty as to their success. The majority of long term space growth opportunities in the US are in new developments and therefore future store space is largely dependent on the investment by real estate developers on new projects. Currently there is very limited new real estate development taking place and so the opportunities to grow store space in the US in the short term is limited. The UK division has a more diverse range of store locations than in the US, including some exposure to smaller retail centers which do not justify the investment required to refurbish the site to the current store format. Consequently the UK division is gradually closing stores in such locations as leases expire or satisfactory property transactions can be executed; however the ability to secure such property transactions is not certain. As 31 Table of Contents the UK division is already represented in nearly all major retail centers, a small annual decrease in store space is expected in the medium term which will adversely impact sales growth. The rate of new store development is dependent on a number of factors including obtaining suitable real estate, the capital resources of Signet, the availability of appropriate staff and management and the level of the financial return on investment required by management. Signet’s success is dependent on the strength and effectiveness of its relationships with its various stakeholders whose behavior may be affected by its management of social, ethical and environmental risks Social, ethical and environmental matters influence Signet’s reputation, demand for merchandise by consumers, the ability to recruit staff, relations with suppliers and standing in the financial markets. Signet’s success is dependent on the strength and effectiveness of its relationships with its various stakeholders: customers, shareholders, employees and suppliers. In recent years, stakeholder expectations have increased and Signet’s success and reputation will depend on its ability to meet these higher expectations. Inadequacies in and disruption to internal controls and systems could result in lower sales and increased costs or adversely impact the reporting and control procedures Signet is dependent on the suitability, reliability and durability of its systems and procedures, including its accounting, information technology, data protection, warehousing and distribution systems. If support ceased for a critical externally supplied software package or system, management would have to implement an alternative software package or system or begin supporting the software internally. Disruption to parts of the business could result in lower sales and increased costs. In Fiscal 2012, management plans to relocate various functions, such as external financial reporting, budgeting, management accounting and treasury functions from London, England to Akron, Ohio. This move could adversely impact Signet’s control and accounting functions in the short term. An adverse decision in legal proceedings and/or tax matters could reduce earnings In March 2008, private plaintiffs filed a class action lawsuit for an unspecified amount against Sterling Jewelers Inc. (“Sterling”), a subsidiary of Signet, in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York federal court. In September 2008, the US Equal Opportunities Commission filed a lawsuit against Sterling in U.S. District Court for the Western District of New York. Sterling denies the allegations from both parties and intends to defend them vigorously. If, however, it is unsuccessful in either defense, Sterling could be required to pay substantial damages. At any point in time, various tax years are subject to, or are in the process of, audit by various taxing authorities. To the extent that management’s estimates of settlements change, or the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact income tax in the period in which such determinations are made. Failure to comply with labor regulations could harm the business Failure by Signet to comply with labor regulations could result in fines and legal actions. In addition, the ability to recruit and retain staff could be harmed. Failure to comply with changes in law and regulations could adversely affect the business Signet’s policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations. Changing legal and regulatory requirements have increased the complexity of the regulatory environment in which the business 32 Table of Contents operates and the cost of compliance. Failure to comply with the various regulations may result in damage to Signet’s reputation, civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, and further increase the cost of regulatory compliance. Any difficulty executing an acquisition, a business combination or a major business initiative may result in expected returns and other projected benefits from such an exercise not being realized Any difficulty in executing an acquisition, a business combination or a major business initiative may result in expected returns and other projected benefits from such an exercise not being realized. A significant transaction could also disrupt the operation of its current activities. Signet’s borrowing agreements place constraints on its ability to make an acquisition or enter into a business combination. Changes in assumptions used in making accounting estimates or in accounting standards may adversely impact investor perception of the business Changes in assumptions used in making accounting estimates relating to items such as extended service plans and pensions, may adversely affect Signet’s financial results and balance sheet. Changes in accounting standards, such as those currently proposed relating to leases, could materially impact the presentation of Signet’s results and balance sheet. Investors’ reaction to any such change in presentation is unknown. Such changes could also impact compliance with borrowing covenants and the way that the business is managed. Loss of one or more key executive officers or employees could adversely impact performance, as could the appointment of an inappropriate successor or successors Signet’s future success will depend substantially upon the ability of senior management and other key employees to implement the business strategy. While Signet has entered into employment contracts with such key personnel, the retention of their services cannot be guaranteed and the loss of such services, or the inability to attract and retain talented personnel, could have a material adverse effect on Signet’s ability to conduct its business. During Fiscal 2011, a new Chief Executive Officer and a new Chief Financial Officer were recruited from outside of the business, due to the retirement of their predecessors. The new executives do not have the same level of experience in the jewelry sector as the retiring executives and may have a different management approach. In addition, the new executives may wish, subject to Board approval, to change the strategy of Signet. The appointment of new executives may therefore adversely impact performance. Investors may face difficulties in enforcing proceedings against Signet Jewelers Limited as it is domiciled in Bermuda It is doubtful whether courts in Bermuda would enforce judgments obtained by investors in other jurisdictions, including the US and the UK, against the Company or its directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda against the Company or its directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 