ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Spending on goods that are, or are perceived to be “luxuries,” such as jewelry, is discretionary and is affected by general economic conditions. Therefore, a decline in consumer spending, whether due to adverse changes in the economy, changes in tax policy or other factors that reduce our customers’ demand for our products, may unfavorably impact Signet’s future sales and earnings. Jewelry purchases are discretionary and are dependent on consumers’ perceptions of general economic conditions, particularly as jewelry is often perceived to be a luxury purchase. Adverse changes in the economy and periods when discretionary spending by consumers may be under pressure could unfavorably impact sales and earnings. The success of Signet’s operations depends to a significant extent upon a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer spending. These include economic conditions, and perceptions of such conditions by consumers, consumer confidence, employment, the rate of change in employment, the level of consumers’ disposable income and income available for discretionary expenditure, the savings ratio, business conditions, interest rates, consumer debt and asset values, availability of credit and levels of taxation for the economy as a whole and in regional and local markets where we operate. Signet’s success also depends upon its reputation for integrity in sourcing its merchandise, which, if adversely affected could impact consumer sentiment and willingness to purchase Signet’s merchandise. As 16% of Signet’s sales are accounted for by its UK division, economic conditions in the eurozone have a significant impact on the UK economy even though the UK is not a member of the eurozone. Therefore, developments in the eurozone could adversely impact trading in the UK division. In addition, developments in the eurozone could also adversely impact the US economy. We depend on shopping malls and other retail centers to attract customers to many of our stores. Many of our stores are located in shopping malls and other retail centers that benefit from the ability of “anchor” retail tenants, generally large department stores, and other attractions, to generate sufficient levels of consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores. Any decline in the volume of consumer traffic at shopping centers, whether because of the economic slowdown, a decline in the popularity of shopping centers, the closing of anchor stores or otherwise, could result in reduced sales at our stores and excess inventory. We may respond by increasing discounts or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our margins and operating results. More than half of US sales are made utilizing customer finance provided by Signet. Therefore any deterioration in the consumers’ financial position could adversely impact sales, earnings and the collectability of accounts receivable. Any significant deterioration in general economic conditions or increase in consumer debt levels may inhibit consumers’ use of credit and decrease the consumers’ ability to satisfy Signet’s requirement for access to customer finance and could in turn have an adverse effect on the US division’s sales. Furthermore, any downturn in general or local economic conditions, in particular an increase in unemployment in the markets in which the US division operates, may adversely affect its collection of outstanding accounts receivable, its net bad debt charge and hence earnings. Changes to the regulatory requirements regarding the granting of credit to customers could adversely impact sales and operating income. More than half of Signet’s US sales utilize its in-house customer financing programs and about a further 34% of purchases are made using third party bank cards. Signet’s ability to extend credit to customers and the terms on which it is achieved depends on many factors, including compliance with applicable state and federal laws and 27 Table of Contents regulations, any of which may change from time to time, and such changes in law relating to the provision of credit and associated services could adversely affect sales and income. In addition, other restrictions arising from applicable law could cause limitations in credit terms currently offered or a reduction in the level of credit granted by the US division, or by third parties, and this could adversely impact sales, income or cash flow, as could any reduction in the level of credit granted by the US division, or by third parties, as a result of the restrictions placed on fees and interest charged. The US Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was signed into law in July 2010. Among other things, the US Dodd-Frank Act creates a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection with broad rule-making and supervisory authority for a wide range of consumer financial services, including Signet’s customer finance programs. The Bureau’s authority became effective in July 2011. Any new regulatory initiatives by the Bureau could impose additional costs and/or restrictions on credit practices on the US division, which could adversely affect its ability to conduct its business. Signet’s share price may be volatile. Signet’s share price may fluctuate substantially as a result of variations in the actual or anticipated results and financial conditions of Signet and other companies in the retail industry and the stock market’s view of the potential Zale transaction. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many retail and other shares in a manner unrelated, or disproportionate to, the operating performance of these companies. The concentration of a significant proportion of sales and an even larger share of profits in the fourth quarter means results are dependent on performance during that period. Signet’s business is highly seasonal, with a significant proportion of its sales and operating profit generated during its fourth quarter, which includes the Holiday Season. Management expects to continue to experience a seasonal fluctuation in its sales and earnings. Therefore, there is limited ability to compensate for shortfalls in fourth quarter sales or earnings by changes in its operations and strategies in other quarters, or to recover from any extensive disruption, for example, due to sudden adverse changes in consumer confidence, inclement weather conditions having an impact on a significant number of stores in the last few days immediately before Christmas Day or disruption to warehousing and store replenishment systems. A significant shortfall in results for the fourth quarter of any fiscal year would therefore be expected to have a material adverse effect on the annual results of operations. Disruption at lesser peaks in sales at Valentine’s Day and Mother’s Day would be expected to impact the results to a lesser extent. Signet is dependent on a variety of financing resources to fund its operations and growth which may include equity, cash balances and debt financing. While Signet has a strong balance sheet with significant cash balances and available lines of credit, it is dependent upon the availability of equity, cash balances and debt financing to fund its operations and growth. If Signet’s access to capital were to become significantly constrained, its financing costs would likely increase, its financial condition would be harmed and future results of operations could be adversely affected. The changes in general credit market conditions also affect Signet’s ability to arrange, and the cost of arranging, credit facilities. Management prepares annual budgets, medium term plans and risk models which help to identify the future capital requirements, so that appropriate facilities can be put in place on a timely basis. If these models are inaccurate, adequate facilities may not be available. Signet’s borrowing agreements include various financial covenants and operating restrictions. A material deterioration in its financial performance could result in a covenant being breached. If Signet were to breach, or believed it was going to breach, a financial covenant it would have to renegotiate its terms with current lenders or find alternative sources of finance if current lenders required cancellation of facilities or early repayment. 28 Table of Contents In addition, Signet’s reputation in the financial markets and its corporate governance practices can influence the availability of capital, the cost of capital and its share price. As Signet has material cash balances, it is exposed to counterparty credit risks. At February 1, 2014, Signet had cash and cash equivalents of $247.6 million (February 2, 2013: $301.0 million). Signet holds its cash and cash equivalents predominantly in ‘AAA’ rated liquidity funds and in various bank accounts. If an institution or fund in which Signet invests its cash and cash equivalents were to default or become insolvent, Signet may be unable to recover these amounts or obtain access to them in a timely manner. Movements in the pound sterling to US dollar exchange rates impact the results and balance sheet of Signet. Signet publishes its consolidated annual financial statements in US dollars. It held approximately 88% of its total assets in entities whose functional currency is the US dollar at February 1, 2014 and generated approximately 84% of its sales and 93% of its operating income in US dollars for the fiscal year then ended. Nearly all the remaining assets, sales and operating income are in UK pounds sterling. Therefore, its results and balance sheet are subject to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the pound sterling and the US dollar. Accordingly, any decrease in the weighted average value of the pound sterling against the US dollar would decrease reported sales and operating income. The monthly average exchange rates are used to prepare the income statement and are calculated each month from the weekly average exchange rates weighted by sales of the UK division. Where pounds sterling are held or used to fund the cash flow requirements of the business, any decrease in the weighted average value of the pound sterling against the US dollar would reduce the amount of cash and cash equivalents and increase the amount of any pounds sterling borrowings. In addition, the prices of materials and certain products bought on the international markets by the UK division are denominated in US dollars, and therefore the UK division has an exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on the cost of goods sold. Fluctuations in the availability and pricing of commodities, particularly polished diamonds and gold, which account for the majority of Signet’s merchandise costs, could adversely impact its earnings and cash availability. The jewelry industry generally is affected by fluctuations in the price and supply of diamonds, gold and, to a lesser extent, other precious and semi-precious metals and stones. In particular, diamonds account for about 47% of Signet’s merchandise costs, and gold about 15% in Fiscal 2014. In Fiscal 2014, polished diamond prices experienced a single digit percentage increase when compared to Fiscal 2013 levels, unlike as had occurred in prior years. Industry forecasts indicate that over the medium and longer term, the demand for diamonds will probably increase faster than the growth in supply, particularly as a result of growing demand in countries such as China and India. Therefore, the cost of diamonds is anticipated to rise over time, although fluctuations in price are likely to continue to occur. The mining, production and inventory policies followed by major producers of rough diamonds can have a significant impact on diamond prices, as can the inventory and buying patterns of jewelry retailers and other parties in the supply chain. While jewelry manufacturing is the major final demand for gold, management believes that the cost of gold is predominantly impacted by investment transactions which have resulted in significant volatility and overall increases in gold cost over the past several years followed by somewhat of a decline in Fiscal 2014. Signet’s cost 29 Table of Contents of merchandise and potentially its earnings may be adversely impacted by investment market considerations that cause the price of gold to significantly escalate. The availability of diamonds is significantly influenced by the political situation in diamond producing countries and by the Kimberley Process, an inter-governmental agreement for the international trading of rough diamonds. Until acceptable alternative sources of diamonds can be developed, any sustained interruption in the supply of diamonds from significant producing countries, or to the trading in rough and polished diamonds which could occur as a result of disruption to the Kimberley Process, could adversely affect Signet, as well as the retail jewelry market as a whole. In 2012, the Kimberley Process, chaired by the United States, initiated a process to review ways to strengthen and reform the Kimberley Process, including reviewing the definition of a conflict diamond. In January 2013, South Africa became the chair, and the review process was expected to continue; however, no reform efforts were achieved. In 2014, the Kimberley Process is being chaired by China, which will be followed by Angola in 2015. In addition, the current Kimberley Process decision making procedure is dependent on reaching a consensus among member governments, which can result in the protracted resolution of issues, and there is little expectation of significant reform over the long-term. The impact of this review process on the supply of diamonds, and consumers’ perception of the diamond supply chain, is unknown. In addition to the Kimberley Process, the supply of diamonds to the US is also impacted by certain governmental trade sanctions imposed on Zimbabwe. The possibility of constraints in the supply of diamonds of a size and quality Signet requires to meet its merchandising requirements may result in changes in Signet’s supply chain practices, for example its rough sourcing initiative. In addition, Signet may from time to time choose to hold more inventory, to purchase raw materials at an earlier stage in the supply chain or enter into commercial agreements of a nature that it currently does not use. Such actions could require the investment of cash and/or additional management skills. Such actions may not result in the expected returns and other projected benefits anticipated by management. An inability to increase retail prices to reflect higher commodity costs would result in lower profitability. Historically jewelry retailers have been able, over time, to increase prices to reflect changes in commodity costs. However, in general, particularly sharp increases in commodity costs may result in a time lag before increased commodity costs are fully reflected in retail prices. As Signet uses an average cost inventory methodology, volatility in its commodity costs may also result in a time lag before cost increases are reflected in retail prices. There is no certainty that such price increases will be sustainable, so downward pressure on gross margins and earnings may occur. In addition, any sustained increases in the cost of commodities could result in the need to fund a higher level of inventory or changes in the merchandise available to the customer. In August 2012, the SEC, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, issued final rules, which require annual disclosure and reporting on the source and use of certain minerals, including gold, from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. The gold supply chain is complex and, while management believes that the rules will only cover less than 1% of annual worldwide gold production (based upon current estimates), the final rules require Signet and other jewelry retailers and manufacturers that file with the SEC to exercise reasonable due diligence in determining the country of origin of the statutorily designated minerals that are used in products sold by Signet in the US and elsewhere. Signet must first report to the SEC on our country of origin inquiries, our due diligence measures, the results of those activities, and our related determinations in May 2014, with respect to the calendar year ended December 31, 2013. Compliance with the rules to date has not and will not likely add significantly to Signet’s costs, and management does not expect this increase to be material. There may be reputational risks with customers and other stakeholders if Signet, due to the complexity of the global supply chain, is unable to sufficiently verify the origin for the relevant metals. Also, if the responses of parts of Signet’s supply chain to the verification requests are adverse, it may harm Signet’s ability to obtain merchandise and add to compliance costs. The final rules also cover tungsten and tin, which are contained in a small proportion of items that are sold by Signet. It is possible that other minerals, such as diamonds, could be subject to similar rules. 30 Table of Contents Price increases may have an adverse impact on Signet’s performance. If significant price increases are implemented, by either division, across a wide range of merchandise, the impact on earnings will depend on, among other factors, the pricing by competitors of similar products and the response by the customer to higher prices. Such price increases may result in lower achieved gross margin dollars and adversely impact earnings. Signet’s competitors are specialty jewelry retailers, as well as other jewelry retailers, including department stores, mass merchandisers, discount stores, apparel and accessory fashion stores, brand retailers, shopping clubs, home shopping television channels, direct home sellers, online retailers and auction sites. In addition, other retail categories, for example, electronics and other forms of expenditure, such as travel, also compete for consumers’ discretionary expenditure. This is particularly so during the holiday gift giving season. Therefore, the price of jewelry relative to other products influences the proportion of consumers’ expenditure that is spent on jewelry. If the relative price of jewelry increases, Signet’s sales and earnings may decline. The failure to satisfy the accounting requirements for ‘hedge accounting’, or default or insolvency of a counterparty to a hedging contract, could adversely impact results. Signet hedges a portion of its purchases of gold for both its US and UK divisions and hedges the US dollar requirements of its UK division. The failure to satisfy the requirements of the appropriate accounting requirements, or a default or insolvency of a counterparty to a contract, could increase the volatility of results and may impact the timing of recognition of gains and losses in the income statement. The inability of Signet to obtain merchandise that customers wish to purchase, particularly ahead of and during, the fourth quarter would adversely impact sales. The abrupt loss or disruption of any significant supplier during the three month period (August to October) leading up to the fourth quarter would result in a material adverse effect on Signet’s business. Also, if management misjudges expected customer demand, or fails to identify changes in customer demand and/or its supply chain does not respond in a timely manner, it could adversely impact Signet’s results by causing either a shortage of merchandise or an accumulation of excess inventory. Signet benefits from close commercial relationships with a number of suppliers. Damage to, or loss of, any of these relationships could have a detrimental effect on results. Management holds regular reviews with major suppliers. Signet’s most significant supplier accounts for 6% of merchandise. Government requirements regarding sources of commodities, such as those required by the Dodd-Frank Act, could result in Signet choosing to terminate relationships with a limited number of suppliers. Luxury and prestige watch manufacturers and distributors normally grant agencies to sell their ranges on a store by store basis, and most of the leading brands have been steadily reducing the number of agencies in the US and the UK over recent years. The watch brands sold by Ernest Jones, and to a lesser extent Jared, help attract customers and build sales in all categories. Therefore an inability to obtain or retain watch agencies for a location could harm the performance of that particular store. In the case of Ernest Jones, the inability to gain additional prestige watch agencies is an important factor in, and may reduce the likelihood of, opening new stores, which could adversely impact sales growth. The growth in importance of branded merchandise within the jewelry market may adversely impact Signet’s sales and earnings if it is unable to obtain supplies of branded merchandise that the customer wishes to purchase. In addition, if Signet loses the distribution rights to an important branded jewelry range, it could adversely impact sales and earnings. 31 Table of Contents Signet has had success in recent years in the development of branded merchandise that is exclusive to its stores. If Signet is not able to further develop such branded merchandise, or is unable to successfully develop further such initiatives, it may adversely impact sales and earnings. An inability to recruit, train, motivate and retain suitably qualified sales associates could adversely impact sales and earnings. Management regards the customer experience as an essential element in the success of its business. Competition for suitable individuals or changes in labor and healthcare laws could require us to incur higher labor costs. Therefore an inability to recruit, train, motivate and retain suitably qualified sales associates could adversely impact sales and earnings. Loss of confidence by consumers in Signet’s brand names, poor execution of marketing programs and reduced marketing expenditure could have a detrimental impact on sales. Primary factors in determining customer buying decisions in the jewelry sector include customer confidence in the retailer and in the brands it sells, together with the level and quality of customer service. The ability to differentiate Signet’s stores and merchandise from competitors by its branding, marketing and advertising programs is an important factor in attracting consumers. If these programs are poorly executed or the level of support for them is reduced, or the customer loses confidence in any of Signet’s brands for whatever reason, it could unfavorably impact sales and earnings. Long-term changes in consumer attitudes to jewelry could be unfavorable and harm jewelry sales. Consumer attitudes to diamonds, gold and other precious metals and gemstones also influence the level of Signet’s sales. Attitudes could be affected by a variety of issues including concern over the source of raw materials; the impact of mining and refining of minerals on the environment, the local community and the political stability of the producing country; labor conditions in the supply chain; and the availability of and consumer attitudes to substitute products such as cubic zirconia, moissanite and laboratory created diamonds. A negative change in consumer attitudes to jewelry could adversely impact sales and earnings. The retail jewelry industry is highly fragmented and competitive. Aggressive discounting or “going out of business” sales by competitors may adversely impact Signet’s performance in the short term. The retail jewelry industry is competitive. If Signet’s competitive position deteriorates, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. Aggressive discounting by competitors, particularly those holding “going out of business” sales, may adversely impact Signet’s performance in the short term. This is particularly the case for easily comparable pieces of jewelry, of similar quality, sold through stores that are situated near to those that Signet operates. The US division faces significant competition from independent specialty jewelry retailers that are able to adjust their competitive stance, for example on pricing, to local market conditions. This can put individual Signet stores at a competitive disadvantage as the US division has a national pricing strategy. The inability to rent stores that satisfy management’s operational and financial criteria could harm sales, as could changes in locations where customers shop. Signet’s results are dependent on a number of factors relating to its stores. These include the availability of desirable property, the demographic characteristics of the area around the store, the design, and maintenance of the stores, the availability of attractive locations within the shopping center that also meet the operational and financial criteria of management, the terms of leases and Signet’s relationship with major landlords. The US division leases 19% of its store locations from Simon Property Group. Signet has no other relationship with any lessor relating to 10% or more of its store locations. If Signet is unable to rent stores that satisfy its operational 32 Table of Contents and financial criteria, or if there is a disruption in its relationship with its major landlords, sales could be adversely affected. Given the length of property leases that Signet enters into, it is dependent upon the continued popularity of particular retail locations. As Signet tests and develops new types of store locations and designs, there is no certainty as to their success. The majority of long-term space growth opportunities in the US are in new developments and therefore future store space is in part dependent on the investment by real estate developers on new projects. Limited new real estate development taking place would make it challenging to identify and secure suitable new store locations. The UK division has a more diverse range of store locations than in the US, including some exposure to smaller retail centers which do not justify the investment required to refurbish the site to the current store format. Consequently, the UK division is gradually closing stores in such locations as leases expire or satisfactory property transactions can be executed; however, the ability to secure such property transactions is not certain. As the UK division is already represented in nearly all major retail centers, a small annual decrease in store space is expected in the medium term which will adversely impact sales growth. The rate of new store development is dependent on a number of factors including obtaining suitable real estate, the capital resources of Signet, the availability of appropriate staff and management and the level of the financial return on investment required by management. Signet’s success is dependent on the strength and effectiveness of its relationships with its various stakeholders whose behavior may be affected by its management of social, ethical and environmental risks. Social, ethical and environmental matters influence Signet’s reputation, demand for merchandise by consumers, the ability to recruit staff, relations with suppliers and standing in the financial markets. Signet’s success is dependent on the strength and effectiveness of its relationships with its various stakeholders: customers, shareholders, employees and suppliers. In recent years, stakeholder expectations have increased and Signet’s success and reputation will depend on its ability to meet these higher expectations. Inadequacies in and disruption to internal controls and systems could result in lower sales and increased costs or adversely impact the reporting and control procedures. Signet is dependent on the suitability, reliability and durability of its systems and procedures, including its accounting, information technology, data protection, warehousing and distribution systems. If support ceased for a critical externally supplied software package or system, management would have to implement an alternative software package or system or begin supporting the software internally. Disruption to parts of the business could result in lower sales and increased costs. Security breaches and other disruptions to Signet’s information technology infrastructure and databases could interfere with Signet’s operations, and could compromise Signet’s and its customers’ and suppliers’ information, exposing Signet to liability which would cause Signet’s business and reputation to suffer. Signet operates in multiple channels and, in the US division, maintains its own customer finance operation. Signet is also increasingly using mobile devices, social media and other online activities to connect with customers, staff and other stakeholders. Therefore, in the ordinary course of business, Signet relies upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including eCommerce sales, supply chain, merchandise distribution, customer invoicing and collection of payments. Signet uses information technology systems to record, process and summarize financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements. Additionally, Signet collects and stores sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, the propriety business information of our customers and suppliers, as well as personally identifiable information of Signet’s customers and employees, in data centers and on information technology networks. The secure operation of these information technology networks, and the processing and 33 Table of Contents maintenance of this information is critical to Signet’s business operations and strategy. Despite security measures and business continuity plans, Signet’s information technology networks and infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by hackers or breaches due to employee error or malfeasance, or other disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures or natural disasters or other catastrophic events. The occurrence of any of these events could compromise Signet’s networks and the information stored there could be accessed, manipulated, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disrupt operations, and damage Signet’s reputation, which could adversely affect Signet’s business. In addition, it could harm Signet’s ability to execute its business and adversely impact sales, costs and earnings. An adverse decision in legal proceedings and/or tax matters could reduce earnings. In March 2008, private plaintiffs filed a class action lawsuit for an unspecified amount against Sterling Jewelers Inc. (“Sterling”), a subsidiary of Signet, in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, which has been referred to private arbitration. In September 2008, the US Equal Employment Opportunities Commission filed a lawsuit against Sterling in U.S. District Court for the Western District of New York. Sterling denies the allegations from both parties and has been defending these cases vigorously. If, however, it is unsuccessful in either defense, Sterling could be required to pay substantial damages. At this point, no outcome or amount of loss is able to be estimated. See Note 22 in Item 8. At any point in time, various tax years are subject to, or are in the process of, audit by various taxing authorities. To the extent that management’s estimates of settlements change, or the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact income tax in the period in which such determinations are made. Failure to comply with labor regulations could harm the business. Failure by Signet to comply with labor regulations could result in fines and legal actions. In addition, the ability to recruit and retain staff could be harmed. Failure to comply with changes in law and regulations could adversely affect the business. Signet’s policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations. Changing legal and regulatory requirements have increased the complexity of the regulatory environment in which the business operates and the cost of compliance. Failure to comply with the various regulatory requirements may result in damage to Signet’s reputation, civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, and further increase the cost of regulatory compliance. Changes in tax legislation, for example, the elimination of LIFO for US tax accounting purposes, could adversely impact cash flow. Investors may face difficulties in enforcing proceedings against Signet Jewelers Limited as it is domiciled in Bermuda. It is doubtful whether courts in Bermuda would enforce judgments obtained by investors in other jurisdictions, including the US and the UK, against the Parent Company or its directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda against the Parent Company or its directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. Any difficulty executing an acquisition, a business combination or a major business initiative may result in expected returns and other projected benefits from such an exercise not being realized. Any difficulty in executing an acquisition, a business combination or a major business initiative, including its direct diamond sourcing capabilities, may result in expected returns and other projected benefits from such an 34 Table of Contents exercise not being realized. The acquisition of companies with operating margins lower than that of Signet may cause an overall lower operating margin for Signet. A significant transaction could also disrupt the operation of its current activities. Signet’s current borrowing agreements place certain limited constraints on its ability to make an acquisition or enter into a business combination, and future borrowing agreements could place tighter constraints on such actions. Proposed Acquisition—Signet’s proposed acquisition of Zale is subject to Zale stockholder approval, certain regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions and the expected benefits from the acquisition may not be fully realized. On February 19, 2014, Signet entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with Zale to acquire all of Zale’s issued and outstanding common stock for $21.00 per share in cash consideration with an approximate transaction value of $1.4 billion including net debt. Although Signet has entered into a voting and support agreement with Golden Gate Capital, the beneficial owner of approximately 22% of Zale’s common stock, Signet cannot predict whether Zale stockholder approval will be obtained or whether or when the required regulatory approvals under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (“HSR”) will be obtained or if the closing conditions will be satisfied. A failure to close the transaction or significant delays in doing so may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) may condition the approval of the acquisition on divestiture of certain assets, including the divestiture of certain stores, which, if agreed to by Signet, may materially affect the anticipated benefits of the proposed acquisition, and there can be no assurance that such divestiture can be completed on terms satisfactory to Signet and the FTC. Under the Merger Agreement, Signet is not required to take any actions to obtain antitrust approvals that would, individually or in the aggregate, result in (i) the loss of revenue of Zale in excess of $135.0 million, (ii) the loss of sales of Signet in excess of $135.0 million or (iii) the combination of losses of revenues of Zale and sales of Signet in excess of $135.0 million in the aggregate, in each case as measured by such party’s Fiscal 2013 revenue or sales, respectively, reported in its annual audited financial statements for such year. The Merger Agreement also includes customary termination provisions for both Zale and Signet and provides that, in connection with the termination of the Merger Agreement by Signet or Zale, under certain specified circumstances Zale will be required to pay Signet a termination fee of $26.7 million. Signet may also be required to pay Zale a termination fee of $53.4 million if anti-trust clearance is not received prior to February 19, 2015 (or May 15, 2015 if all conditions to closing other than regulatory approval have been obtained prior to that date). In the event that either party terminates the Merger Agreement because Zale’s stockholders do not adopt the Merger Agreement following the making of a competing offer, Zale will be required to reimburse Signet for its expenses in an amount not exceeding $12.5 million. Signet expects to issue at least $1.4 billion of debt during the second half of Fiscal 2015 to fund the planned acquisition of Zale, which will significantly increase Signet’s outstanding debt. This additional indebtedness will require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow to servicing this debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash to fund other business initiatives, including dividends and share repurchases. If the transaction closes, significant changes to Signet’s financial condition as a result of global economic changes or difficulties in the integration or execution of strategies of the newly acquired business, and the diversion of significant management time and resources towards completion of the transaction and integrating the business and operations of Zale may affect our ability to obtain the expected benefits from the transaction or to satisfy the financial covenants included in the terms of the financing arrangements. If Signet’s financing for the transaction becomes unavailable, the transaction may not be completed and we may be in breach of the Merger Agreement. We intend to finance the cash required in connection with the transaction, including for expenses incurred in connection with the transaction, with debt financing of approximately $1.4 billion, which includes $600 million in securitization of Signet’s US accounts receivable and $800 million in other debt financing. Signet has secured a commitment for an $800 million 364-day unsecured bridge facility and a $400 million 5-year unsecured term loan facility in connection with the transaction. The bridge facility is expected to be replaced by permanent financing in due course. The bridge facility and the term loan facility contain customary fees which will be 35 Table of Contents recorded as an expense in Fiscal 2015, with additional interest expense dependent on the timing of borrowings and closing of the transaction. The obligation of the lenders to provide the debt financing is subject to various customary closing conditions. In the event any of the closing conditions is not satisfied or waived, or to the extent one or more of the lenders is unwilling to, or unable to, fund its commitments under the debt financing, we may be required to seek alternative financing or fund the cash required in connection with the transaction ourselves. Due to the fact that there is no financing or funding condition in the Merger Agreement, if we are unable to obtain funding from our financing sources for the cash required in connection with the transaction, we would be in breach of the Merger Agreement assuming all other conditions to closing are satisfied and may be liable to Zale for damages. Signet will incur transaction-related costs in connection with the transaction. We expect to incur a number of non-recurring transaction-related costs associated with completing the transaction, combining the operations of the two companies and achieving desired synergies. These fees and costs may be substantial. Non-recurring transaction costs include, but are not limited to, fees paid to legal, financial and accounting advisors, regulatory filing fees and printing costs. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of our and Zale’s businesses. There can be no assurance that the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the two businesses, as well as the elimination of certain duplicative costs, will offset the incremental transaction-related costs over time. Thus, any net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, the long term or at all. Although we anticipate that Zale will continue to operate as a separate brand within Signet, failure to successfully combine Signet’s and Zale’s businesses in the expected time frame may adversely affect the future results of the combined company. The success of the proposed transaction will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies from combining our and Zale’s businesses. To realize these anticipated benefits, the businesses must be successfully combined. If the combined company is not able to achieve these objectives, or is not able to achieve these objectives on a timely basis, the anticipated benefits of the transaction may not be realized fully or at all. In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, which could reduce the anticipated benefits of the transaction. These integration difficulties could result in declines in the market value of our common stock. Purported stockholder class action complaints have been filed against Zale, Signet, the members of Zale’s board of directors and Signet’s merger subsidiary, challenging the transaction, and an unfavorable judgment or ruling in these lawsuits could prevent or delay the consummation of the proposed transaction and result in substantial costs. In connection with the proposed transaction, purported stockholders of Zale have filed purported stockholder class action lawsuits in the Delaware Court of Chancery. Those lawsuits name as defendants Zale, Signet, the members of the board of directors of Zale, and Signet’s merger subsidiary. Among other remedies, the plaintiffs seek to enjoin the proposed transaction. If a final settlement is not reached, or if a dismissal is not obtained, these lawsuits could prevent and/or delay completion of the transaction and result in substantial costs to Zale and us, including any costs associated with the indemnification of directors. Additional lawsuits may be filed against Zale and us, our merger subsidiary and Zale’s directors related to the proposed transaction. The defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim may adversely affect the combined company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in assumptions used in making accounting estimates or in accounting standards may adversely impact investor perception of the business. Changes in assumptions used in making accounting estimates relating to items such as extended service plans and pensions, may adversely affect Signet’s financial results and balance sheet. Changes in accounting standards, 36 Table of Contents such as those currently being considered relating to leases, could materially impact the presentation of Signet’s results and balance sheet. Investors’ reaction to any such change in presentation is unknown. Such changes could also impact the way that the business is managed and access to the credit markets. Loss of one or more key executive officers or employees could adversely impact performance, as could the appointment of an inappropriate successor or successors. Signet’s future success will partly depend upon the ability of senior management and other key employees to implement an appropriate business strategy. While Signet has entered into employment contracts with such key personnel, the retention of their services cannot be guaranteed and the loss of such services, or the inability to attract and retain talented personnel, could have a material adverse effect on Signet’s ability to conduct its business. In addition, any new executives may wish, subject to Board approval, to change the strategy of Signet. The appointment of new executives may therefore adversely impact performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 