ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Spending on goods that are, or are perceived to be “luxuries”, such as jewelry, is discretionary and is affected by general economic conditions. Therefore adverse changes in the economy may unfavorably impact Signet’s sales and earnings Jewelry purchases are discretionary and are dependent on general economic conditions, particularly as jewelry is often perceived to be a luxury purchase. Adverse changes in the economy and periods when discretionary spending by consumers may be under pressure, such as those currently being experienced, may unfavorably impact sales and earnings. The success of Signet’s operations depends to a significant extent upon a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer spending. These include economic conditions, and perceptions of such conditions by consumers, consumer confidence, employment, the rate of change in employment, the level of consumers’ disposable income and income available for discretionary expenditure, the savings ratio, business conditions, interest rates, consumer debt and asset values, availability of credit and levels of taxation for the economy as a whole and in regional and local markets where it operates. About half of US sales are made utilizing credit provided by Signet. Therefore any deterioration in the consumers’ financial position could adversely impact sales and earnings Any significant deterioration in general economic conditions or increase in consumer debt levels may inhibit consumers’ use of credit and decrease the consumers’ ability to satisfy Signet’s requirement to authorize credit and could in turn have an adverse effect on the US division’s sales. Furthermore, any downturn in general or local economic conditions, in particular an increase in unemployment, in the markets in which the US division operates may adversely affect its collection of outstanding credit accounts receivable, its net bad debt charge and hence earnings. Changes to the regulatory requirements regarding the granting of credit to customers could adversely impact sales and operating income About half of US sales utilize in-house customer financing programs and about a further 39 per cent of purchases are made using third party credit cards. The ability to extend credit to customers and the terms on which it is achieved depends on many factors, including compliance with applicable state and federal laws and regulations, any of which may change from time to time, and any change in regulations, or the application of regulations, relating to the provision of credit and associated services could adversely affect sales and income. In the US, certain new provisions of the Truth in Lending Act became effective on February 22, 2010 with further provisions expected to be introduced in August 2010, which limit the US division’s ability to charge fees and interest in relation to the provision of customer financing. Management estimates that this will have an adverse impact on operating income of between $15 million and $20 million in fiscal 2011 and by $20 million and $25 million in a full year. In addition, other restrictions and regulations arising from applicable law could cause limitations in credit terms currently offered or a reduction in the level of credit granted by the US division, or by third parties and this could adversely impact sales, income or cash flow, as could any reduction in the level of credit granted by the US division, or by third parties, as a result of the restrictions placed on fees and interest charged. Signet’s share price may be volatile Signet’s share price may fluctuate substantially as a result of variations in the actual or anticipated financial results and financing conditions of Signet and of other companies in the retail industry. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many retail and other shares in a manner unrelated, or disproportionate to, the operating performance of these companies. 31 Table of Contents Restrictions on the Signet’s ability to make distributions to shareholders may adversely impact the share price In light of the adverse impact of the economic downturn on Signet’s financial performance, and the outlook in the medium term, in January 2009, the Board decided that it was inappropriate to make any form of distribution to shareholders. In addition, the amended revolving credit facility agreement and amended note purchase agreement entered into on March 13, 2009 contain terms that prohibit the Company from making distributions to shareholders (see page 77) until February 2011. Thereafter, until the private placement notes have been repaid there are restrictions on the Company’s ability to make shareholder distributions. As such, the Company can give no assurances that any form of distribution will be made to shareholders in the medium term. The concentration of a significant proportion of sales and an even larger share of profits in the fourth quarter means results are dependent on the performance during that period Signet’s business is highly seasonal, with a significant proportion of its sales and operating profit generated during its fourth quarter, which includes the Christmas season. Management expects to continue to experience a seasonal fluctuation in its sales and earnings. Therefore there is limited ability to compensate for shortfalls in fourth quarter sales or earnings by changes in its operations and strategies in other quarters, or to recover from any extensive disruption, for example due to sudden adverse changes in consumer confidence, inclement weather conditions having an impact on a significant number of stores in the last few days immediately before Christmas Day or disruption to warehousing and store replenishment systems. A significant shortfall in results for the fourth quarter of any fiscal year would therefore be expected to have a material adverse effect on the annual results of operations. Disruption at lesser peaks in sales at Valentine’s Day and Mother’s Day would impact the results to a lesser extent. Signet is dependent upon the availability of equity and debt financing to fund its operations While Signet has a strong balance sheet with significant cash balances and available lines of credit, it is dependent upon, to some extent, the availability of equity and debt financing to help fund its operations and growth. If Signet’s access to capital were to become significantly constrained, its financing costs would likely increase, its financial condition would be harmed and future results of operations could be adversely affected. The changes in general credit market conditions also affect Signet’s ability to arrange, and the cost of arranging, credit facilities. Management prepares annual budgets, medium term plans and headroom models which help to identify the future capital requirements, so that appropriate facilities can be put in place on a timely basis. If these models are inaccurate, adequate facilities may not be available. Signet’s borrowing agreements include various financial covenants and operating restrictions. A material deterioration in its financial performance could result in a covenant being breached. If Signet were to breach a financial covenant it would have to renegotiate its terms with current lenders or find alternative sources of finance if current lenders required early repayment. In addition, Signet’s reputation in the financial markets and its corporate governance practices can influence the availability of capital, the cost of capital and its share price. As Signet has material cash balances, it is exposed to counter party risks At January 30, 2010, Signet had cash and cash equivalents of $316.2 million (January 31, 2009: $96.8 million). These balances are predominantly held in ‘AAA’ rated liquidity funds and also with various banks. If a liquidity fund were to default or one of the banks were to become bankrupt, Signet may be unable to recover these amounts or obtain access to them in a timely manner. 32 Table of Contents Movements in the pound sterling to US dollar exchange rates impact the results and balance sheet of Signet Signet publishes its consolidated annual financial statements in US dollars. It held approximately 87% of its total assets in US dollars at January 30, 2010 and generated approximately 78% of its sales and 85% of its operating income in US dollars for the fiscal year then ended. The remainder of Signet’s assets, sales and operating income are in the UK. Therefore its results and balance sheet are subject to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the pound sterling and the US dollar. Accordingly, any decrease in the weighted average value of the pound sterling against the US dollar would decrease reported sales and operating income. The average exchange rate is used to prepare the income statement and is calculated from the weekly average exchange rates weighted by sales of the UK Division. As a result, Signet’s results are particularly impacted by movements in the fourth quarter of its fiscal year, with the exchange rate in the first three weeks of December having the largest impact on the average exchange rate used. A movement in the year to date exchange rate from that in the prior quarter in a particular fiscal year will result in that quarter’s results being impacted by adjustments to sales and costs in prior quarters to reflect the changed year to date exchange rate. This can have a particularly noticeable impact on results for the third quarter. In addition, as the UK division’s selling, general and administrative expenses are spread more evenly between quarters than its sales, these expenses can be particularly impacted in the fourth quarter. Where pounds sterling are held or used to fund the cash flow requirements of the business, any decrease in the weighted average value of the pound sterling against the US dollar would reduce the amount of consolidated cash and cash equivalents and increase the amount of consolidated borrowings. In addition, the prices of materials and certain products bought on the international markets by the UK division are denominated in US dollars, and therefore the division has an exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on the cost of goods sold. Fluctuations in the availability and pricing of polished diamonds and gold, which account for the majority of Signet’s merchandise costs, could adversely impact its earnings The jewelry industry generally is affected by fluctuations in the price and supply of diamonds, gold and, to a lesser extent, other precious and semi-precious metals and stones. An inability to increase retail prices to reflect higher commodity costs would result in lower profitability. Historically jewelry retailers have been able, over time, to increase prices to reflect changes in commodity costs. However, particularly sharp increases and volatility in commodity costs usually result in a time lag before increased commodity costs are fully reflected in retail prices. There is no certainty that such price increases will be sustainable, so downward pressure on gross merchandise margins (see page 57 for definition) and earnings may occur. Diamonds are the largest product category sold by Signet. The supply and price of diamonds in the principal world markets are significantly influenced by a single entity—the Diamond Trading Company (“DTC”), a subsidiary of De Beers Consolidated Mines Limited. The DTC’s share of the diamond supply chain has decreased over recent years and this may result in more volatility in rough diamond prices. The availability of diamonds is to some extent dependent on the political situation in diamond producing countries. Until alternative sources can be developed, any sustained interruption in the supply of diamonds from the significant producing countries could adversely affect Signet and the retail jewelry industry as a whole. Due to the sharp decline in demand for diamonds in the second half of fiscal 2009 and in the first six months of fiscal 2010, particularly in the US which accounts for about 40% of worldwide demand, the supply chain was overstocked with polished diamonds. Combined with the reduced levels of credit availability, the over supply of 33 Table of Contents diamonds resulted in decreases in the price of loose polished diamonds of all sizes and qualities. This was particularly marked in diamonds larger, and of better quality, than the type that Signet typically purchases. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, the price of polished diamonds purchased by Signet increased but remained below the level of fiscal 2009. The cost of diamonds may increase further during fiscal 2011. As a result of the overstocked position many major rough diamond producers very significantly reduced the supply of rough diamonds, particularly in the first half of fiscal 2010. The future level of supply of rough diamonds and the demand for polished diamonds is unknown, and this could result in volatility in the cost of diamonds to Signet. It is forecast that over the medium and longer term, the demand for diamonds will probably increase faster than the growth in supply; therefore the cost of diamonds is anticipated to rise over time, although short term fluctuations in price may occur. While jewelry manufacture is the major final demand for gold, the cost of gold is currently driven by investment transactions which have resulted in a significant increase in its cost. Therefore Signet’s cost of merchandise and potentially its earnings may be adversely impacted by investment market considerations. The failure to satisfy the accounting requirements for ‘hedge accounting’, or default or bankruptcy of a counter party to a hedging contract, could adversely impact results Signet hedges some of its purchases of gold and US dollar requirements of its UK division. The failure to satisfy the requirements of the appropriate accounting requirements, or default or bankruptcy of a counterparty to a contract, could increase the volatility of results and may impact the timing of recognition of gains and losses in the income statement. The inability of Signet to obtain merchandise that customers wish to purchase, particularly ahead of, and during, the fourth quarter, would adversely impact sales The abrupt loss or disruption of any significant supplier during the three month period (August to October) leading up to the fourth quarter would result in a material adverse effect on Signet’s business. The sharp downturn in world diamond sales, the increased level of bankruptcies among jewelry retailers and the considerable worldwide tightening in credit availability has increased the probability that a supplier may cease trading. Also, if management misjudges expected customer demand, or fails to identify such changes and its supply chain does not respond in a timely manner, it could adversely impact Signet’s results by causing either a shortage of merchandise or an accumulation of excess inventory. Signet benefits from close commercial relationships with a number of suppliers. Damage to, or loss of, any of these relationships could have a detrimental effect on results. Management holds regular reviews with major suppliers. Signet’s most significant supplier accounts for 5% of merchandise. The luxury and prestige watch manufacturers and distributors normally grant agencies to sell their ranges on a store by store basis, and most of the leading brands have been steadily reducing the number of agencies over recent years. The watch brands sold by Ernest Jones, and to a lesser extent Jared, help attract customers and build sales in all categories. Therefore an inability to obtain or retain watch agencies for a location could harm the performance of that particular store. In the case of Ernest Jones, the inability to gain additional prestige watch agencies is an important factor in, and does reduce the likelihood of, opening new stores, which could adversely impact sales growth. 34 Table of Contents An inability to recruit, train and retain suitably qualified staff could adversely impact sales and earnings In specialty jewelry retailing, the level and quality of customer service is a key competitive factor as nearly every in-store transaction involves the sales associate taking a piece of jewelry or a watch out of a display case and presenting it to the potential customer. Therefore an inability to recruit, train and retain suitably qualified sales staff could adversely impact sales and earnings. Loss of confidence by consumers in Signet’s brand names, poor execution of marketing programs and reduced marketing expenditure could have a detrimental impact on sales Primary factors in determining customer buying decisions in the jewelry sector include customer confidence in the retailer together with the level and quality of customer service. The ability to differentiate Signet’s stores from competitors by its branding, marketing and advertising programs is an important factor in attracting consumers. If these programs are poorly executed or the level of support for them is reduced, it could harm the ability of Signet to attract customers. The DTC promotes diamonds and diamond jewelry in the US. The level of support provided by the DTC and the success of the promotions influence the size of the total jewelry market in the US. As the DTC’s market share has significantly reduced, it is changing its approach from generic marketing support of diamonds to one more closely associated with its own efforts to develop a brand such as the “Forevermark” and “Everlon.” The impact of the loss of generic marketing support is currently unknown and could unfavorably impact the overall market for diamonds and diamond jewelry and adversely impact sales and earnings. The retail jewelry industry is highly fragmented and competitive. Aggressive discounting or “going out of business sales” by competitors may adversely impact Signet’s performance in the short term The retail jewelry industry is competitive. If Signet’s competitive position deteriorates, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. Aggressive discounting by competitors, particularly those facing financial pressures or holding ‘going out of business sales’, may adversely impact Signet’s performance in the short term. This is particularly the case for easily comparable pieces of jewelry, of similar quality, sold through stores that are situated near to those that Signet operates. Management believes that a further above normal reduction in the number of US specialty jewelry stores is likely in fiscal 2011 and that further restructuring within the sector may occur which could result in aggressive discounting of competitors’ merchandise. In particular, Signet’s largest specialty jewelry competitor in the US, Zale Corporation, reported in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on March 11, 2010 that “Based on our cash flow projections for the remainder of calendar 2010, we may not have sufficient liquidity to meet our operating needs.” The impact of all the foregoing on the competitive environment in which Signet operates is uncertain. As a result of the growth of Jared and the development of Kay outside of its enclosed mall base, the US division is increasingly competing with independent specialty jewelry retailers that are able to adjust their competitive stance, for example on pricing, to local market conditions. This can put individual stores at a competitive disadvantage as the US division has a national pricing strategy. Price increases may have an adverse impact on Signet’s performance If significant price increases are implemented by either division across a wide range of merchandise, the impact on earnings will depend on, among other factors, the pricing by competitors of similar products and the response by the consumer to higher prices. Such price increases may result in lower achieved gross merchandise margin dollars and adversely impact earnings. While Signet’s major competitors are other specialty jewelers, Signet also faces competition from other retailers including department stores, discount stores, apparel outlets and internet retailers that sell jewelry. In addition, 35 Table of Contents other retail categories, for example electronics, and other forms of expenditure, such as travel, also compete for consumers’ discretionary expenditure. This is particularly so during the Christmas gift giving season. Therefore the price of jewelry relative to other products influences the proportion of consumers’ expenditure that is spent on jewelry. If the relative price of jewelry increases, Signet’s sales may decline. Long term changes in consumer attitudes to jewelry could be unfavorable and harm jewelry sales Consumer attitudes to diamonds, gold and other precious metals and gemstones also influence the level of Signet’s sales. Attitudes could be affected by a variety of issues including concern over the source of raw materials; the impact of mining and refining of minerals on the environment, the local community and the political stability of the producing country; labor conditions in the supply chain; and the availability and consumer attitudes to substitute products such as cubic zirconia, moissanite and of laboratory created diamonds. A negative change in consumer attitudes to jewelry could adversely impact sales. The inability to rent stores that satisfy management’s operational and financial criteria could harm sales, as could changes in locations where customers shop Signet’s results are dependent on a number of factors relating to its stores. These include the availability of desirable property, the demographic characteristics of the area around the store, the design and maintenance of the stores, the availability of attractive locations within the shopping center that also meet the operational and financial criteria of management, the terms of leases and its relationship with major landlords. The US division leases 16% of its store locations from Simon Property Group and 13% from General Growth Management. In fiscal 2010, Simon Property Group made an offer to acquire General Growth Management Inc. Signet has no other relationship with any lessor relating to 10% or more of its store locations. If Signet is unable to rent stores that satisfy its operational and financial criteria, or if there is a disruption in its relationship with its major landlords, sales could be adversely affected. Given the length of property leases that Signet enters into, it is dependent upon the continued popularity of particular retail locations. As the US division continues to test and develop new types of store locations there can be no certainty as to their success. The UK division has a more diverse range of store locations than in the US, including some exposure to smaller retail centers which do not justify the investment required to refurbish the site to the current store format. Consequently the UK division is gradually closing stores in such locations as leases expire or satisfactory property transactions can be executed; however the ability to secure such property transactions is not certain. As the UK division is already represented in nearly all major retail centers, a small annual decrease in store space is expected in the medium term which will adversely impact sales growth. The rate of new store development is dependent on a number of factors including obtaining suitable real estate, the capital resources of Signet, the availability of appropriate staff and management and the level of the financial return on investment required by management. Signet’s success is dependent on the strength and effectiveness of its relationships with its various stakeholders whose behavior may be affected by its management of social, ethical and environmental risks Social, ethical and environmental matters influence Signet’s reputation, demand for merchandise by consumers, the ability to recruit staff, relations with suppliers and standing in the financial markets. Signet’s success is dependent on the strength and effectiveness of its relationships with its various stakeholders: customers, shareholders, employees and suppliers. In recent years, stakeholder expectations have increased and Signet’s success and reputation will depend on its ability to meet these higher expectations. 36 Table of Contents Inadequacies in and disruption to internal controls and systems could result in lower sales and increased costs or adversely impact the reporting and control procedures Signet is dependent on the suitability, reliability and durability of its systems and procedures, including its accounting, information technology, data protection, warehousing and distribution systems. If support ceased for a critical externally supplied software package, several of which are used in the UK division, management would have to implement an alternative software package or begin supporting the software internally. Disruption to parts of the business could result in lower sales and increased costs. In fiscal 2011, the UK division is changing its external information technology services provider. This could give rise to system disruption. In fiscal 2012, management plans to relocate various functions, such as external financial reporting, budgeting, management accounting and treasury functions from London, England to Akron, Ohio. This could result in a high level of staff turnover in those functions and disruption to systems which could adversely impact the control and accounting functions of Signet. An adverse decision in legal proceedings could reduce earnings In March 2008, private plaintiffs filed a class action lawsuit for an unspecified amount against Sterling Jewelers Inc. (“Sterling”), a subsidiary of Signet, in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York federal court. In September 2008, the US Equal Opportunities Commission filed a lawsuit against Sterling in U.S. District Court for the Western District of New York. Sterling denies the allegations from both parties and intends to defend them vigorously. If, however, it is unsuccessful in either defense, Sterling could be required to pay substantial damages. Failure to comply with labor regulations could harm the business Failure by Signet to comply with labor regulations could result in fines and legal actions. In addition, the ability to recruit and retain staff could be harmed. Failure to comply with changes in law and regulations could adversely affect the business Signet’s policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations. Changing legal and regulatory requirements (particularly in the US) have increased the complexity of the regulatory environment in which the business operates and the cost of compliance. Failure to comply with the various regulations may result in damage to Signet’s reputation, civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, and further increase the cost of regulatory compliance. Any difficulty integrating an acquisition or a business combination may result in expected returns and other projected benefits from such an exercise not being realized While management does not currently contemplate any acquisition or business combination, Signet may in the future make acquisitions or be involved in a business combination. Any difficulty in integrating an acquisition or a business combination may result in expected returns and other projected benefits from such an exercise not being realized. A significant transaction could also disrupt the operation of its current activities. Signet’s borrowing agreements place constraints on its ability to make an acquisition or enter into a business combination. Changes in assumptions used in calculating pension assets and liabilities may impact Signet’s results and balance sheet In the UK, Signet operates a defined benefit pension scheme (the “Group Scheme”), which ceased to admit new employees in 2004. The valuation of the Group Scheme’s assets and liabilities partly depends on assumptions 37 Table of Contents based on the financial markets as well as longevity and staff retention rates. This valuation is particularly sensitive to material changes in the value of equity investments held by the Group Scheme, changes in the UK AA rated corporate bond yields which are used in the measurement of the liabilities, changes in market expectations for long term price inflation and new evidence on projected longevity rates. Funding requirements and the income statement items relating to this closed Group Scheme are also influenced by these factors. Under the UK Pensions Act 2004, the Pensions Regulator has powers to vary and impose funding arrangements that could be more onerous than may be agreed with or proposed to the trustees. In addition, the provisions of the Pensions Act 2004 may restrict Signet’s freedom to undertake certain re-organization steps or to effect returns on capital or unusual dividends without the prior agreement of the Group Scheme trustees, in consultation with the Pensions Regulator. A negative change in the assumptions used to calculate the value of pension assets and liabilities may adversely impact Signet’s results and balance sheet. Loss of one or more key executive officers or employees could adversely impact performance, as could the appointment of an inappropriate successor or successors Signet’s future success will depend substantially upon the ability of senior management and other key employees to implement the business strategy. While Signet has entered into employment contracts with such key personnel, the retention of their services cannot be guaranteed and the loss of such services, or the inability to attract and retain talented personnel, could have a material adverse effect on Signet’s ability to conduct its business. The Chief Executive has announced his intention to stand down on January 29, 2011, and the Group Finance Director has announced that he plans to retire at the conclusion of the Company’s Annual General Meeting to be held in June 2010. The appointment of an appropriate successor to either of these positions could be challenging given Signet’s leadership position within the jewelry sector. Any outside appointment may not have the same level of experience in the jewelry sector as the retiring executives. However, internal appointments may have considerably less experience in managing a public company than an external appointment. In addition, there could be short term disruption during the transition period between senior executives and further management changes may occur as a result of an appointment. Investors may face difficulties in enforcing proceedings against Signet Jewelers Limited as it is domiciled in Bermuda It is doubtful whether courts in Bermuda would enforce judgments obtained by investors in other jurisdictions, including the US and the UK, against the Company or its directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda against the Company or its directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 