D. RISK FACTORS Spending on goods that are, or are perceived to be “luxuries”, such as jewelry, is discretionary and depends on general economic conditions. Therefore adverse changes in the economy may unfavorably impact the Group’s sales and earnings Jewelry purchases are discretionary and are dependent on general economic conditions, particularly as jewelry is often perceived to be a luxury purchase. Therefore adverse changes in the economy, such as those currently being experienced, may unfavorably impact the Group’s sales and earnings. The success of the Group’s operations depends to a significant extent upon a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer spending. These include economic conditions, and perceptions of such conditions by consumers, employment, the rate of change in employment, the level of consumers’ disposable income and income available for discretionary expenditure, business conditions, interest rates, consumer debt and asset values, availability of credit and levels of taxation for the economy as a whole and in regional and local markets where the Group operates. About half of the Group’s US sales are made utilizing credit provided by the Group. Therefore a deterioration in the consumers’ financial position could adversely impact sales and earnings Any significant deterioration in general economic conditions or increase in consumer debt levels may inhibit consumers’ use of credit and decrease the consumers’ ability to satisfy the Group’s requirement to authorize credit and could in turn have an adverse effect on the Group’s sales. Furthermore, any downturn in general or local economic conditions in the markets in which the Group operates may adversely affect its collection of outstanding credit accounts receivable, its net bad debt charge and hence earnings. The Group’s share price may be volatile The Group’s share price may fluctuate substantially as a result of variations in the actual or anticipated financial results and financing conditions of the Group and of other companies in the retail industry. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many retail and other shares and that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Restrictions on the Group’s ability to make distributions to shareholders may adversely impact the share price The adverse impact of the current economic downturn on the Group’s financial performance, and the outlook in the medium term, resulted in the Group’s Board deciding in January 2009 that it was currently inappropriate to make any form of distribution to shareholders. In addition, the amended revolving credit facility agreement and amended note purchase agreement entered into on March 13, 2009 contains terms that restrict the Group from making distributions to shareholders (see page 58). As such, the Company can give no assurances that any form of distribution will be made to shareholders in the near future. The concentration of a significant proportion of sales and an even larger share of profits in the fourth quarter means results are very dependent on the performance during that period The Group’s business is highly seasonal, with a significant proportion of its sales and operating profit generated during its fourth quarter, which includes the Christmas season. The Group expects to continue to experience a seasonal fluctuation in its sales and earnings. Therefore the Group has limited ability to compensate for shortfalls in fourth quarter sales or earnings by changes in its operations and strategies in other quarters, or to recover from any extensive disruption, for example due to sudden adverse changes in consumer confidence, inclement weather conditions having an impact on a significant number of stores in the last few days 6 Table of Contents immediately before Christmas Day or disruption to warehousing and store replenishment systems. A significant shortfall in results for the fourth quarter of any financial year would therefore be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Group’s annual results of operations. Disruption at lesser peaks in sales at Valentine’s Day and Mother’s Day would impact the results of the Group to a lesser extent. The Group is dependent upon the availability of equity and debt financing to fund its operations The Group is dependent upon the availability of equity and debt financing to fund its operations and growth. If the Group’s access to capital becomes significantly constrained, the Group’s financing costs would be likely to increase, the financial condition of the Group will be harmed and future results of operations will be adversely affected. Therefore management prepares annual budgets, medium term plans and headroom models which help to identify the future capital requirements, so that appropriate facilities can be put in place on a timely basis. If these models are inaccurate, adequate facilities may not be available. The Group’s borrowing agreements include various financial covenants. A material deterioration in the financial performance of the Group could result in a covenant being breached. If the Group were to breach a financial covenant it would have to renegotiate its terms with current lenders or find alternative sources of finance if current lenders required early repayment. The changes in general credit market conditions affect the Group’s ability to arrange, and the cost of arranging, credit facilities. Since 2007 market conditions have materially worsened and as a result the Group’s ability to raise debt has decreased and the cost of medium and long term debt has increased. In addition, the Group’s reputation in the financial markets and its corporate governance practices can influence the availability of capital, the cost of capital and its share price. Movements in the pound sterling to US dollar exchange rates impacts the results and balance sheet of the Group The Group publishes its consolidated annual financial statements in US dollars. The Group held approximately 88% of its total assets in US dollars at January 31, 2009 and generated approximately 76% of its sales and 75% of its net operating income before goodwill impairment and relisting costs in US dollars for the financial year then ended. The remainder of the Group’s assets, sales and operating income are in the UK. Therefore the Group’s results and balance sheet are subject to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the pound sterling and the US dollar. Accordingly, any decrease in the weighted average value of the pound sterling against the US dollar would decrease reported sales and operating income. Historically, the Signet Board has chosen not to hedge the translation effect of exchange rate movements on the results of the Group given that there is little movement of cash between the Group’s US and UK divisions. Where pounds sterling are used to fund the cash flow requirements of the Group, any decrease in the weighted average value of the pound sterling against the US dollar would increase the amount of the Group’s consolidated borrowings. In addition, the prices of materials and certain products bought on the international markets by the UK division are denominated in US dollars, and therefore the division has an exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on the cost of goods sold. The Group does use hedging instruments in respect of US dollars for transactions carried out by its UK division, within treasury guidelines previously approved by the Signet Board. 7 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the availability and pricing of polished diamonds and gold, which account for the majority of the Group’s merchandise costs, could adversely impact the Group’s earnings The jewelry industry generally is affected by fluctuations in the price and supply of diamonds, gold and, to a lesser extent, other precious and semi-precious metals and stones. An inability to increase retail prices to reflect higher commodity costs would result in lower profitability. Historically jewelry retailers have been able, over time, to increase prices to reflect changes in commodity costs. However, particularly sharp increases and volatility in commodity costs usually result in a time lag before increased commodity costs are fully reflected in retail prices. There is no certainty that such price increases will be sustainable, so downward pressure on gross margins and earnings may occur. The Group undertakes some hedging of its requirement for gold through the use of options, forward contracts and outright commodity purchasing. It does not hedge against fluctuations in the cost of diamonds. The Group also hedges the exposure of the UK division to the US dollar with regard to diamond and other costs of goods sold. The cost of raw materials is only part of the costs involved in determining the retail selling price of jewelry with labor costs also being a significant factor. Diamonds are the largest product category sold by the Group. The supply and price of diamonds in the principal world markets are significantly influenced by a single entity—the Diamond Trading Company (“DTC”), a subsidiary of De Beers Consolidated Mines Limited. The DTC’s share of the diamond supply chain has decreased over recent years and this may result in more volatility in rough diamond prices. The availability of diamonds to the DTC and the Group’s other suppliers is to some extent dependent on the political situation in diamond producing countries. Until alternative sources can be developed, any sustained interruption in the supply of diamonds from the significant producing countries could adversely affect the Group and the retail jewelry industry as a whole. Due to the sharp decline in demand for diamonds in the second half of fiscal 2009, particularly in the US which accounts for about half of worldwide demand, the supply chain is currently overstocked with diamonds. Combined with the reduced levels of credit availability, the over supply of diamonds may result in much greater volatility in the price of loose polished diamonds of all sizes and qualities than has been experienced in recent years. It is forecast that over the medium and longer term, the demand for diamonds will probably increase faster than the growth in supply; therefore the cost of diamonds is anticipated to rise over time, although short term fluctuations in price may occur. While jewelry manufacture is the major final demand for gold, the cost of gold can at times be driven by investment transactions. Therefore the Group’s cost of merchandise and earnings may be adversely impacted by investment market considerations. The inability of the Group to obtain merchandise that customers wish to purchase, particularly ahead of the fourth quarter, would adversely impact sales The abrupt loss or disruption of any significant supplier during the three month period (August to October) leading up to the fourth quarter would result in a material adverse effect on the Group’s business. The sharp downturn in world diamond sales, the increased level of bankruptcies among jewelry retailers and the considerable worldwide tightening in credit availability has increased the probability that a supplier may cease trading. Also, if management misjudged expected customer demand it could adversely impact the results by causing either a shortage of merchandise or an accumulation of excess inventory. 8 Table of Contents The Group benefits from close commercial relationships with a number of suppliers. Damage to, or loss of, any of these relationships could have a detrimental effect on the Group’s results. The Group holds regular reviews with major suppliers. The Group’s most significant supplier accounts for 6% of merchandise. The luxury and prestige watch manufacturers and distributors normally grant agencies to sell their ranges on a store by store basis, and most of the leading brands have been steadily reducing the number of agencies over recent years. The watch brands sold by Ernest Jones, and to a lesser extent Jared, help attract customers and build sales in all categories. Therefore the inability to obtain and retain watch agencies for a location could harm the performance of that particular store. In the case of Ernest Jones, the inability to gain additional prestige watch agencies is an important factor in, and could reduce the likelihood of, opening new stores, which could adversely impact sales growth. An inability by the Group to recruit, train and retain suitably qualified staff could adversely impact sales and earnings In specialty jewelry retailing, the level and quality of customer service is a key competitive factor as nearly every in-store transaction involves the sales associate taking a piece of jewelry or a watch out of a display case and presenting it to the potential customer. Therefore the inability of the Group to recruit, train and retain suitably qualified sales staff could adversely impact sales and earnings. Loss of confidence by consumers in the Group’s brand names, poor execution of marketing programs and reduced marketing expenditure could have a detrimental impact on sales Primary factors in determining customer buying decisions in the jewelry sector include customer confidence in the retailer together with the level and quality of customer service. The ability to differentiate the Group’s stores from competitors by its branding, marketing and advertising programs is an important factor in attracting consumers. If these programs are poorly executed or the level of support for them is reduced, it could harm the ability of the Group to attract customers. The DTC promotes diamonds and diamond jewelry in the US. The level of support provided by the DTC and the success of the promotions influence the size of the total jewelry market in the US. As the DTC’s market share has significantly reduced, it is changing its approach from generic marketing support of diamonds to one more closely associated with its own efforts to develop a brand such as the “Forevermark.” The loss of such generic marketing support could unfavourably impact the overall market for diamonds and diamond jewelry and adversely impact the Group’s sales and earnings. The retail jewelry industry is highly fragmented and competitive The retail jewelry industry is highly fragmented and competitive. If the Group’s competitive position deteriorates, the Group’s operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. Aggressive discounting by competitors, including liquidating excess inventory and ‘going out of business sales’, may also adversely impact the Group’s performance in the short term. This is particularly the case for easily comparable pieces of jewelry, of similar quality, sold through stores that closely resemble those that the Group operates. As a result of the growth of Jared and the development of Kay outside of its enclosed mall base, the US division is increasingly competing with independent specialty jewelry retailers that are able to adjust their competitive action, for example on pricing, to local market conditions rather than adopting a national strategy. While the Group’s major competitors are other specialty jewelers, the Group also faces competition from other retailers including department stores, discount stores, apparel outlets and internet retailers that sell jewelry. In addition, other retail categories, for example electronics, and other forms of expenditure, such as travel, also compete for consumers’ discretionary expenditure. Therefore the price of jewelry relative to other products 9 Table of Contents influences the proportion of consumers’ expenditure that is spent on jewelry. If significant price increases are implemented across a wide range of merchandise, the impact on earnings will depend on, among other factors, the pricing by competitors of similar products and the response by the consumer to higher prices. Such price increases may result in lower achieved gross merchandise margin dollars (see page 41 for definition) and adversely impact earnings. Long term changes in consumer attitudes to jewelry could be unfavorable and harm jewelry sales Consumer attitudes to diamonds, gold and other precious metals and gemstones also influence the level of Group sales. Attitudes could be affected by a variety of issues including concern over the source of raw materials; the impact of mining and refining of minerals on the environment, the local community and the political stability of the producing country; labor conditions in the supply chain; the availability and consumer attitudes to substitute products such as cubic zirconia, moissanite and of laboratory created diamonds. A negative change in consumer attitudes to jewelry could adversely impact the Group’s sales. The inability to rent stores that satisfy the Group’s operational and financial criteria could harm sales, as could changes in locations where customers shop The Group’s results are dependent on a number of factors relating to its stores. These include the availability of property, the demographic characteristics of the area around the store, the design and maintenance of the stores, the availability of attractive locations within the shopping center that also meet our operational and financial criteria, the terms of leases and the Group’s relationship with major landlords. In the US the Group leases 15% of its store locations from Simon Property Group and 14% from General Growth Management. The Group has no other relationship with any lessor relating to 10% or more of its store locations. If the Group is unable to rent stores that satisfy its operational and financial criteria, or if there is a disruption in the Group’s relationship with its major landlords, the Group’s sales could be adversely affected. Given the length of property leases that the Group enters into, the Group is dependent upon the continued popularity of particular retail locations. In the US, the Group has historically been dependent on the continued success of enclosed malls as a shopping destination and the ability of enclosed malls, their tenants and other mall features to attract customers. The continued growth of Jared and the development of Kay off-mall locations mean that off-mall locations accounted for about 40% of the Group’s US store space at the start of fiscal 2009 and that the US operation is dependent on the success of these other real estate locations. As the US division continues to test and develop new types of store locations there can be no certainty as to their success. In the UK, the Group has a more diverse range of store locations, including some exposure to smaller retail centers which do not justify the investment required to refurbish the site to the current store format. Consequently the Group is gradually closing stores in such locations as leases expire or satisfactory property transactions can be executed. The ability to secure such property transactions is not certain and as a result the UK division may continue to operate a limited number of such stores. As the UK division is already represented in nearly all major retail centers, a small annual decrease in store space is expected in the medium term which will adversely impact sales growth. The rate of new store development is dependent on a number of factors including obtaining suitable real estate, the capital resources of the Group, the availability of appropriate staff and management and the level of the financial return on investment required by the Group. In particular, the success of the Jared off-mall destination store concept, which accounts for the majority of the Group’s net increase in new store space, will influence the future performance of the Group. A slowdown in the rate of new store development could adversely affect sales growth. 10 Table of Contents The Group’s success is dependent on the strength and effectiveness of its relationships with its various stakeholders whose behavior may be affected by the Group’s management of social, ethical and environmental risks Social, ethical and environmental matters influence the Group’s reputation, demand for merchandise by consumers, the ability to recruit staff, relations with suppliers and standing in the financial markets. The Group’s success is dependent on the strength and effectiveness of its relationships with its various stakeholders: customers, shareholders, employees and suppliers. In recent years, stakeholder expectations of the Group have increased and the Group’s success and reputation will depend on its ability to meet these higher expectations. Inadequacies in and disruption to internal controls and systems could result in lower sales and increased costs The Group is dependent on the suitability, reliability and durability of its systems and procedures, including its accounting, information technology, data protection, warehousing and distribution systems. If support for a critical externally supplied software package ceased, the Group would have to implement an alternative software package or begin supporting the software internally. Disruption to parts of the business could result in lower sales and increased costs. The failure to satisfy the accounting requirements for ‘hedge accounting’, or of a counter party to a hedging contract, could adversely impact the Group’s results The Group hedges some of its purchases of gold and US dollars. The failure to satisfy the requirements of the appropriate accounting requirements, or of a counterparty to a contract, could adversely impact the Group’s results. Adverse decision in legal actions for an unspecified amount In March 2008 a class action lawsuit for an unspecified amount was filed against Sterling Jewelers Inc., a subsidiary of Signet, in the New York federal court by private plaintiffs. In September 2008 the US Equal Opportunities Commission filed a separate lawsuit alleging that US store-level employment practices are discriminatory as to compensation and promotional activities. The Group denies these allegations and intends to defend them vigorously. If however it is unsuccessful in its defence, the Group could be required to pay substantial damages. Changes to the regulatory requirements regarding the granting of credit to customers in the US could adversely impact sales Approximately 50 per cent of US sales utilize the Group’s in-house credit programs. Therefore any change in regulations, or the application of regulations, relating to the provision of credit and associated services could adversely affect the Group’s sales. Failure to comply with labor regulations could harm the business Failure by the Group to comply with labor regulations could result in fines and legal actions. In addition, the ability of the Group to recruit and retain staff could be harmed. Any difficulty integrating an acquisition or a business combination may result in expected returns and other projected benefits from such an exercise not being realized While the Group’s strategy does not currently envisage an acquisition or business combination, the Group may in the future make acquisitions or be involved in a business combination. Any difficulty in integrating an acquisition or a business combination may result in expected returns and other projected benefits from such an exercise not being realized. A significant transaction could also disrupt the operation of the Group’s current activities. The Group’s borrowing agreements also place constraints on its ability to complete an acquisition which might constrain it from making a beneficial acquisition. 11 Table of Contents Assumptions used in calculating pension assets and liabilities impact the Group’s results and balance sheet In the UK, the Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme (the “Group Scheme”), which ceased to admit new employees in 2004. The valuation of the Group Scheme’s assets and liabilities partly depends on assumptions based on the financial markets as well as longevity and staff retention rates. This valuation is particularly sensitive to material changes in the value of equity investments held by the Group Scheme, changes in the UK AA rated corporate bond yields which are used in the measurement of the liabilities, changes in market expectations for long term price inflation and new evidence on projected longevity rates. Funding requirements and the income statement items relating to this closed Group Scheme are also influenced by these factors. Under the UK Pensions Act 2004, the Pensions Regulator has powers to vary and impose funding arrangements which could be more onerous than may be agreed with or proposed to the trustees. In addition, the provisions of the Pensions Act 2004 may restrict the freedom of the Group to undertake certain re-organization steps or to effect returns on capital or unusual dividends without the prior agreement of the Group Scheme trustees, in consultation with the Pensions Regulator. A negative change in the assumptions used to calculate the value of the Group’s pension assets and liabilities could adversely impact the Group’s results and balance sheet. Loss of one or more key executive officers or employees could adversely impact the performance of the Group The Group’s future success will depend substantially upon the ability of senior management and other key employees to implement the business strategy. While the Group has entered into employment contracts with such key personnel, the retention of their services cannot be guaranteed and the loss of such services or the inability to attract and retain other talented personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s ability to conduct its business. The Group Chief Executive has announced his intention to stand down on January 29, 2011. Investors may face difficulties in enforcing proceedings against Signet Jewelers Limited as it is domiciled in Bermuda It is doubtful whether courts in Bermuda would enforce judgments obtained by investors in other jurisdictions, including the US and the UK, against the Company or its directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda against the Company or its directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. 