ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to those set forth below, any one of which could cause the Company’s actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. The Highly Competitive Nature of the Lighting Business The Company’s products span major market segments in the lighting industry, competing in a number of different markets with numerous competitors for each type of fixture. The principal measures of competition in indoor and outdoor fixtures are price, service (delivery), design, innovation, and product quality and performance. Certain commodity-type products compete primarily on price, delivery, and quality. More differentiated products compete on design, innovation, and product performance, including energy efficiency. Some of the Company's competitors may drive down industry prices if the competitors' costs are significantly lower. In addition, some of the Company's competitors' financial, technological and other resources may be greater than Genlyte's resources, and such competitors may be better able to withstand changes in market conditions. The Company's competitors may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Further, consolidation of the Company's competitors in any of the markets in which it competes may result in reduced demand for the Company's products. In addition, in some of the Company’s businesses, new competitors could emerge by modifying existing production facilities to manufacture products that directly compete with the Company's products. The occurrence of any of these events could significantly impact results of operations. The Overall Strength or Weakness of Construction Activity, and the Commercial, Residential, and Industrial Lighting Markets The Company’s sales, like those of the lighting fixture industry in general, depend significantly on the level of activity in new construction and remodeling. Because the Company does not principally sell directly to the end-user of its products, management cannot determine precisely the percentage of revenues derived from the sale of products installed in each type of building or the percentage of products sold for new construction versus remodeling. However, a significant fluctuation in commercial, residential, or industrial construction activity could significantly impact results of operations. The commercial market is sensitive to changes in office vacancy rates, interest rates, as well as overall demand for retail, healthcare, school, hospitality, and entertainment facilities. The residential market is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, consumer price index, housing starts, availability of financing and interest rate levels. The industrial market is sensitive to changes in gross domestic product, capacity utilization rates, factory operating rates, producer price index and available warehouse space. Adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the market regions where the Company operates, could significantly impact results of operations. Customer Acceptance of New Product Offerings The Company is committed to product innovation, with a goal to generate 30% of annual sales from new products released within the past three years. The Company estimates that approximately 26% of its net sales for 2006 were from new products released within the past three years and finds that it’s most profitable divisions achieve or come very close to the 30% goal. Development of new products for targeted markets requires the Company to develop or otherwise leverage leading technologies in a cost-effective and timely manner. Failure to meet these changing demands could result in a loss of competitive position and seriously impact future revenues. Products or technologies developed by others may render the Company’s products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. A fundamental shift in technologies in key product markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s competitive position within the industry. The Availability and Cost of Raw Materials and the Ability to Maintain or Increase Prices The Company purchases large quantities of raw materials and components -- mainly steel, aluminum, ballasts, sockets, wire, plastic, lenses, glass, and corrugated cartons. Materials comprise the largest component of costs, representing over 70% of the cost of sales in 2006. Further increases in the price of these items could further increase the Company’s operating costs and materially adversely affect margins. Although the Company attempts to pass along increased costs in the form of price increases, the Company may be unsuccessful due to competitive pressures, and even when successful, the timing of such price increases may lag significantly behind the incurrence of higher costs. 4 Table of Contents The Costs and Outcomes of Various Legal Proceedings The Company’s results may be affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted. As required by accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP), the Company estimates loss contingencies and establishes reserves based on its assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known at a particular point in time. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect the Company’s assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a liability or as a reserve against assets in the financial statements and could result in an adverse effect on results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which damages would be paid. For a further description of legal proceedings, see Item 3 “Legal Proceedings.” Integrating Future Acquisitions into Existing Operations The Company seeks to grow through strategic acquisitions. In the past several years, the Company made various acquisitions and entered into joint venture arrangements intended to complement and expand its businesses, and may continue to do so in the future. The success of these transactions depends on the Company’s successful integration of assets and personnel, application of its internal controls processes, and cooperation with its strategic partners. The Company may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with its operations, and in managing strategic investments. Furthermore, the Company may not realize the degree, or timing, of anticipated benefits when entering into a transaction. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. The Loss of Key Personnel The Company’s future success depends on the ability to attract and retain highly skilled design, engineering, technical, managerial, marketing, sales and finance personnel, and, to a significant extent, upon the efforts and abilities of senior management. The Company’s management philosophy of cost-control results in a very lean workforce, and the commitment to decentralized operations (discussed further below) also places greater emphasis on the strength of local management. Future success of the Company will depend on, among other factors, the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, particularly management, engineers and technical sales professionals. The loss of key employees or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel, domestically or abroad, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Decentralized Operations The Company is relatively decentralized in comparison with its peers. While management believes this practice has catalyzed growth and enabled the Company to remain responsive to opportunities and to customers’ needs, it necessarily places significant control and decision-making powers in the hands of local management. This means that “company-wide” business initiatives are often more challenging to implement than they would be in a more centralized environment. Depending on the nature of the initiative in question, such failure could adversely affect financial condition or results of operations. Significant Union Workforce As of December 31, 2006, approximately 73% of the Company’s production workforce was comprised of union employees. Several of the collective bargaining agreements, covering approximately 16% of production workers, will expire in 2007. Although the Company believes its relations with unionized employees are generally good, the Company is subject to risks of work interruption or stoppage and/or may incur additional administrative expenses associated with union negotiations. If the Company is unable to reach agreement with any of its unionized work groups on the amended terms of their collective bargaining agreements, the Company may be subject to work interruptions and/or stoppages. Any sustained work stoppages could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2006 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 5 Table of Contents ITEM 