ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A material or extended decline in expenditures by oil and natural gas companies due to a decline or volatility in oil and natural gas prices, a decrease in demand for oil and natural gas or other factors may reduce demand for our services and substantially reduce our profitability or result in our incurring losses. The profitability of our operations depends upon conditions in the oil and natural gas industry and, specifically, the level of exploration, development and production activity by oil and natural gas companies. Oil and natural gas prices and market expectations regarding potential changes in these prices significantly affect this level of activity. However, higher commodity prices do not necessarily translate into increased drilling activity since our customers’ expectations of future commodity prices typically drive demand for our rigs. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile. Commodity prices are directly influenced by many factors beyond our control, including: • the demand for oil and natural gas; • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; • expectations regarding future energy prices; • advances in exploration, development and production technology; • government regulations; • local and international political, economic and weather conditions; • the ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and prices; • the level of production in non-OPEC countries; • domestic and foreign tax policies; • the development and exploitation of alternative fuels; • the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and natural gas reserves; • acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere; and • the worldwide military and political environment and uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in the Middle East and other oil and natural gas producing regions. Continued hostilities in the Middle East and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks against the United States or other countries could cause a downturn in the economies of the United States and those of other countries. A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could cause our revenues and margins to decline and limit our future growth prospects. More specifically, these risks could lead to increased volatility in prices for oil and natural gas and could affect the markets for our drilling services. In addition, these risks could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets and make it more difficult for us to access capital and to obtain insurance coverages that we consider adequate or are otherwise required by our contracts. Depending on the market prices of oil and natural gas, and even during periods of high commodity prices, companies exploring for and producing oil and natural gas may cancel or curtail their drilling programs, or reduce their levels of capital expenditures for exploration and production for a variety of reasons, including their lack of 9 Table of Contents success in exploration efforts. Such a reduction in demand may decrease daily rates and utilization of our rigs. Any significant decrease in daily rates or utilization of our rigs, particularly our high-specification drillships, semisubmersible rigs or jackup rigs, could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. Rig upgrade, refurbishment, repair and construction projects are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse impact on our available cash resources and results of operations. We have expended, and will continue to expend, significant amounts of capital to complete the construction of our three drillships currently under construction. Depending on available opportunities, we may construct additional rigs for our fleet in the future. In addition, we make significant upgrade, refurbishment and repair expenditures for our fleet from time to time, particularly in light of the aging nature of our rigs. Some of these expenditures are unplanned. In 2008, we expect to spend approximately $610 million with respect to the construction of our three drillships and an additional approximately $385 million with respect to the refurbishment and upgrade of other rigs. All of these projects are subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns, including costs or delays resulting from the following: • unexpectedly long delivery times for or shortages of key equipment, parts and materials; • shortages of skilled labor and other shipyard personnel necessary to perform the work; • failure or delay of third-party equipment vendors or service providers; • unforeseen increases in the cost of equipment, labor and raw materials, particularly steel; • unforeseen design or engineering problems, including those relating to the commissioning of newly designed equipment; • unanticipated actual or purported change orders; • client acceptance delays; • disputes with shipyards and suppliers; • work stoppages and other labor disputes; • latent damages or deterioration to hull, equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions; • financial or other difficulties at shipyards; • adverse weather conditions; and • inability to obtain required permits or approvals. Significant cost overruns or delays could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. Some of our risks are concentrated because our three drillships currently under construction are located at one shipyard in South Korea. Delays in the delivery of rigs being constructed or undergoing upgrade, refurbishment or repair may, in many cases, result in delay in contract commencement, resulting in a loss of revenue to us, and may also cause our customer to renegotiate the drilling contract for the rig or terminate or shorten the term of the contract under applicable late delivery clauses. In the event of termination of one of these contracts, we may not be able to secure a replacement contract on as favorable terms. Additionally, capital expenditures for rig upgrade, refurbishment and construction projects could materially exceed our planned capital expenditures. Moreover, our rigs undergoing upgrade, refurbishment and repair may not earn a dayrate during the period they are out of service. An oversupply of comparable or higher specification rigs in the markets in which we compete could depress the demand and contract prices for our rigs and materially reduce our revenues and profitability. 10 Table of Contents Demand and contract prices customers pay for our rigs also are affected by the total supply of comparable rigs available for service in the markets in which we compete. During prior periods of high utilization and dayrates, industry participants have increased the supply of rigs by ordering the construction of new units. This has often created an oversupply of drilling units and has caused a decline in utilization and dayrates when the rigs enter the market, sometimes for extended periods of time as rigs have been absorbed into the active fleet. Approximately 13 new jackup rigs entered the market in 2007, and approximately 83 jackup rigs are on order or under construction with delivery dates ranging from 2008 to 2011. Most of these units are cantilevered units and are considered to be premium units. In the deepwater sector, one new semi-submersible rig entered the market in 2007, and there have been announcements of approximately 70 new semisubmersible rigs and drillships, including our three drillship construction projects, with delivery forecasted to occur from 2008 through 2011. A number of the contracts for units currently under construction provide for options for the construction of additional units, and we believe further new construction announcements may occur for all classes of rigs pursuant to the exercise of one or more of these options and otherwise. In addition, our competitors’ “stacked” (i.e., minimally crewed with little or no scheduled maintenance being performed) rigs may re-enter the market. Not all of the rigs currently under construction have been contracted for future work, which may intensify price competition as scheduled delivery dates occur. The entry into service of newly constructed, upgraded or reactivated units will increase marketed supply and could curtail a further strengthening of dayrates, or reduce them, in the affected markets as rigs are absorbed into the active fleet. Any further increase in construction of new drilling units may negatively affect utilization and dayrates. In addition, the new construction of high specification rigs, as well as changes in our competitors’ drilling rig fleets, could require us to make material additional capital investments to keep our rig fleet competitive. Our industry is highly competitive and cyclical, with intense price competition. Our industry is highly competitive. Our contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Pricing is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. Rig availability, location and technical ability and each contractor’s safety performance record and reputation for quality also can be key factors in the determination. Some of our competitors in the drilling industry are larger than we are and have more diverse fleets, or fleets with generally higher specifications, and greater resources than we have. Some of these competitors also are incorporated in tax-haven countries outside the United States, which provides them with significant tax advantages that are not available to us as a U.S. company and which may materially impair our ability to compete with them for many projects that would be beneficial to our company. In addition, recent mergers within the oil and natural gas industry have reduced the number of available customers, resulting in increased competition for projects. We may not be able to maintain our competitive position, and we believe that competition for contracts will continue to be intense in the foreseeable future. Our inability to compete successfully may reduce our revenues and profitability. Historically, the offshore service industry has been highly cyclical, with periods of high demand, limited rig supply and high dayrates often followed by periods of low demand, excess rig supply and low dayrates. Periods of low demand and excess rig supply intensify the competition in the industry and often result in rigs, particularly lower specification rigs like a large portion of our fleet, being idle for long periods of time. We may be required to stack rigs or enter into lower dayrate contracts in response to market conditions in the future. Prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates could result in the recognition of impairment charges on certain of our rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable. Consolidation of suppliers may limit our ability to obtain supplies and services at an acceptable cost, on our schedule or at all. We rely on certain third parties to provide supplies and services necessary for our operations. Recent mergers have reduced the number of available suppliers, resulting in fewer alternatives for sourcing of key supplies. We may not be able to obtain supplies and services at an acceptable cost, at the times we need them or at all. These cost increases or delays could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial position. Failure to attract and retain skilled personnel or an increase in labor costs could hurt our operations. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for the skilled and other labor required for our operations intensifies as the number of rigs activated or added to worldwide fleets or under construction increases, creating upward pressure on wages. In periods of high 11 Table of Contents utilization, such as the current period, we have found it more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. We have experienced tightening in the relevant labor markets since 2005 and have recently sustained the loss of experienced personnel to our customers and competitors. Our labor costs increased significantly in 2005, 2006 and 2007, and we expect this trend to continue in 2008. The shortages of qualified personnel or the inability to obtain and retain qualified personnel could negatively affect the quality, safety and timeliness of our work. In addition, our ability to crew our three new drillships and to expand our deepwater operations depends in part upon our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. We have intensified our recruitment and training programs in an effort to meet our anticipated personnel needs. These efforts may be unsuccessful, and competition for skilled personnel could materially impact our business by limiting or affecting the quality and safety of our operations or further increasing our costs. Our international operations involve additional risks not generally associated with domestic operations, which may hurt our operations materially. In 2007, we derived 83% of our revenues from countries outside the United States. Our operations in these areas are subject to the following risks, among others: • foreign currency fluctuations and devaluations; • restrictions on currency or capital repatriation; • political, social and economic instability, war and civil disturbances; • seizure, expropriation or nationalization of assets or confiscatory taxation; • significant governmental influence over many aspects of local economies; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • work stoppages; • damage to our equipment or violence directed at our employees, including kidnappings; • complications associated with repairing and replacing equipment in remote locations; • repudiation, nullification, modification or renegotiation of contracts; • limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk coverage, in certain areas; • piracy; • imposition of trade barriers; • wage and price controls; • import-export quotas; • uncertainty or instability resulting from hostilities or other crises in the Middle East, West Africa, Latin America or other geographic areas in which we operate; • acts of terrorism; and • other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control. We may experience currency exchange losses where revenues are received or expenses are paid in nonconvertible currencies or where we do not take protective measures against exposure to a foreign currency. We may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. We 12 Table of Contents attempt to limit the risks of currency fluctuation and restrictions on currency repatriation where possible by obtaining contracts providing for payment in U.S. dollars or freely convertible foreign currency. To the extent possible, we seek to limit our exposure to local currencies by matching the acceptance of local currencies to our expense requirements in those currencies. Although we have done this in the past, we may not be able to take these actions in the future, thereby exposing us to foreign currency fluctuations that could cause our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows to deteriorate materially. Our ability to compete in international contract drilling markets may be limited by foreign governmental regulations that favor or require the awarding of contracts to local contractors or by regulations requiring foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. Furthermore, our foreign subsidiaries may face governmentally imposed restrictions from time to time on their ability to transfer funds to us. Finally, governments in some foreign countries have become increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions and companies holding concessions, the exploration for oil and natural gas and other aspects of the oil and natural gas industries in their countries. In some areas of the world, this governmental activity has adversely affected the amount of exploration and development work done by major oil and natural gas companies and may continue to do so. Operations in less developed countries can be subject to legal systems which are not as mature or predictable as those in more developed countries, which can lead to greater uncertainty in legal matters and proceedings. The shipment of goods, services and technology across international borders subjects us to extensive trade laws and regulations. Our import activities are governed by unique customs laws and regulations in each of the countries where we operate. Moreover, many countries, including the United States, control the export and re-export of certain goods, services and technology. Governments also may impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons and other entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons and entities. The laws and regulations concerning import activity, export control and economic sanctions are complex and constantly changing. These laws and regulations may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner materially impacting our operations. Shipments can be delayed and denied export or entry for a variety of reasons, some of which are outside our control and some of which may result from failure to comply with existing legal and regulatory regimes. Shipping delays or denials could cause unscheduled operational downtime. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory trading obligations also could result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from government contracts, seizure of shipments and loss of import and export privileges. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, our employees, contractors and agents may take actions in violation of our policies and such laws. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could materially and adversely affect our business. We are conducting an investigation into allegations of improper payments to foreign government officials, as well as corresponding accounting entries and internal control issues. The outcome and impact of this investigation are unknown at this time. During the course of an internal audit and investigation relating to certain of our Latin American operations, our management and internal audit department received allegations of improper payments to foreign government officials. In February 2006, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors assumed direct responsibility over the investigation and retained independent outside counsel to investigate the allegations, as well as corresponding accounting entries and internal control issues, and to advise the Audit Committee. The investigation, which is continuing, has found evidence suggesting that payments, which may violate the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, were made to government officials in Venezuela and Mexico aggregating less than $1 million. The evidence to date regarding these payments suggests that payments were made beginning in early 2003 through 2005 (a) to vendors with the intent that they would be transferred to government officials for the purpose of extending drilling contracts for two jackup rigs and one semisubmersible rig operating offshore Venezuela; and (b) to one or more government officials, or to vendors with the intent that they would be transferred to government officials, for the purpose of collecting payment for work completed in connection with offshore drilling contracts in Venezuela. In addition, the evidence suggests that other payments were made beginning in 2002 through early 2006 (a) to one or more government officials in Mexico in connection with the clearing of a jackup rig 13 Table of Contents and equipment through customs, the movement of personnel through immigration or the acceptance of a jackup rig under a drilling contract; and (b) with respect to the potentially improper entertainment of government officials in Mexico. The Audit Committee, through independent outside counsel, has undertaken a review of our compliance with the FCPA in certain of our other international operations. In addition, the U.S. Department of Justice has asked us to provide information with respect to (a) our relationships with a freight and customs agent and (b) our importation of rigs into Nigeria. The Audit Committee is reviewing the issues raised by the request, and we are cooperating with the DOJ in connection with its request. This review has found evidence suggesting that during the period from 2001 through 2005 payments were made directly or indirectly to government officials in Saudi Arabia, Kazakhstan, Brazil, Nigeria, Libya, Angola, and the Republic of the Congo in connection with clearing rigs or equipment through customs or resolving outstanding issues with customs, immigration, tax, licensing or merchant marine authorities in those countries. In addition, this review has found evidence suggesting that in 2003 payments were made to one or more third parties with the intent that they would be transferred to a government official in India for the purpose of resolving a customs dispute related to the importation of one of our jackup rigs. The evidence suggests that the aggregate amount of payments referred to in this paragraph is less than $2 million. We are also reviewing certain agent payments related to Malaysia. The investigation of the matters described in the prior paragraph and the Audit Committee’s compliance review are ongoing. Accordingly, there can be no assurances that evidence of additional potential FCPA violations may not be uncovered in those or other countries. Our management and the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors believe it likely that members of our senior operations management either were aware, or should have been aware, that improper payments to foreign government officials were made or proposed to be made. Our former Chief Operating Officer resigned as Chief Operating Officer effective on May 31, 2006 and has elected to retire from the company, although he will remain an employee, but not an officer, during the pendency of the investigation to assist us with the investigation and to be available for consultation and to answer questions relating to our business. His retirement benefits will be subject to the determination by our Audit Committee or our Board of Directors that it does not have cause (as defined in his retirement agreement with us) to terminate his employment. Other personnel, including officers, have been terminated or placed on administrative leave or have resigned in connection with the investigation. We have taken and will continue to take disciplinary actions where appropriate and various other corrective action to reinforce our commitment to conducting our business ethically and legally and to instill in our employees our expectation that they uphold the highest levels of honesty, integrity, ethical standards and compliance with the law. We voluntarily disclosed information relating to the initial allegations and other information found in the investigation and compliance review to the DOJ and the Securities and Exchange Commission and are cooperating with these authorities as the investigation and compliance reviews continue and as they review the matter. If violations of the FCPA occurred, we could be subject to fines, civil and criminal penalties, equitable remedies, including profit disgorgement, and injunctive relief. Civil penalties under the antibribery provisions of the FCPA could range up to $10,000 per violation, with a criminal fine up to the greater of $2 million per violation or twice the gross pecuniary gain to us or twice the gross pecuniary loss to others, if larger. Civil penalties under the accounting provisions of the FCPA can range up to $500,000 and a company that knowingly commits a violation can be fined up to $25 million. In addition, both the SEC and the DOJ could assert that conduct extending over a period of time may constitute multiple violations for purposes of assessing the penalty amounts. Often, dispositions for these types of matters result in modifications to business practices and compliance programs and possibly a monitor being appointed to review future business and practices with the goal of ensuring compliance with the FCPA. We could also face fines, sanctions and other penalties from authorities in the relevant foreign jurisdictions, including prohibition of our participating in or curtailment of business operations in those jurisdictions and the seizure of rigs or other assets. Our customers in those jurisdictions could seek to impose penalties or take other actions adverse to our interests. In addition, disclosure of the subject matter of the investigation could adversely affect our reputation and our ability to obtain new business or retain existing business from our current clients and potential clients, to attract and retain employees and to access the capital markets. No amounts have been accrued related to any potential fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could be material individually or in the aggregate. 14 Table of Contents We cannot currently predict what, if any, actions may be taken by the DOJ, the SEC, the applicable government or other authorities or our customers or the effect the actions may have on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, on our consolidated financial statements or on our business in the countries at issue and other jurisdictions. If we are unable to renew or obtain new and favorable contracts for rigs whose contracts are expiring or are terminated, our revenues and profitability could be materially reduced. We have a number of contracts that will expire in 2008 and 2009. Our ability to renew these contracts or obtain new contracts and the terms of any such contracts will depend on market conditions. We may be unable to renew our expiring contracts or obtain new contracts for the rigs under contracts that have expired or been terminated, and the dayrates under any new contracts may be substantially below the existing dayrates, which could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. Our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate some of our drilling contracts during periods of depressed market conditions or if we experience downtime, operational difficulties, or safety-related issues. Substantially all our contracts with major customers are dayrate contracts, where we charge a fixed charge per day regardless of the number of days needed to drill the well. During depressed market conditions, a customer may no longer need a rig that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable rig at a lower daily rate. As a result, customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing drilling contracts or avoid their obligations under those contracts. In addition, our customers may have the right to terminate, or may seek to renegotiate, existing contracts if we experience downtime, operational problems above the contractual limit or safety-related issues, if the rig is a total loss, if the rig is not delivered to the customer within the period specified in the contract or in other specified circumstances, which include events beyond the control of either party. Some of our contracts with our customers include terms allowing them to terminate contracts without cause, with little or no prior notice and without penalty or early termination payments. In addition, we could be required to pay penalties, which could be material, if some of our contracts with our customers are terminated due to downtime, operational problems or failure to deliver. Some of our other contracts with customers may be cancelable at the option of the customer upon payment of a penalty, which may not fully compensate us for the loss of the contract. Early termination of a contract may result in a rig being idle for an extended period of time. The likelihood that a customer may seek to terminate a contract is increased during periods of market weakness. If our customers cancel some of our significant contracts and we are unable to secure new contracts on substantially similar terms, our revenues and profitability could be materially reduced. Many of our contracts with our customers for our offshore rigs are long-term dayrate contracts. Increases in our costs, which are unpredictable and fluctuate based on events outside our control, could adversely impact our profitability. In periods of rising demand for offshore rigs, a drilling contractor generally would prefer to enter into well-to-well or other shorter term contracts that would allow the contractor to profit from increasing dayrates, while customers with reasonably definite drilling programs would typically prefer longer term contracts in order to maintain dayrates at a consistent level. Conversely, in periods of decreasing demand for offshore rigs, a drilling contractor generally would prefer longer term contracts to preserve dayrates and utilization, while customers generally would prefer well-to-well contracts or other shorter term contracts that would allow the customer to benefit from the decreasing dayrates. In 2007, a majority of our revenue was derived from long-term dayrate contracts, and substantially all of our backlog as of December 31, 2007 was attributable to long-term dayrate contracts. As a result, our inability to fully benefit from increasing dayrates in an improving market may limit our profitability. In general, our costs increase as the business environment for drilling services improves and demand for oilfield equipment and skilled labor increases. While many of our contracts include escalation provisions that allow us to increase the dayrate based on stipulated costs increases, the timing and amount earned from these dayrate increases may differ from our actual increase in costs. Additionally, if our rigs incur idle time between contracts, we typically do not de-man those rigs because we will use the crew to prepare the rig for its next contract. During times of reduced activity, reductions in costs may not be immediate as portions of the crew may be required to prepare our rigs for stacking, after which time the crew members are assigned to active rigs or dismissed. Moreover, as our rigs are mobilized from one geographic location to another, the labor and other operating and maintenance costs can vary 15 Table of Contents significantly. In general, labor costs increase primarily due to higher salary levels and inflation. Equipment maintenance expenses fluctuate depending upon the type of activity the unit is performing and the age and condition of the equipment. Contract preparation expenses vary based on the scope and length of contract preparation required and the duration of the firm contractual period over which such expenditures are amortized. We can provide no assurance that our current backlog of contract drilling revenue will be ultimately realized. As of December 31, 2007, our contract drilling backlog was approximately $4.9 billion for future revenues under firm commitments. We may not be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond our control, and our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate our contracts for various reasons, including those described above. Our inability to perform under our contractual obligations may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our jackup rigs and some of our lower specification semisubmersible rigs are at a relative disadvantage to higher specification jackup and semisubmersible rigs. These higher specification rigs may be more likely to obtain contracts than our lower specification rigs, particularly during market downturns. Many of our competitors have jackup fleets with generally higher specification rigs than those in our jackup fleet, and our fleet includes a number of older and/or lower specification semisubmersible rigs. In addition, the announced construction of approximately 153 new rigs includes jackup rigs, semisubmersible rigs and ultra-deepwater drillships. Particularly during market downturns when there is decreased rig demand, higher specification rigs may be more likely to obtain contracts than lower specification rigs. Some of our significant customers may also begin to require higher specification rigs for the types of projects that currently utilize our lower specification rigs, which could materially affect their utilization. In the past, our lower specification rigs have been stacked earlier in the cycle of decreased rig demand than many of our competitors’ higher specification rigs and have been reactivated later in the cycle, which has adversely impacted our business and could be repeated in the future. In addition, higher specification rigs may be more adaptable to different operating conditions and have greater flexibility to move to areas of demand in response to changes in market conditions. Furthermore, in recent years, an increasing amount of exploration and production expenditures have been concentrated in deeper water drilling programs and deeper formations, including deep natural gas prospects, requiring higher specification rigs. This trend is expected to continue and could result in a material decline in demand for the lower specification rigs in our fleet. Our ability to move some of our rigs to other regions is limited. Most jackup and submersible rigs can be moved from one region to another, and in this sense the contract drilling market is a global market. The supply and demand balance for jackup and semisubmersible rigs may vary somewhat from region to region, because the cost to move a rig is significant, there is limited availability of rig-moving vessels and some rigs are designed to work in specific regions. However, significant variations between regions tend not to exist on a long-term basis due to the ability to move rigs. Our mat-supported jackup rigs are less capable than independent leg jackup rigs of managing variable sea floor conditions found in most areas outside the Gulf of Mexico. As a result, our ability to move these rigs to other regions in response to changes in market conditions is limited. We rely heavily on a small number of customers and the loss of a significant customer could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Our contract drilling business is subject to the usual risks associated with having a limited number of customers for our services. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our four largest customers provided approximately 54% of our consolidated revenues. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if any of our major customers terminates its contracts with us, fails to renew its existing contracts or refuses to award new contracts to us and we are unable to enter into contracts with new customers at comparable dayrates. Our debt levels and debt agreement restrictions may limit our liquidity and flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. As of December 31, 2007, we had $1,191.5 million in long-term debt. This debt represents approximately 26% of our total capitalization. Our current indebtedness may have several important effects on our future operations, including: 16 Table of Contents • a portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on such debt and will not be available for other purposes; • covenants contained in our debt arrangements require us to meet certain financial tests, which may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our business and may limit our ability to dispose of assets or place restrictions on the use of proceeds from such dispositions, withstand current or future economic or industry downturns and compete with others in our industry for strategic opportunities; and • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate and other purposes may be limited. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and to fund planned expenditures, including construction costs for our three drillship construction projects, will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our future cash flows may be insufficient to meet all of our debt obligations and contractual commitments, and any insufficiency could negatively impact our business. To the extent we are unable to repay our indebtedness as it becomes due or at maturity with cash on hand or from other sources, we will need to refinance our debt, sell assets or repay the debt with the proceeds from equity offerings. We are subject to a number of operating hazards, including those specific to marine operations. We may not have insurance to cover all these hazards. Our operations are subject to hazards customary in the drilling industry, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, lost or stuck drill strings, equipment defects, punchthroughs, craterings, fires, explosions and pollution. Contract drilling and well servicing require the use of heavy equipment and exposure to hazardous conditions, which may subject us to liability claims by employees, customers and third parties. These hazards can cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage, claims by third parties or customers and suspension of operations. Our offshore fleet is also subject to hazards inherent in marine operations, either while on-site or during mobilization, such as capsizing, sinking, grounding, collision, damage from severe weather and marine life infestations. Operations may also be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services, or personnel shortages. We customarily provide contract indemnity to our customers for: • claims that could be asserted by us relating to damage to or loss of our equipment, including rigs; • claims that could be asserted by us or our employees relating to personal injury or loss of life; and • legal and financial consequences of spills of industrial waste and other liquids, but only to the extent (1) that the waste or other liquids were in our control at the time of the spill, (2) that our level of culpability is greater than mere negligence or (3) of specified monetary limits. Certain areas in and near the Gulf of Mexico are subject to hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a relatively frequent basis. Our drilling rigs in the Gulf of Mexico may be located in areas that could cause them to be susceptible to damage or total loss by these storms. In addition, damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas to our rigs, our shorebases and our corporate infrastructure could potentially cause us to curtail operations for significant periods of time until the damages can be repaired. We maintain insurance for injuries to our employees, damage to or loss of our equipment and other insurance coverage for normal business risks, including general liability insurance. Any insurance protection may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances or against all hazards to which we may be subject. For example, pollution, reservoir damage and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Except for a portion of our deepwater fleet, we generally do not maintain business interruption or loss of hire insurance. In addition, some of our primary insurance policies have substantial per occurrence or annual deductibles and/or self-insured aggregate amounts. As a result of a number of catastrophic events over the last few years, such as the hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico in 2004 and 2005, insurance underwriters increased insurance premiums for many of the coverages 17 Table of Contents historically maintained and issued general notices of cancellation and significant changes for a wide variety of insurance coverages. The oil and natural gas industry in the Gulf of Mexico suffered extensive damage from those hurricanes. As a result, our insurance costs and our deductibles increased significantly when our policies renewed in July 2006. Our insurance policy has a $16 million aggregate deductible. In addition, the marine package policy has a sub-limit of $110 million for physical damage claims due to a named windstorm in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. A number of our customers that produce oil and natural gas in the Gulf of Mexico have maintained business interruption insurance for their production. This insurance may cease to be available in the future, which could adversely impact our customers’ business prospects in the Gulf of Mexico and reduce demand for our services. The occurrence of a significant event against which we are not fully insured, or of a number of lesser events against which we are insured but are subject to substantial deductibles, aggregate limits, and/or self-insured amounts, could materially increase our costs and impair our profitability and financial condition. We may not be able to maintain adequate insurance at rates or on terms that we consider reasonable or acceptable or be able to obtain insurance against certain risks. We may not be able to maintain or replace our rigs as they age. The capital associated with the repair and maintenance of our fleet increases with age. We may not be able to maintain our fleet of existing rigs to compete effectively in the market, and our financial resources may not be sufficient to enable us to make expenditures necessary for these purposes or to acquire or build replacement rigs. Failure to secure a drilling contract prior to deployment of the uncontracted drillship under construction or any other rigs we may construct in the future prior to their deployment could adversely affect our future results of operations. Two of our three drillships under construction have long-term drilling contracts. The drillship remaining to be contracted is scheduled for delivery in the second quarter of 2010. We have not yet obtained a drilling contract for this drillship. In addition, we may commence the construction of additional rigs for our fleet from time to time without first obtaining a drilling contract covering any such rig. Our failure to secure a drilling contract for any rig under construction, including our remaining uncontracted drillship construction project, prior to its deployment could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. New technologies may cause our current drilling methods to become obsolete, resulting in an adverse effect on our business. The offshore contract drilling industry is subject to the introduction of new drilling techniques and services using new technologies, some of which may be subject to patent protection. As competitors and others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at substantial cost. In addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to benefit from technological advantages and implement new technologies before we can. We may not be able to implement technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. Our customers may be unable or unwilling to indemnify us. Consistent with standard industry practice, our clients generally assume, and indemnify us against, well control and subsurface risks under dayrate contracts. These risks are those associated with the loss of control of a well, such as blowout or cratering, the cost to regain control or redrill the well and associated pollution. There can be no assurance, however, that these clients will necessarily be willing or financially able to indemnify us against all these risks. Also, we may be effectively prevented from enforcing these indemnities because of the nature of our relationship with some of our larger clients. We are subject to numerous governmental laws and regulations, including those that may impose significant costs and liability on us for environmental and natural resource damages. Many aspects of our operations are affected by governmental laws and regulations that may relate directly or indirectly to the contract drilling and well servicing industries, including those requiring us to obtain and maintain specified permits or other governmental approvals and to control the discharge of oil and other contaminants into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Our operations and activities in the United States are 18 Table of Contents subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, including the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships. Additionally, other countries where we operate have environmental laws and regulations covering the discharge of oil and other contaminants and protection of the environment in connection with operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and even criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations and the issuance of injunctions that may limit or prohibit our operations. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become more stringent in recent years and may in certain circumstances impose strict liability, rendering us liable for environmental and natural resource damages without regard to negligence or fault on our part. These laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time the acts were performed. The application of these requirements, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or development drilling for oil and natural gas could materially limit future contract drilling opportunities or materially increase our costs or both. In addition, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with laws and regulations or materially increase our costs or both. Our ability to operate our rigs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico could be restricted or made more costly by government regulation. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005 caused damage to a number of rigs in the Gulf of Mexico fleet, and rigs that were moved off location by the storms damaged platforms, pipelines, wellheads and other drilling rigs. In May 2006 and April 2007, the MMS issued interim guidelines for jackup rig fitness requirements for the 2006 hurricane season, effectively imposing new requirements on the offshore oil and natural gas industry in an attempt to increase the likelihood of survival of jackup rigs and other offshore drilling units during a hurricane. These MMS interim guidelines, the latest of which expired on November 30, 2007, resulted in our jackup rigs operating in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico being required to operate with a higher air gap during the 2006 and 2007 hurricane seasons, effectively reducing the water depth in which they can operate. The guidelines also provided for enhanced information and data requirements from oil and natural gas companies operating properties in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. The MMS may issue similar guidelines for future hurricane seasons and may take other steps that could increase the cost of operations or reduce the area of operations for our jackup rigs, thus reducing their marketability. Implementation of new MMS guidelines or regulations may subject us to increased costs and limit the operational capabilities of our rigs. A change in tax laws of any country in which we operate could result in a higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings. We conduct our worldwide operations through various subsidiaries. Tax laws and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation. Consequently, we are subject to changing tax laws, treaties and regulations in and between countries in which we operate, including treaties between the United States and other nations. Our income tax expense is based upon our interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various countries at the time that the expense was incurred. A change in these tax laws, treaties or regulations, including those in and involving the United States, or in the interpretation thereof, or in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, could result in a materially higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings. As required by law, we file periodic tax returns that are subject to review and examination by various revenue agencies within the jurisdictions in which we operate. We are currently contesting several tax assessments that could be material and may contest future assessments where we believe the assessments are in error. We cannot predict or provide assurance as to the ultimate outcome of existing or future tax assessments. Unionization efforts and labor regulations in certain countries in which we operate could materially increase our costs or limit our flexibility. Certain of our employees in international markets are represented by labor unions and work under collective bargaining or similar agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiation. Efforts have been made from time to time to unionize other portions of our workforce. In addition, we have been subjected to strikes or work stoppages and other labor disruptions in certain countries. Additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining agreements or work stoppages could materially increase our costs or limit our flexibility. 19 Table of Contents Certain legal obligations require us to contribute certain amounts to retirement funds and pension plans and restrict our ability to dismiss employees. Future regulations or court interpretations established in the countries in which we conduct our operations could increase our costs and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. We may incur substantial costs associated with workforce reductions. In many of the countries in which we operate, our workforce has certain compensation and other rights arising from our various collective bargaining agreements and from statutory requirements of those countries relating to involuntary terminations. If we choose to cease operations in one of those countries or if market conditions reduce the demand for our drilling services in such a country, we could incur costs, which may be material, associated with workforce reductions. Public health threats could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our financial results. Public health threats, such as the bird flu, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and other highly communicable diseases, could adversely impact our operations, the operations of our clients and the global economy in general, including the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas and the level of demand for our services. Any quarantine of personnel or inability to access our offices or rigs could adversely affect our operations. Travel restrictions or operational problems in any part of the world in which we operate, or any reduction in the demand for drilling services caused by public health threats in the future, may materially impact operations and adversely affect our financial results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 