ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors About Our Business A material or extended decline in expenditures by oil and natural gas companies due to a decline or volatility in crude oil and natural gas prices, a decrease in demand for crude oil and natural gas or other factors may reduce demand for our services and substantially reduce our profitability or result in our incurring losses. The profitability of our operations depends upon conditions in the oil and natural gas industry and, specifically, the level of exploration, development and production activity by oil and natural gas companies. Crude oil and natural gas prices and market expectations regarding potential changes in these prices significantly affect this level of activity. However, higher commodity prices do not necessarily translate into increased drilling activity because our customers’ expectations of future commodity prices typically drive demand for our rigs. Crude oil and natural gas prices are volatile. Commodity prices are directly influenced by many factors beyond our control, including: • the demand for crude oil and natural gas; • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering crude oil and natural gas; • expectations regarding future energy prices; • advances in exploration, development and production technology; • government regulations; • local and international political, economic and weather conditions; • the ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and prices; • the level of production in non-OPEC countries; • domestic and foreign tax policies; • the development and exploitation of alternative fuels; • the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and natural gas reserves; • acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere; and • the worldwide military and political environment and uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in the Middle East and other oil and natural gas producing regions. The recent worldwide financial and credit crisis has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide. The shortage of liquidity and credit combined with recent substantial losses in worldwide equity markets could lead to an extended worldwide economic recession or depression. In addition, continued hostilities in the Middle East and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks against the United States or other countries could further the downturn in the economies of the United States and those of other countries. A slowdown in economic activity would likely reduce worldwide demand for energy and result in an extended period of lower crude oil and natural gas prices. Any prolonged reduction in crude oil and natural gas prices will depress the levels of exploration, development and production activity. Moreover, even during periods of high commodity prices, customers may cancel or curtail their drilling programs, or reduce their levels of capital expenditures for exploration and production for a variety of reasons, including their lack of success in exploration efforts. These factors could cause our revenues and margins to decline, decrease daily rates and 10 utilization of our rigs and limit our future growth prospects. Any significant decrease in daily rates or utilization of our rigs, particularly our high-specification drillships, semisubmersible rigs or jackup rigs, could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. In addition, these risks could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets and make it more difficult for us to access capital and to obtain insurance coverages that we consider adequate or are otherwise required by our contracts. The global financial and credit crisis may have impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. The continued credit crisis and related instability in the global financial system has had, and may continue to have, an impact on our business and our financial condition. We may face significant challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve. Our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access such markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The financial and credit crisis could have an impact on the lenders under our credit facility, on our customers, on our vendors or on the counterparties to our derivative contracts, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. Such crisis may also adversely affect the ability of shipyards to meet scheduled deliveries of our newbuild and other shipyard projects. Our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate some of our drilling contracts during periods of depressed market conditions or if we experience downtime, operational difficulties, or safety-related issues. Currently, our contracts with customers are dayrate contracts, where we charge a fixed charge per day regardless of the number of days needed to drill the well. During depressed market conditions, a customer may no longer need a rig that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable rig at a lower daily rate. As a result, customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing drilling contracts or avoid their obligations under those contracts. In addition, our customers may have the right to terminate, or may seek to renegotiate, existing contracts if we experience downtime or operational problems above the contractual limit or specified safety-related issues, if the rig is a total loss, if the rig is not delivered to the customer or, in certain circumstances, does not pass acceptance testing within the period specified in the contract or in other specified circumstances, which include events beyond the control of either party. Some of our contracts with our customers include terms allowing them to terminate contracts without cause, with little or no prior notice and without penalty or early termination payments. In addition, we could be required to pay penalties, which could be material, if some of our contracts with our customers are terminated due to downtime, operational problems or failure to deliver. Some of our other contracts with customers may be cancelable at the option of the customer upon payment of a penalty, which may not fully compensate us for the loss of the contract. In addition, a customer that is the subject of a bankruptcy filing may elect to reject its drilling contract. Early termination of a contract may result in a rig being idle for an extended period of time. The likelihood that a customer may seek to terminate a contract is increased during periods of market weakness. If our customers cancel some of our significant contracts and we are unable to secure new contracts on substantially similar terms, or at all, our revenues and profitability could be materially reduced. Rig upgrade, refurbishment, repair and construction projects are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse impact on our available cash resources and results of operations. We have expended, and will continue to expend, significant amounts of capital to complete the construction of our four drillships currently under construction. Depending on available opportunities, we may construct additional rigs for our fleet in the future. In addition, we make significant upgrade, refurbishment and repair expenditures for our fleet from time to time, particularly in light of the aging nature of our rigs. Some of these expenditures are unplanned. In 2009, we expect to spend approximately $735 million with respect to the construction of our four drillships and an additional approximately $350 million with respect to the refurbishment and upgrade of other rigs. All of these projects are subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns, including costs or delays resulting from the following: • unexpectedly long delivery times for or shortages of key equipment, parts and materials; • shortages of skilled labor and other shipyard personnel necessary to perform the work; 11 • failure or delay of third-party equipment vendors or service providers; • unforeseen increases in the cost of equipment, labor and raw materials, particularly steel; • unforeseen design or engineering problems, including those relating to the commissioning of newly designed equipment; • unanticipated actual or purported change orders; • client acceptance delays; • disputes with shipyards and suppliers; • work stoppages and other labor disputes; • latent damages or deterioration to hull, equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions; • financial or other difficulties at shipyards and suppliers; • acts of war; • adverse weather conditions; and • inability to obtain required permits or approvals. Significant cost overruns or delays could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. Some of our risks are concentrated because our four drillships currently under construction are located at one shipyard in South Korea. Delays in the delivery of rigs being constructed or undergoing upgrade, refurbishment or repair may, in many cases, result in delay in contract commencement, resulting in a loss of revenue to us, and may also cause our customer to renegotiate the drilling contract for the rig or terminate or shorten the term of the contract under applicable late delivery clauses. In the event of termination of one of these contracts, we may not be able to secure a replacement contract on as favorable terms, if at all. Additionally, capital expenditures for rig upgrade, refurbishment and construction projects could materially exceed our planned capital expenditures. Moreover, our rigs undergoing upgrade, refurbishment and repair may not earn a dayrate during the period they are out of service. An oversupply of comparable or higher specification rigs in the markets in which we compete could depress the demand and contract prices for our rigs and materially reduce our revenues and profitability. Demand and contract prices customers pay for our rigs also are affected by the total supply of comparable rigs available for service in the markets in which we compete. During prior periods of high utilization and dayrates, industry participants have increased the supply of rigs by ordering the construction of new units. This has often created an oversupply of drilling units and has caused a decline in utilization and dayrates when the rigs enter the market, sometimes for extended periods of time as rigs have been absorbed into the active fleet. A total of approximately 45 new jackup rigs entered the market in 2007 and 2008, and approximately 73 jackup rigs are on order or under construction with delivery dates ranging from 2009 to 2011. Most of these units are cantilevered units and are considered to be of a higher specification than our jackup rig fleet, because they generally are larger, have greater deckloads and have water depth ratings of 300 feet or greater. In addition, independent leg rigs are more commonly accepted by exploration and production companies outside the United States. In the deepwater sector, four drillships and five new semi-submersible rigs entered the market in 2007 and 2008, and there have been announcements of approximately 92 new semisubmersible rigs and drillships, including our four drillship construction projects, with delivery forecasted to occur from 2009 through 2012. A number of the contracts for units currently under construction provide for options for the construction of additional units, and further new construction announcements may occur for all classes of rigs pursuant to the exercise of one or more of these options and otherwise. Not all of the rigs currently under construction have been contracted for future work, which may intensify price competition as scheduled delivery dates occur. In addition, our and our competitors’ rigs that are “stacked” (i.e., minimally crewed with little or no scheduled maintenance being performed) may re-enter the 12 market. The entry into service of newly constructed, upgraded or reactivated units will increase marketed supply and could reduce, or curtail a strengthening of, dayrates in the affected markets as rigs are absorbed into the active fleet. Any further increase in construction of new drilling units may negatively affect utilization and dayrates. In addition, the new construction of high specification rigs, as well as changes in our competitors’ drilling rig fleets, could require us to make material additional capital investments to keep our rig fleet competitive. Our industry is highly competitive and cyclical, with intense price competition. Our industry is highly competitive. Our contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Pricing, safety record and competency are key factors in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. Rig availability, location and technical ability also can be significant factors in the determination. Some of our competitors in the drilling industry are larger than we are and have more diverse fleets, or fleets with generally higher specifications, and greater resources than we have. Some of these competitors also are incorporated in tax-haven countries outside the United States, which provides them with significant tax advantages that are not available to us as a U.S. company and which may materially impair our ability to compete with them for many projects that would be beneficial to our company. In addition, recent mergers within the oil and natural gas industry have reduced the number of available customers, resulting in increased competition for projects. We may not be able to maintain our competitive position, and we believe that competition for contracts will continue to be intense in the foreseeable future. Our inability to compete successfully may reduce our revenues and profitability. Historically, the offshore service industry has been highly cyclical, with periods of high demand, limited rig supply and high dayrates often followed by periods of low demand, excess rig supply and low dayrates. Periods of low demand and excess rig supply intensify the competition in the industry and often result in rigs, particularly lower specification rigs like a large portion of our fleet, being idle for long periods of time. We may be required to stack rigs or enter into lower dayrate contracts in response to market conditions. Prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates could result in the recognition of impairment charges on certain of our rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable. Consolidation of suppliers may limit our ability to obtain supplies and services at an acceptable cost, on our schedule or at all. Our operations rely on a significant supply of capital and consumable spare parts and equipment to maintain and repair our fleet. We also rely on the supply of ancillary services, including supply boats and helicopters. Recent mergers have reduced the number of available suppliers, resulting in fewer alternatives for sourcing of key supplies and services. We may not be able to obtain supplies and services at an acceptable cost, at the times we need them or at all. These cost increases, delays or unavailability could negatively impact our future operations and result in increases in rig downtime, and delays in the repair and maintenance of our fleet. Failure to attract and retain skilled personnel or an increase in labor costs could hurt our operations. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for the skilled and other labor required for our operations intensifies as the number of rigs activated or added to worldwide fleets or under construction increases, creating upward pressure on wages. In periods of high utilization, we have found it more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. We have experienced tightening in the relevant labor markets since 2005 and have recently sustained the loss of experienced personnel to our customers and competitors. Our labor costs increased significantly since 2005 and, while we expect this trend to moderate in 2009, shortages of certain skilled positions and in certain geographic locations may continue. The shortages of qualified personnel or the inability to obtain and retain qualified personnel could negatively affect the quality, safety and timeliness of our work. In addition, our ability to crew our four new drillships and to expand our deepwater operations depends in part upon our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. We have intensified our recruitment and training programs in an effort to meet our anticipated personnel needs. These efforts may be unsuccessful, and competition for skilled personnel could materially impact our business by limiting or affecting the quality and safety of our operations or further increasing our costs. 13 Our international operations involve additional risks not generally associated with domestic operations, which may hurt our operations materially. In 2008, we derived 86% of our revenues from countries outside the United States. Our operations in these areas are subject to the following risks, among others: • foreign currency fluctuations and devaluations; • restrictions on currency or capital repatriation; • political, social and economic instability, war and civil disturbances; • seizure, expropriation or nationalization of assets or confiscatory taxation; • significant governmental influence over many aspects of local economies; • unexpected changes in law and regulatory requirements, including changes in interpretation or enforcement of existing laws; • work stoppages; • damage to our equipment or violence directed at our employees, including kidnappings; • complications associated with repairing and replacing equipment in remote locations; • repudiation, nullification, modification or renegotiation of contracts; • limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk coverage, in certain areas; • piracy; • imposition of trade barriers; • wage and price controls; • import-export quotas; • uncertainty or instability resulting from hostilities or other crises in the Middle East, West Africa, Latin America or other geographic areas in which we operate; • acts of terrorism; and • other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control. We may experience currency exchange losses where revenues are received or expenses are paid in nonconvertible currencies or where we do not take protective measures against exposure to a foreign currency. We may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. We attempt to limit the risks of currency fluctuation and restrictions on currency repatriation where possible by obtaining contracts providing for payment in U.S. dollars or freely convertible foreign currency. To the extent possible, we seek to limit our exposure to local currencies by matching the acceptance of local currencies to our expense requirements in those currencies. Although we have done this in the past, we may not be able to take these actions in the future, thereby exposing us to foreign currency fluctuations that could cause our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows to deteriorate materially. 14 Our ability to compete in international contract drilling markets may be limited by foreign governmental regulations that favor or require the awarding of contracts to local contractors or by regulations requiring foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. Furthermore, our foreign subsidiaries may face governmentally imposed restrictions from time to time on their ability to transfer funds to us. Finally, governments in some foreign countries have become increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions and companies holding concessions, the exploration for oil and natural gas and other aspects of the oil and natural gas industries in their countries. In some areas of the world, this governmental activity has adversely affected the amount of exploration and development work done by major oil and natural gas companies and may continue to do so. Operations in less developed countries can be subject to legal systems which are not as mature or predictable as those in more developed countries, which can lead to greater uncertainty in legal matters and proceedings. The shipment of goods, services and technology across international borders subjects us to extensive trade laws and regulations. Our import activities are governed by unique customs laws and regulations in each of the countries where we operate. Moreover, many countries, including the United States, control the export and re-export of certain goods, services and technology and impose related export recordkeeping and reporting obligations. Governments also may impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons and other entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons and entities. The laws and regulations concerning import activity, export recordkeeping and reporting, export control and economic sanctions are complex and constantly changing. These laws and regulations may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner materially impacting our operations. Shipments can be delayed and denied export or entry for a variety of reasons, some of which are outside our control and some of which may result from failure to comply with existing legal and regulatory regimes. Shipping delays or denials could cause unscheduled operational downtime. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory trading obligations also could result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from government contracts, seizure of shipments and loss of import and export privileges. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, our employees, contractors and agents may take actions in violation of our policies and such laws. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could materially and adversely affect our business. We are conducting an investigation into allegations of improper payments to foreign government officials, as well as corresponding accounting entries and internal control issues. The outcome and impact of this investigation are unknown at this time. During the course of an internal audit and investigation relating to certain of our Latin American operations, our management and internal audit department received allegations of improper payments to foreign government officials. In February 2006, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors assumed direct responsibility over the investigation and retained independent outside counsel to investigate the allegations, as well as corresponding accounting entries and internal control issues, and to advise the Audit Committee. The investigation, which is continuing, has found evidence suggesting that payments, which may violate the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, were made to government officials in Venezuela and Mexico aggregating less than $1 million. The evidence to date regarding these payments suggests that payments were made beginning in early 2003 through 2005 (a) to vendors with the intent that they would be transferred to government officials for the purpose of extending drilling contracts for two jackup rigs and one semisubmersible rig operating offshore Venezuela; and (b) to one or more government officials, or to vendors with the intent that they would be transferred to government officials, for the purpose of collecting payment for work completed in connection with offshore drilling contracts in Venezuela. In addition, the evidence suggests that other payments were made beginning in 2002 through early 2006 (a) to one or more government officials in Mexico in connection with the clearing of a jackup rig and equipment through customs, the movement of personnel through immigration or the acceptance of a jackup rig under a drilling contract; and (b) with respect to the potentially improper entertainment of government officials in Mexico. 15 The Audit Committee, through independent outside counsel, has undertaken a review of our compliance with the FCPA in certain of our other international operations. In addition, the U.S. Department of Justice has asked us to provide information with respect to (a) our relationships with a freight and customs agent and (b) our importation of rigs into Nigeria. The Audit Committee is reviewing the issues raised by the request, and we are cooperating with the DOJ in connection with its request. This review has found evidence suggesting that during the period from 2001 through 2006 payments were made directly or indirectly to government officials in Saudi Arabia, Kazakhstan, Brazil, Nigeria, Libya, Angola, and the Republic of the Congo in connection with clearing rigs or equipment through customs or resolving outstanding issues with customs, immigration, tax, licensing or merchant marine authorities in those countries. In addition, this review has found evidence suggesting that in 2003 payments were made to one or more third parties with the intent that they would be transferred to a government official in India for the purpose of resolving a customs dispute related to the importation of one of our jackup rigs. The evidence suggests that the aggregate amount of payments referred to in this paragraph is less than $2.5 million. We are also reviewing certain agent payments related to Malaysia. The investigation of the matters described in the prior paragraph and the Audit Committee’s compliance review are ongoing. Accordingly, there can be no assurances that evidence of additional potential FCPA violations may not be uncovered in those or other countries. Our management and the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors believe it likely that then members of our senior operations management either were aware, or should have been aware, that improper payments to foreign government officials were made or proposed to be made. Our former Chief Operating Officer resigned as Chief Operating Officer effective on May 31, 2006 and has elected to retire from the company, although he will remain an employee, but not an officer, during the pendency of the investigation to assist us with the investigation and to be available for consultation and to answer questions relating to our business. His retirement benefits will be subject to the determination by our Audit Committee or our Board of Directors that it does not have cause (as defined in his retirement agreement with us) to terminate his employment. Other personnel, including officers, have been terminated or placed on administrative leave or have resigned in connection with the investigation. We have taken and will continue to take disciplinary actions where appropriate and various other corrective action to reinforce our commitment to conducting our business ethically and legally and to instill in our employees our expectation that they uphold the highest levels of honesty, integrity, ethical standards and compliance with the law. We voluntarily disclosed information relating to the initial allegations and other information found in the investigation and compliance review to the DOJ and the Securities and Exchange Commission and are cooperating with these authorities as the investigation and compliance reviews continue and as they review the matter. If violations of the FCPA occurred, we could be subject to fines, civil and criminal penalties, equitable remedies, including profit disgorgement, and injunctive relief. Civil penalties under the antibribery provisions of the FCPA could range up to $10,000 per violation, with a criminal fine up to the greater of $2 million per violation or twice the gross pecuniary gain to us or twice the gross pecuniary loss to others, if larger. Civil penalties under the accounting provisions of the FCPA can range up to $500,000 and a company that knowingly commits a violation can be fined up to $25 million. In addition, both the SEC and the DOJ could assert that conduct extending over a period of time may constitute multiple violations for purposes of assessing the penalty amounts. Often, dispositions for these types of matters result in modifications to business practices and compliance programs and possibly a monitor being appointed to review future business and practices with the goal of ensuring compliance with the FCPA. We could also face fines, sanctions and other penalties from authorities in the relevant foreign jurisdictions, including prohibition of our participating in or curtailment of business operations in those jurisdictions and the seizure of rigs or other assets. Our customers in those jurisdictions could seek to impose penalties or take other actions adverse to our interests. We could also face other third-party claims by directors, officers, employees, affiliates, advisors, attorneys, agents, stockholders, debt holders, or other interest holders or constituents of our company. In addition, disclosure of the subject matter of the investigation could adversely affect our reputation and our ability to obtain new business or retain existing business from our current clients and potential clients, to attract and retain employees and to access the capital markets. No amounts have been accrued related to any potential fines, sanctions, claims or other penalties, which could be material individually or in the aggregate. We cannot currently predict what, if any, actions may be taken by the DOJ, the SEC, any other applicable government or other authorities or our customers or other third parties or the effect the actions may have on our results of operations, 16 financial condition or cash flows, on our consolidated financial statements or on our business in the countries at issue and other jurisdictions. If we are unable to renew or obtain new and favorable contracts for rigs whose contracts are expiring or are terminated, our revenues and profitability could be materially reduced. We have a number of contracts that will expire in 2009 and 2010. Our ability to renew these contracts or obtain new contracts and the terms of any such contracts will depend on market conditions. We may be unable to renew our expiring contracts or obtain new contracts for the rigs under contracts that have expired or been terminated, and the dayrates under any new contracts may be substantially below the existing dayrates, which could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. Many of our contracts with our customers for our offshore rigs are long-term dayrate contracts. Increases in our costs, which are unpredictable and fluctuate based on events outside our control, could adversely impact our profitability. In periods of rising demand for offshore rigs, a drilling contractor generally would prefer to enter into well-to-well or other shorter term contracts that would allow the contractor to profit from increasing dayrates, while customers with reasonably definite drilling programs would typically prefer longer term contracts in order to maintain dayrates at a consistent level. Conversely, in periods of decreasing demand for offshore rigs, a drilling contractor generally would prefer longer term contracts to preserve dayrates and utilization, while customers generally would prefer well-to-well or other shorter term contracts that would allow the customer to benefit from the decreasing dayrates. In 2008, a majority of our revenue was derived from long-term dayrate contracts, and substantially all of our backlog as of December 31, 2008 was attributable to long-term dayrate contracts. As a result, our inability to fully benefit from increasing dayrates in an improving market may limit our profitability. In general, our costs increase as the business environment for drilling services improves and demand for oilfield equipment and skilled labor increases. While many of our contracts include escalation provisions that allow us to increase the dayrate based on stipulated costs increases, the timing and amount earned from these dayrate increases may differ from our actual increase in costs. Additionally, if our rigs incur idle time between contracts, we typically do not remove personnel from those rigs because we will use the crew to prepare the rig for its next contract. During times of reduced activity, reductions in costs may not be immediate as portions of the crew may be required to prepare our rigs for stacking, after which time the crew members are assigned to active rigs or dismissed. Moreover, as our rigs are mobilized from one geographic location to another, the labor and other operating and maintenance costs can vary significantly. In general, labor costs increase primarily due to higher salary levels and inflation. Equipment maintenance expenses fluctuate depending upon the type of activity the unit is performing and the age and condition of the equipment. Contract preparation expenses vary based on the scope and length of contract preparation required and the duration of the firm contractual period over which such expenditures are amortized. Our current backlog of contract drilling revenue may not be ultimately realized. As of December 31, 2008, our contract drilling backlog was approximately $8.6 billion for future revenues under firm commitments. We may not be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond our control, and our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate our contracts for various reasons, including those described above or in connection with the ongoing financial crisis. Our inability or the inability of our customers to perform under our or their contractual obligations may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our jackup rigs and some of our lower specification semisubmersible rigs are at a relative disadvantage to higher specification jackup and semisubmersible rigs. These higher specification rigs may be more likely to obtain contracts than our lower specification rigs, particularly during market downturns. Some of our competitors have jackup fleets with generally higher specification rigs than those in our jackup fleet, and our fleet includes a number of older and/or lower specification semisubmersible rigs. In addition, the 17 announced construction of approximately 165 new rigs includes jackup rigs, semisubmersible rigs and deepwater drillships. Particularly during market downturns when there is decreased rig demand, higher specification rigs may be more likely to obtain contracts than lower specification rigs. Some of our significant customers may also begin to require higher specification rigs for the types of projects that currently utilize our lower specification rigs, which could materially affect their utilization. In the past, our lower specification rigs have been stacked earlier in the cycle of decreased rig demand than many of our competitors’ higher specification rigs and have been reactivated later in the cycle, which has adversely impacted our business and could be repeated in the future. In addition, higher specification rigs may be more adaptable to different operating conditions and have greater flexibility to move to areas of demand in response to changes in market conditions. Furthermore, in recent years, an increasing amount of exploration and production expenditures have been concentrated in deeper water drilling programs and deeper formations, including deep natural gas prospects, requiring higher specification rigs. This trend is expected to continue and could result in a material decline in demand for the lower specification rigs in our fleet. Our ability to move some of our rigs to other regions is limited. Most jackup and semisubmersible rigs and drillships can be moved from one region to another, and in this sense the contract drilling market is a global market. The supply and demand balance for these rigs may vary somewhat from region to region because the cost to move a rig is significant, there is limited availability of rig-moving vessels and some rigs are designed to work in specific regions. However, significant variations between regions tend not to exist on a long-term basis due to the ability to move rigs. Our mat-supported jackup rigs are less capable than independent leg jackup rigs of managing variable sea floor conditions found in most areas outside the Gulf of Mexico. As a result, our ability to move these rigs to other regions in response to changes in market conditions is limited. We rely heavily on a small number of customers. The loss of a significant customer could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Our contract drilling business is subject to the usual risks associated with having a limited number of customers for our services. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our four largest customers provided approximately 58% of our consolidated revenues. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if any of our major customers terminates its contracts with us, fails to renew its existing contracts or refuses to award new contracts to us and we are unable to enter into contracts with new customers at comparable dayrates. Our debt levels and debt agreement restrictions may limit our liquidity and flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. As of December 31, 2008, we had $723.2 million in debt. This debt represented approximately 14% of our total capitalization. Our current indebtedness may have several important effects on our future operations, including: • a portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on such debt and will not be available for other purposes; • covenants contained in our debt arrangements require us to meet certain financial tests, which may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our business and may limit our ability to dispose of assets or place restrictions on the use of proceeds from such dispositions, withstand current or future economic or industry downturns and compete with others in our industry for strategic opportunities; and • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate and other purposes may be limited. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and to fund planned expenditures, including construction costs for our four drillship construction projects, will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our future cash flows may be insufficient to meet all of our debt obligations 18 and contractual commitments, and any insufficiency could negatively impact our business. To the extent we are unable to repay our indebtedness as it becomes due or at maturity with cash on hand or from other sources, we will need to refinance our debt, sell assets or repay the debt with the proceeds from equity offerings. We are subject to a number of operating hazards, including those specific to marine operations. We may not have insurance to cover all these hazards. Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the drilling industry, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, lost or stuck drill strings, equipment defects, punchthroughs, craterings, fires, explosions and pollution. Contract drilling and well servicing require the use of heavy equipment and exposure to hazardous conditions, which may subject us to liability claims by employees, customers and third parties. These hazards can cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage, claims by third parties or customers and suspension of operations. Our offshore fleet is also subject to hazards inherent in marine operations, either while on-site or during mobilization, such as capsizing, sinking, grounding, collision, damage from severe weather and marine life infestations. Operations may also be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services, or personnel shortages. We customarily provide contract indemnity to our customers for: • claims that could be asserted by us relating to damage to or loss of our equipment, including rigs; • claims that could be asserted by us or our employees relating to personal injury or loss of life; and • legal and financial consequences of spills of industrial waste and other liquids, but generally only to the extent (1) that the waste or other liquids were in our control at the time of the spill, (2) that our level of culpability is greater than mere negligence or (3) of specified monetary limits. Certain areas in and near the Gulf of Mexico are subject to hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a relatively frequent basis. Our drilling rigs in the Gulf of Mexico may be located in areas that could cause them to be susceptible to damage or total loss by these storms. For example, in September 2008, one of our mat-supported jackup rigs operating in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, the Pride Wyoming, was lost as a result of Hurricane Ike. In addition, damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas to our rigs, our shorebases and our corporate infrastructure could potentially cause us to curtail operations for significant periods of time until the damages can be repaired. We maintain insurance for injuries to our employees, damage to or loss of our equipment and other insurance coverage for normal business risks, including general liability insurance. Any insurance protection may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances or against all hazards to which we may be subject. For example, pollution, reservoir damage and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Except for a portion of our deepwater fleet, we generally do not maintain business interruption or loss of hire insurance. In addition, some of our primary insurance policies have substantial per occurrence or annual deductibles and/or self-insured aggregate amounts. As a result of a number of catastrophic events over the last few years, such as the hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico, insurance underwriters have increased insurance premiums for many of the coverages historically maintained and made significant changes to a wide variety of insurance coverages. The oil and natural gas industry in the Gulf of Mexico suffered extensive damage from those hurricanes. As a result, our insurance costs and our deductibles have increased significantly. Our insurance policy has a $10 million aggregate deductible, and a $10 million per occurrence deductible. In addition, the marine package policy has a sub-limit of $110 million for physical damage claims due to a named windstorm in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. A number of our customers that produce oil and natural gas in the Gulf of Mexico have maintained business interruption insurance for their production. This insurance may cease to be available in the future, which could adversely impact our customers’ business prospects in the Gulf of Mexico and reduce demand for our services. It is unclear what actions insurance underwriters will take as a result of the 2008 hurricane season. 19 The occurrence of a significant event against which we are not fully insured, or of a number of lesser events against which we are insured but are subject to substantial deductibles, aggregate limits, and/or self-insured amounts, could materially increase our costs and impair our profitability and financial condition. We may not be able to maintain adequate insurance at rates or on terms that we consider reasonable or acceptable or be able to obtain insurance against certain risks. We are responsible for costs and awards relating to the loss of the Pride Wyoming that are not covered by our insurance. In September 2008, the Pride Wyoming, a 250-foot slot-type jackup rig operating in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, was deemed a total loss for insurance purposes after it was severely damaged and sank as a result of Hurricane Ike. We expect to incur costs of approximately $48.6 million for removal of the wreckage and salvage operations, not including any costs arising from damage to offshore structures owned by third parties. These costs for removal of the wreckage and salvage operations in excess of a $1 million retention are expected to be covered by our insurance. We will be responsible for payment of the $1 million retention, $2.5 million in premium payments for a removal of wreckage claim and for any costs not covered by our insurance. The owners of two pipelines on which parts of the Pride Wyoming settled have requested that we pay for all costs, expenses and other losses associated with the damage, including loss of revenue. Each owner has claimed damages in excess of $40 million. Other pieces of the rig may have also caused damage to certain other offshore structures. In October 2008, we filed a complaint in the U.S. Federal District Court pursuant to the Limitation of Liability Act, which has the potential to statutorily limit our exposure for claims arising out of third-party damages caused by the loss of the Pride Wyoming. We will be responsible for any awards not covered by our insurance. We may not be able to maintain or replace our rigs as they age. The capital associated with the repair and maintenance of our fleet increases with age. We may not be able to maintain our fleet of existing rigs to compete effectively in the market, and our financial resources may not be sufficient to enable us to make expenditures necessary for these purposes or to acquire or build replacement rigs. We may incur substantial costs associated with workforce reductions. In many of the countries in which we operate, our workforce has certain compensation and other rights arising from our various collective bargaining agreements and from statutory requirements of those countries relating to involuntary terminations. If we choose to cease operations in one of those countries or if market conditions reduce the demand for our drilling services in such a country, we could incur costs, which may be material, associated with workforce reductions. Failure to secure a drilling contract prior to deployment of the uncontracted drillship under construction or any other rigs we may construct in the future prior to their deployment could adversely affect our future results of operations. Three of our four drillships under construction have long-term drilling contracts. The drillship remaining to be contracted is scheduled for delivery in the fourth quarter of 2011. We have not yet obtained a drilling contract for this drillship. In addition, we may commence the construction of additional rigs for our fleet from time to time without first obtaining a drilling contract covering any such rig. Our failure to secure a drilling contract for any rig under construction, including our remaining uncontracted drillship construction project, prior to its deployment could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. New technologies may cause our current drilling methods to become obsolete, resulting in an adverse effect on our business. The offshore contract drilling industry is subject to the introduction of new drilling techniques and services using new technologies, some of which may be subject to patent protection. As competitors and others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at substantial cost. In addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical and 20 personnel resources that allow them to benefit from technological advantages and implement new technologies before we can. We may not be able to implement technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. Our customers may be unable or unwilling to indemnify us. Consistent with standard industry practice, our customers generally assume, and indemnify us against, well control and subsurface risks under dayrate contracts. These risks are those associated with the loss of control of a well, such as blowout or cratering, the cost to regain control or redrill the well and associated pollution. There can be no assurance, however, that these customers will necessarily be willing or financially able to indemnify us against all these risks. Also, we may choose not to enforce these indemnities because of the nature of our relationship with some of our larger customers. We are subject to numerous governmental laws and regulations, including those that may impose significant costs and liability on us for environmental and natural resource damages. Many aspects of our operations are affected by governmental laws and regulations that may relate directly or indirectly to the contract drilling and well servicing industries, including those requiring us to obtain and maintain specified permits or other governmental approvals and to control the discharge of oil and other contaminants into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Our operations and activities in the United States are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, including the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act and the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships. Additionally, other countries where we operate have adopted, and could in the future adopt additional, environmental laws and regulations covering the discharge of oil and other contaminants and protection of the environment that could be applicable to our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and even criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations and the issuance of injunctions that may limit or prohibit our operations. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become more stringent in recent years and may in certain circumstances impose strict liability, rendering us liable for environmental and natural resource damages without regard to negligence or fault on our part. These laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time the acts were performed. The application of these requirements, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or development drilling for oil and natural gas could materially limit future contract drilling opportunities or materially increase our costs or both. In addition, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with laws and regulations or materially increase our costs or both. Our ability to operate our rigs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico could be restricted or made more costly by government regulation. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005 and Hurricanes Gustav and Ike in 2008 caused damage to a number of rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. Rigs that were moved off location by the storms damaged platforms, pipelines, wellheads and other drilling rigs. In May 2006 and April 2007, the MMS issued interim guidelines for jackup rig fitness requirements for the 2006 and 2007 hurricane seasons, effectively imposing new requirements on the offshore oil and natural gas industry in an attempt to increase the likelihood of survival of jackup rigs and other offshore drilling units during a hurricane. Effective June 2008, the MMS issued longer-term guidelines, generally consistent with the interim guidelines, for jackup rig fitness requirements during hurricane seasons. The June 2008 guidelines are scheduled to be effective through the 2013 hurricane season. As a result of these MMS guidelines, our jackup rigs operating in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico are being required to operate with a higher air gap (the space between the water level and the bottom of the rig’s hull) during the hurricane season, effectively reducing the water depth in which they can operate. The guidelines also provide for enhanced information and data requirements from oil and natural gas companies operating properties in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. The MMS may take other steps that could increase the cost of operations or reduce the area of operations for our jackup rigs, thus reducing their marketability. Implementation of the MMS guidelines or regulations may subject us to increased costs and limit the operational capabilities of our rigs. 21 A change in tax laws of any country in which we operate could result in a higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings. We conduct our worldwide operations through various subsidiaries. Tax laws and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation. Consequently, we are subject to changing tax laws, treaties and regulations in and between countries in which we operate, including treaties between the United States and other nations. Our income tax expense is based upon our interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various countries at the time that the expense was incurred. A change in these tax laws, treaties or regulations, including those in and involving the United States, or in the interpretation thereof, or in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, could result in a materially higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings. As required by law, we file periodic tax returns that are subject to review and examination by various revenue agencies within the jurisdictions in which we operate. We are currently contesting several tax assessments that could be material and may contest future assessments where we believe the assessments are in error. We cannot predict or provide assurance as to the ultimate outcome of existing or future tax assessments. We have received and are contesting tax assessments from the Mexican government, and we could receive additional assessments in the future. In 2006, we received tax assessments from the Mexican government related to the operations of certain entities for the tax years 2001 through 2003. As required by statutory requirements, we have provided bonds totaling approximately 555 million pesos, or approximately $40 million, as of December 31, 2008 to contest these assessments. In February 2009, we received additional tax assessments for the tax years 2003 and 2004 in the amount of 1,097 million pesos, or approximately $74 million. Bonds for these assessments are to be provided later in 2009. These assessments contest our right to claim certain deductions. While we intend to contest these assessments vigorously, we cannot predict or provide assurance as to the ultimate outcome, which may take several years. Additional bonds will need to be provided to the extent future assessments are contested. We anticipate that the Mexican government will make additional assessments contesting similar deductions for other tax years or entities. Unionization efforts and labor regulations in certain countries in which we operate could materially increase our costs or limit our flexibility. Certain of our employees in international markets are represented by labor unions and work under collective bargaining or similar agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiation. Efforts have been made from time to time to unionize other portions of our workforce. In addition, we have been subjected to strikes or work stoppages and other labor disruptions in certain countries. Additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining agreements or work stoppages could materially increase our costs, reduce our revenues or limit our flexibility. Certain legal obligations require us to contribute certain amounts to retirement funds and pension plans and restrict our ability to dismiss employees. Future regulations or court interpretations established in the countries in which we conduct our operations could increase our costs and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. Public health threats could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our financial results. Public health threats, such as the bird flu, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and other highly communicable diseases, could adversely impact our operations, the operations of our clients and the global economy in general, including the worldwide demand for crude oil and natural gas and the level of demand for our services. Any quarantine of personnel or inability to access our offices or rigs could adversely affect our operations. Travel restrictions or operational problems in any part of the world in which we operate, or any reduction in the demand for drilling services caused by public health threats in the future, may materially impact operations and adversely affect our financial results. 22 Risk Factors About Our Proposed Spin-Off The planned spin-off of our mat-supported jackup rig business is contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, may require significant time and attention of our management and may not achieve the intended results. We have filed a Form 10 registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the distribution to our stockholders of all of the shares of common stock of a subsidiary that would hold, directly or indirectly, the assets and liabilities of our 20-rig mat-supported jackup business. The spin-off is contingent upon approval of the final plan by the board of directors, a favorable ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, the effectiveness of the Form 10 registration statement, compliance with covenants under our existing debt agreements and other conditions. For these and other reasons, the spin-off may not be completed. Additionally, execution of the proposed spin-off will likely continue to require significant time and attention of our management, which could distract management from the operation of our business and the execution of our other strategic initiatives. Further, if the spin-off is completed, it may not achieve the intended results. In connection with the spin-off of our mat-supported jackup rig business, the spin-off company will indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, the indemnity may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, and the spin-off company’s ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations may be impaired in the future. Pursuant to a separation agreement we will enter into with the spin-off company, that company will agree to indemnify us from certain liabilities after the spin-off. However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that the spin-off company has agreed to assume. In addition, the indemnity may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and the spin-off company may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations to us. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from the spin-off company any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. Each of these risks could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If certain internal restructuring transactions and the spin-off of our mat-supported jackup rig business are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we and our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. We anticipate that certain internal restructuring transactions will be undertaken in preparation for the spin-off of our mat-supported jackup rig business. These transactions are complex and could cause us to incur significant tax liabilities. We intend to request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that these transactions and the spin-off qualify for favorable tax treatment. In addition, we expect to obtain an opinion of tax counsel confirming the favorable tax treatment of these transactions and the spin-off. The ruling and the opinion will rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from us regarding the past and future conduct of our businesses and other matters. If any of these are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, then we and our stockholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinion and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the ruling and the opinion, the Internal Revenue Service could determine on audit that the spin-off or the internal restructuring transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or if the spin-off should become taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock ownership after the spin-off. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 