Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Related to our Business If the current downturn becomes more severe or continues for an extended period of time, it would have continued negative consequences on our operations, financial position and cash flows. Continued weakness in the homebuilding market could have an adverse effect on us. It could require that we write off more assets, dispose of assets, reduce operations, restructure our debt and/or raise new equity to pursue our business plan, any of which could have a detrimental effect on our current stakeholders. Mortgage availability and interest rate increases may make purchasing a home more difficult and may cause an increase in the number of new and existing homes available for sale. In general, housing demand is adversely affected by the unavailability of mortgage financing and increases in interest rates. Increased cancellations could increase the available homes inventory, which may reduce prices and reduce the availability of future financing for home buyers. Most of our buyers finance their home purchases through third-party lenders providing mortgage financing. If mortgage interest rates increase and, consequently, the ability of prospective buyers to finance home purchases is adversely affected, home sales, gross margins and cash flow may also be adversely affected and the impact may be material. Long-term interest rates currently remain at low levels; however, rates have generally increased during the last couple of years from historically low levels and it is impossible to predict future increases or decreases in market interest rates. Homebuilding activities depend, in part, upon the availability and costs of mortgage financing for buyers of homes owned by potential customers, as those customers (move-up buyers) often must sell their residences before they purchase our homes. Mortgage lenders have recently become subject to more intense underwriting standards by the regulatory authorities which oversee them as a consequence of the sub-prime mortgage market failures. More stringent underwriting standards could have a material adverse effect on our business if certain buyers are unable to obtain mortgage financing. If home prices continue to decline, potential buyers may not be able to sell their homes, which may negatively impact our sales. 10 As a participant in the homebuilding industry, we are subject to market forces beyond our control. In general, housing demand is impacted by the affordability of housing. Many homebuyers need to sell their existing homes in order to purchase a new home from us, and a weakening of the home resale market or a decrease or leveling in home sale prices could adversely affect that ability. A continued decline in home prices would have an adverse effect on our homebuilding business margins and cash flows. Continued high cancellation rates may negatively impact our business. Our backlog reflects the number and value of homes for which we have entered into a sales contract with a customer but have not yet delivered the home. Although these sales contracts typically require a cash deposit and do not make the sale contingent on the sale of the customer’s existing home, in some cases a customer may cancel the contract and receive a complete or partial refund of the deposit as a result of local laws or as a matter of our business practices. If home prices decline, interest rates increase, or if the national or local homebuilding economic decline does not abate, homebuyers may have an incentive to cancel their contracts with us, even where they might be entitled to no refund or only a partial refund. Significant cancellations have had, and could have, a material adverse effect on our business as a result of lost sales revenue and the accumulation of unsold housing inventory. The value of our real estate inventory may continue to decline, leading to additional impairments and reduced profitability. Some of our owned land was purchased at prices that reflected the strong homebuilding and real estate markets of the past several years. As such, in most of these circumstances, we wrote down the value of certain inventory during 2006 and 2007 to reflect current market conditions or have abandoned such projects. To the extent that we still own or have options/purchase agreements related to such land parcels, the continued decline in the homebuilding market may require us to re-evaluate the value of our land holdings and we could incur additional impairment charges, which would decrease both the book value of our assets and stockholders’ equity. We also incur various land development improvement costs for a community prior to the commencement of home construction. Such costs include infrastructure, utilities, taxes and other related expenses. Reductions in home absorption rates increases the associated holding costs and our time to recover such costs. Continued declines in the homebuilding market may also require us to evaluate the recoverability of these costs. Reduced levels of sales may impair our ability to recover pre-acquisition costs and may cause further impairment charges. We extensively use options to acquire land. Such options generally require a cash deposit that will be forfeited if we do not exercise the option. During 2006 and 2007, we forfeited deposits and wrote off related pre-acquisition costs related to projects we no longer deemed feasible, as they were not generating acceptable returns. A continued downturn in the homebuilding market may cause us to re-evaluate the feasibility of other optioned projects, which may result in additional writedowns that would reduce our assets and stockholders’ equity. Our joint ventures with independent third parties may be illiquid, and we may be adversely impacted by our joint venture partners’ failure to fulfill their obligations. We participate in several land acquisition and development joint ventures with independent third parties, in which we have less than a controlling interest. Our participation in these types of joint ventures has increased over the last few years and we expect to continue to use joint ventures in the foreseeable future, although during 2007, due to current market conditions and the reduced need for lots, we have reduced our involvement in such ventures. These joint ventures provide us with a means of accessing larger parcels and lot positions and help us expand our marketing opportunities and manage our risk profile. However, these joint ventures often acquire parcels of raw land without entitlements and as such are subject to a number of development risks that our business does not face directly. These risks include the risk that anticipated projects could be delayed or terminated because applicable governmental approvals cannot be obtained at reasonable costs, if at all. In addition, the risk of construction and development cost overruns can be greater for a joint venture where it acquires raw land compared to our typical acquisition of entitled lots. These increased development and entitlement risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations if one or more joint venture projects is delayed, cancelled or terminated or we are required, whether contractually or for business reasons, to invest additional funds in the joint venture to facilitate the success of a particular project. 11 Our joint venture investments are generally very illiquid both because we lack a controlling interest in the ventures and because most of our joint ventures are structured to require super-majority or unanimous approval of the members to sell a substantial portion of the joint venture’s assets or for a member to receive a return of their invested capital. Our lack of a controlling interest also results in the risk that the joint venture will take actions that we disagree with, or fail to take actions that we desire, including actions regarding the sale of the underlying property. In the ordinary course of our business, we obtain letters of credit and performance, maintenance and other bonds in support of our related obligations with respect to the development of our projects. In limited cases, we may also offer pro-rata limited repayment guarantees on our portion of the venture debt or other debt repayment guarantees that are only triggered if the joint venture files for voluntary bankruptcy or similar liquidation or reorganization actions (“bad boy” guarantees). Our limited repayment and bad boy guarantees were $34.2 million and $88.2 million as of December 31, 2007, respectively. With respect to our joint ventures, we and our joint venture partners may be obligated to complete land development improvements if the joint venture does not perform the required development, which could require significant expenditures. In addition, we and our joint venture partners sometimes agree to indemnify third party surety providers with respect to performance bonds issued on behalf of certain of our joint ventures. In the event the letters of credit or bonds are drawn upon, we, and in the case of a joint venture, our joint venture partners, would be obligated to reimburse the surety or other issuer of the letter of credit or bond if the obligations the bond or guarantee secures are not performed by us (or the joint venture). If one or more bonds, letters of credit or other guarantees were drawn upon or otherwise invoked, our obligations could be significant, individually or in the aggregate, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. We cannot guarantee that such events will not occur or that such obligations will not be invoked. If we are unable to successfully compete in the highly competitive homebuilding industry, our financial results and growth may suffer. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete for sales in each of our markets with national, regional and local developers and homebuilders, existing home resales and, to a lesser extent, condominiums and available rental housing. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources or lower costs than we do. Competition among both small and large residential homebuilders is based on a number of interrelated factors, including location, reputation, amenities, design, quality and price. Competition is expected to continue and become more intense, and there may be new entrants in the markets in which we currently operate and in markets we may enter in the future. If we are unable to successfully compete, our financial results and growth could suffer. We face reduced coverage and increased cost of insurance. Recently, lawsuits have been filed against builders asserting claims of personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential dwellings. Some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements. We believe that we have maintained adequate insurance coverage to insure against these types of claims for homes completed before October 1, 2003. As of October 1, 2003, our insurance policy began excluding mold coverage. If our reserves are not sufficient to protect against these types of claims or if we are unable to obtain adequate insurance coverage, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could result if we are exposed to claims arising from the presence of mold in the homes that we build. We are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business, which may lead to additional reserves or expenses. Construction defect and home warranty claims are common in the homebuilding industry and can be costly. While we maintain general liability insurance and generally require our subcontractors and design professionals to indemnify us for liabilities arising from their work, we cannot assure that these insurance rights and indemnities will be adequate to cover all construction defect and warranty claims for which we may be held liable. For example, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions, which have increased recently, and certain claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. Our income tax provision and other tax liabilities may be insufficient if taxing authorities are successful in asserting tax positions that are contrary to our position. Additionally, continued loss from operations in future reporting periods may require us to adjust the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. In the normal course of business, we are audited by various federal, state and local authorities regarding income tax matters. Significant judgment is required to determine our provision for income taxes and our liabilities for federal, state, local and other taxes. Our audits are in various stages of completion; however, no outcome for a particular audit can be determined with certainty prior to the conclusion of the audit, appeal and, in some cases, litigation process. Although we 12 believe our approach to determining the appropriate tax treatment is supportable and in accordance with relevant accounting literature, it is possible that the final tax authority will take a tax position that is materially different than ours. As each audit is conducted, adjustments, if any, are appropriately recorded in our consolidated financial statements in the period determined. Such differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision or benefit, or other tax reserves, in the reporting period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows for such period. Our deferred tax assets should be reduced by a valuation allowance, if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more-likely-than-not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In determining the more-likely-than-not criterion, we evaluate all positive and negative evidence as of the end of each reporting period. Future adjustments, either increases or decreases, to our deferred tax asset valuation allowance will be determined based upon changes in the expected realization of our net deferred tax assets. The realization of our deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in either the carryback or carryforward periods under the tax law. Due to significant estimates utilized in establishing the valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, it is reasonably possible that we will be required to record adjustments to the valuation allowance in future reporting periods. Our results of operations would be impacted negatively if we determine that increases to our deferred tax asset valuation allowance are required in a future reporting period. As a participant in the homebuilding industry, we are subject to its fluctuating cycles and other risks that can adversely impact the demand for, cost of and pricing of our homes. The homebuilding industry is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in economic and other conditions such as employment levels, availability of financing, interest rates, and consumer confidence. These factors can negatively affect demand for and cost of our homes. We are also subject to various risks, many of which are outside of our control, including delays in construction schedules, cost overruns, changes in governmental regulations (such as “no-growth” or “slow-growth” initiatives), availability of land, availability of land option financing, increases in inventories of new and existing homes, increases in real estate taxes and other local government fees, and raw materials and labor costs. We are also subject to the potential for significant variability and fluctuations in the cost and availability of real estate. Although historically we have generally developed parcels ranging from 100 to 300 lots, in order to achieve and maintain an adequate inventory of lots, we have, in recent years, acquired larger parcels with joint venture partners. Impairments of our real estate and write-offs of purchase and option contract deposits and pre-acquisition costs, including costs related to our joint ventures, were recorded during 2007, and if market conditions continue to deteriorate such impairments and write-offs may again be required in the future. The loss of key personnel may negatively impact us. Our success largely depends on the continuing services of certain key employees, including our Chief Executive Officer, Steven J. Hilton, and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. We have an employment agreement with Mr. Hilton but we do not have employment agreements with certain other key employees. We believe that Mr. Hilton possesses valuable industry knowledge, experience and leadership abilities that would be difficult in the short term to replicate. In addition, Mr. Hilton has cultivated key contacts and relationships with important participants in the land acquisition process in our various markets across the country. The loss of the services of Mr. Hilton and other key employees could harm our operations and business plans. Shortages in the availability of sub-contract labor may delay construction schedules and increase our costs. We conduct our construction operations only as a general contractor. Virtually all architectural, construction and development work is performed by unaffiliated third-party subcontractors. As a consequence, we depend on the continued availability of and satisfactory performance by these subcontractors for the design and construction of our homes. We cannot assure you that there will be sufficient availability of and satisfactory performance by these unaffiliated third-party subcontractors. In addition, inadequate subcontractor resources could have a material adverse affect on our business. 13 Our lack of geographic diversification could adversely affect us if the homebuilding industry in our market declines. We have operations in Texas, Arizona, California, Nevada, Colorado and Florida. Our limited geographic diversification could adversely impact us if the homebuilding business in our current markets should decline, since there may not be a balancing opportunity in a stronger market in other geographic regions. Our future operations may be adversely impacted by high inflation. We, like other homebuilders, may be adversely affected during periods of high inflation, mainly by higher land and construction costs. Also, higher mortgage interest rates may significantly affect the affordability of mortgage financing to prospective buyers. Inflation increases our cost of financing, materials and labor and could cause our financial results or growth to decline. We attempt to pass cost increases on to our customers through higher sales prices. Although inflation has not historically had a material adverse effect on our business, recently the cost of some of the materials we use to construct our homes has increased. Sustained increases in material costs would have a material adverse effect on our business if we are unable to increase home sale prices. We experience fluctuations and variability in our operating results on a quarterly basis and, as a result, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. We historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in home sales and results of operation on a quarterly basis. As a result of such variability, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results. Factors that contribute to this variability include: · timing of home deliveries and land sales; · delays in construction schedules due to strikes, adverse weather, acts of God, reduced subcontractor availability and governmental restrictions; · our ability to acquire additional land or options for additional land on acceptable terms; · conditions of the real estate market in areas where we operate and of the general economy; · the cyclical nature of the homebuilding industry, changes in prevailing interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing; and · costs and availability of materials and labor. Our substantial level of indebtedness may adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. The homebuilding industry is capital intensive and requires significant up-front expenditures to secure land and begin development and construction. Accordingly, we incur substantial indebtedness to finance our homebuilding activities. At December 31, 2007, we had approximately $729.9 million of indebtedness and other borrowings. If we require working capital greater than that provided by operations or available under our Credit Facility, we may be required to seek additional capital in the form of equity or debt financing from a variety of potential sources, including bank financing and securities offerings. There can be no assurance we would be able to obtain such additional capital on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences to our stockholders, including the following: · our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; · we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness, which reduces the funds available to us for other purposes such as capital expenditures; · we have a higher level of indebtedness than some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in our industry, including increased competition; and 14 · we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business than some of our competitors. We expect to generate cash flow to pay our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness from cash flow from operations. Our ability to meet our expenses thus depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets where we operate and pressure from competitors. We cannot be certain that our cash flow will be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If we do not have sufficient funds, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets or borrow additional funds. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from pursuing any of these alternatives. Our financial leverage may place burdens on our ability to comply with the terms of our debt and may restrict our ability to complete certain transactions. The indentures for our senior and subordinated notes and the agreement for our Credit Facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries, among other things, to: · incur additional indebtedness or liens; · pay dividends or make other distributions; · repurchase our stock; · make investments (including investments in joint ventures); or · consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, the indentures for our 7.0% senior notes and the agreement for our Credit Facility require us to maintain a minimum consolidated tangible net worth and our Credit Facility requires us to maintain other specified financial ratios, including the amount and types of land, speculative housing and model homes that we may own at any given time. We cannot assure you that these covenants will not adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to pursue available business opportunities. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to maintain the required financial ratios could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the affected lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. We may need to amend our existing debt instruments or raise new equity in order to fund our future operations. Although we recently amended our senior unsecured credit facility (our “Credit Facility”) to give us more operational flexibility with respect to our debt covenants, if market conditions continue to deteriorate or continue for a significant period, we may be unable to comply with these covenants and may need to seek further amendments, waivers or forbearance, in respect of our Credit Facility, or may need to refinance the facility. We may also need to raise new equity to fund our business plan. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any amendments, waivers or forbearance when, as and if needed, nor can there be any assurance that we would be able to raise new equity or find new lenders willing to refinance on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Any amended facilities could be on terms that are both more expensive and more restrictive than our current facility. We may also seek to increase our equity through the issuance of additional equity. Any issuance would dilute the interests of current stockholders, which could adversely affect our stock price. We may not be successful in integrating prior or future acquisitions. We may continue to consider growth or expansion of our operations in our current markets or in other areas of the country. Our expansion into new or existing markets could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and/or profitability. The magnitude, timing and nature of any future expansion will depend on a number of factors, including suitable acquisition candidates, the negotiation of acceptable terms, our financial capabilities and general economic and business conditions. New acquisitions may result in the incurrence of additional debt. Acquisitions also involve numerous 15 risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired company’s operations, the incurrence of unanticipated liabilities or expenses, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no direct experience and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. Our expansion into Reno and our acquisition of Colonial Homes in Ft. Myers were not successful due to the dramatic downturn in the homebuilding industry, and we are currently winding down operations in these markets. We are subject to extensive government regulations that could cause us to incur significant liabilities or restrict our business activities. Regulatory requirements could cause us to incur significant liabilities and costs and could restrict our business activities. We are subject to local, state and federal statutes and rules regulating certain developmental matters, as well as building and site design. We are subject to various fees and charges of government authorities designed to defray the cost of providing certain governmental services and improvements. We may be subject to additional costs and delays or may be precluded entirely from building projects because of “no-growth” or “slow-growth” initiatives, building permit ordinances, building moratoriums, or similar government regulations that could be imposed in the future due to health, safety, welfare or environmental concerns. We must also obtain licenses, permits and approvals from government agencies to engage in certain activities, the granting or receipt of which are beyond our control and could cause delays in our homebuilding projects. We are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. Environmental laws or permit restrictions may result in project delays, may cause substantial compliance and other costs and may prohibit or severely restrict development in certain environmentally sensitive regions or geographic areas. Environmental regulations can also have an adverse impact on the availability and price of certain raw materials, such as lumber. Acts of war may seriously harm our business. Acts of war or any outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the United States and any foreign power, including the conflict with Iraq, may cause disruption to the economy, our company, our employees and our customers, which could impact our revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition. Our business may be negatively impacted by natural disasters. We have homebuilding operations in Texas, California and Florida. Some of our markets in Texas and Florida occasionally experience extreme weather conditions such as tornadoes and/or hurricanes. California has experienced a significant number of earthquakes, wildfires, flooding, landslides and other natural disasters in recent years. We do not insure against some of these risks. These occurrences could damage or destroy some of our homes under construction or our building lots, which may result in losses that exceed our insurance coverage. We could also suffer significant construction delays or substantial fluctuations in the pricing or availability of building materials. Any of these events could cause a decrease in our revenue, cash flows and earnings. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Securities Our issuance of equity could result in a lowering of our stock price. To finance our business or future expansion, we may issue additional shares of common stock. The potential future issuance of additional shares could result in a lower price for our common stock. We may also seek to issue a different class of stock, if allowed, which could further dilute the common stockholders’ interests in our company. Our charter and bylaws and ownership structure could prevent a third party from acquiring us or limit the price investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock. Existing provisions of our charter and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger with or acquisition of us, even where the stockholders may consider it to be favorable, and could also prevent or hinder an attempt by stockholders to replace our directors. They include: (i) a classified board of directors; (ii) a provision that directors may only be removed for cause; (iii) a limitation on the maximum number of directors; (iv) a limitation on the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; (v) a provision that only the directors can amend the bylaws; and (vi) advance notice 16 requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at a stockholders meeting. We are subject to the Maryland Business Combination Act. The Maryland Business Combination Act restricts the ability of Maryland corporations to enter into certain business combination transactions with 10% or more stockholders without prior board of director approval of such status, for a period of five years. Our stock price is volatile and could decline substantially. The stock market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In addition, our common stock has recently been subject to extreme price fluctuations. Over the course of the last fiscal year, the price of our common stock has ranged from $12.00 to $47.73 per share. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to many factors including: · our operating results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in a particular period; · write-offs of our assets, including our deferred tax assets; · changes in analysts’ recommendation and projections; · changes in general valuations for homebuilding companies; · material announcements by us or our competitors; · the market’s perception of our prospects and the prospects of the homebuilding industry in general; · changes in general market conditions or economic trends, such as increasing interest rates; and · broad market fluctuations. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on your investment in our common stock and our common stock may trade at prices significantly below the offering price. As a result, you could lose some or all of your investment. Special Note of Caution Regarding Forward-Looking Statements In passing the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (“PSLRA”), Congress encouraged public companies to make “forward-looking statements” by creating a safe-harbor to protect companies from securities law liability in connection with forward-looking statements. We intend to qualify both our written and oral forward-looking statements for protection under the PSLRA. The words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “forecast,” “plan,” “estimate,” and “project” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date the statement was made. All statements we make other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements within the meaning of that term in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report include statements concerning our belief that we are positioned, and that we will be able, to capitalize on opportunities when the market stabilizes; our belief that buyers will defer purchasing decisions until prices stabilize; our belief that cancellations will stabilize as prices and inventory stabilize; our plans or goals for unsold homes inventory reduction, lot supply reduction, generating positive cash flow and using it for debt reduction, as well as management’s intention to operate conservatively, strengthen the balance sheet and improve liquidity to take advantage of future opportunities; management estimates regarding future impairments and joint venture exposure, including actions that we may pursue or that may result from defaults of indebtedness of certain joint ventures, whether certain guarantees relating to our joint ventures will be triggered and our belief that reimbursements due from lenders to our joint ventures will be repaid; expectations regarding our industry and our business in 2008; the significance of buyer confidence, home prices and sales, and a decrease in cancellations signaling a turnaround in the market; the demand for and the pricing of our homes; the growth potential of the markets we operate in; our land and lot acquisition strategy and our belief that we have land in desirable locations; demographic and other trends related to the homebuilding industry in general and our ability to capitalize on these trends; the future supply of housing inventory in our markets and the homebuilding industry in general; our expectation that existing letters of credit and performance and 17 surety bonds will not be drawn on; the adequacy of our insurance coverage and warranty reserves; our ability to deliver existing backlog; the expected outcome of legal proceedings against us; the sufficiency of our capital resources to support our business strategy; our ability and willingness to acquire land under option or contract; the future impact of deferred tax assets or liabilities; the impact of new accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting estimates; our belief that sales prices, sales orders and gross margins may continue to decrease and that inventories may increase; our future cash needs; the viability of certain large land parcels we own or control; our future compliance with debt covenants and actions we may take with respect thereto; and actions we may take to amend our debt and/or raise equity capital and the availability of such capital on terms acceptable to us. Important factors currently known to management that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements, and that could negatively affect our business are discussed in this report under the heading “Risk Factors.” Forward-looking statements express expectations of future events. All forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain as they are based on various expectations and assumptions concerning future events and they are subject to numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those projected. Due to these inherent uncertainties, the investment community is urged not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. In addition, we undertake no obligations to update or revise forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes to projections over time. As a result of these and other factors, our stock and note prices may fluctuate dramatically. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 