ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors About Our Business A material or extended decline in expenditures by oil and natural gas companies due to a decline or volatility in crude oil and natural gas prices, a decrease in demand for crude oil and natural gas or other factors may reduce demand for our services and substantially reduce our profitability or result in our incurring losses. The profitability of our operations depends upon conditions in the oil and natural gas industry and, specifically, the level of exploration, development and production activity by oil and natural gas companies. Crude oil and natural gas prices and market expectations regarding potential changes in these prices significantly affect this level of activity. However, higher commodity prices do not necessarily translate into increased drilling activity because our customers’ expectations of future commodity prices typically drive demand for our rigs. Crude oil and natural gas prices are volatile. Commodity prices are directly influenced by many factors beyond our control, including: • the demand for crude oil and natural gas; • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering crude oil and natural gas; • expectations regarding future energy prices; • advances in exploration, development and production technology; • government regulations; • local and international political, economic and weather conditions; • the ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and prices; • the level of production in non-OPEC countries; • domestic and foreign tax policies; • the development and exploitation of alternative fuels; • the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and natural gas reserves; • acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere; and • the worldwide military and political environment and uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in the Middle East and other oil and natural gas producing regions. 11 Table of Contents While recent economic trends have stabilized, continued effects of the economic recession could lead to a decline in demand for crude oil and natural gas. Further slowdowns in economic activity would likely reduce worldwide demand for energy and result in an extended period of lower crude oil and natural gas prices. Any prolonged reduction in crude oil and natural gas prices will depress the levels of exploration, development and production activity. In addition, continued hostilities in the Middle East and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks against the United States or other countries could further the downturn in the economies of the United States and those of other countries. Moreover, even during periods of high commodity prices, customers may cancel or curtail their drilling programs, or reduce their levels of capital expenditures for exploration and production for a variety of reasons, including their lack of success in exploration efforts. These factors could cause our revenues and margins to decline, decrease daily rates and utilization of our rigs and limit our future growth prospects. Any significant decrease in daily rates or utilization of our rigs, particularly our high-specification drillships or semisubmersible rigs, could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. In addition, these risks could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets and make it more difficult for us to access capital and to obtain insurance coverages that we consider adequate or are otherwise required by our contracts. Our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate some of our drilling contracts during periods of depressed market conditions, due to government actions or if we experience downtime, operational difficulties, or safety-related issues. Currently, our contracts with customers are dayrate contracts, where we charge a fixed charge per day regardless of the number of days needed to drill the well. During depressed market conditions, a customer may no longer need a rig that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable rig at a lower daily rate. Further, due to government actions, a customer may no longer be able to operate in, or it may not be economical to operate in, certain regions. As a result, customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing drilling contracts or avoid their obligations under those contracts. In addition, our customers may have the right to terminate, or may seek to renegotiate, existing contracts if we experience downtime or operational problems above the contractual limit or safety-related issues, if the rig is a total loss, if the rig is not delivered to the customer or, in certain circumstances, does not pass acceptance testing within the period specified in the contract or in other specified circumstances, which include events beyond the control of either party. Some of our contracts with our customers include terms allowing them to terminate contracts without cause, with little or no prior notice and with minimal penalty or early termination payments. In addition, we could be required to pay penalties, which could be material, if some of our contracts with our customers are terminated due to downtime, operational problems or failure to deliver. Some of our other contracts with customers may be cancelable at the option of the customer upon payment of a termination fee, which may not fully compensate us for the loss of the contract. In addition, a customer that is the subject of a bankruptcy filing may elect to reject its drilling contract. Early termination of a contract may result in a rig being idle for an extended period of time. The likelihood that a customer may seek to terminate a contract is increased during periods of market weakness. If our customers cancel some of our significant contracts and we are unable to secure new contracts on substantially similar terms, or at all, our revenues and profitability could be materially reduced. The Macondo well incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico in April 2010 and its consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Macondo well incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico in April 2010 and its consequences, including actions taken, or that may be taken, by the U.S. government, other governments or our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Recent Developments — Drillships Construction Projects”, “— Recent Developments — Recently Delivered Drillships” and “— Recent Developments — U.S. Gulf of Mexico” in Item 7 of this annual report. Rig upgrade, refurbishment, repair and construction projects are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse impact on our available cash resources and results of operations. We have expended, and will continue to expend, significant amounts of capital to complete our drillship construction projects. Depending on available opportunities, we may construct additional rigs for our fleet in the future. In addition, we make significant upgrade, refurbishment and repair expenditures for our fleet from time to time, particularly in light of the age of some of our rigs. Some of these expenditures are unplanned. In 2011, we expect to spend approximately $800 million with respect to our drillship construction projects, and an additional approximately $265 million with respect to the refurbishment and upgrade of other rigs. 12 Table of Contents All of these projects are subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns, including costs or delays resulting from the following: • unexpectedly long delivery times for or shortages of key equipment, parts and materials; • shortages of skilled labor and other shipyard personnel necessary to perform the work; • failure or delay of third-party equipment vendors or service providers; • unforeseen increases in the cost of equipment, labor and raw materials, particularly steel; • unforeseen design or engineering problems, including those relating to the commissioning of newly designed equipment; • political, social and economic instability, war and civil disturbances; • unanticipated change orders; • client acceptance delays; • disputes with shipyards and suppliers; • work stoppages and other labor disputes; • latent damages or deterioration to hull, equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions; • financial or other difficulties at shipyards and suppliers; • adverse weather conditions; and • inability to obtain required permits or approvals. Significant cost overruns or delays could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. Some of our risks are concentrated because our two drillships currently under construction are located at one shipyard in South Korea. Delays in the delivery of rigs being constructed or undergoing upgrade, refurbishment or repair may, in many cases, result in delay in contract commencement, resulting in a loss of revenue to us, and may also cause our customer to renegotiate the drilling contract for the rig or terminate or shorten the term of the contract under applicable late delivery clauses. In the event of termination of one of these contracts, we may not be able to secure a replacement contract on as favorable terms, if at all. Additionally, capital expenditures for rig upgrade, refurbishment and construction projects could materially exceed our planned capital expenditures. Moreover, our rigs undergoing upgrade, refurbishment and repair may not earn a dayrate during the period they are out of service. An oversupply of comparable or higher specification rigs in the markets in which we compete could depress the demand and contract prices for our rigs and materially reduce our revenues and profitability. Contract prices customers pay for our rigs also are affected by the total supply of comparable rigs available for service in the markets in which we compete. During prior periods of high utilization and dayrates, industry participants have increased the supply of rigs by ordering the construction of new units. This has often created an oversupply of drilling units and has caused a decline in utilization and dayrates when the rigs enter the market, sometimes for extended periods of time as these rigs are absorbed into the active fleet. Since 2007, 88 jackup rigs have been added to the global fleet, with another 47 expected to be added in 2011 and 2013. Most of these units are cantilevered units and are considered to be of a higher specification than other types of jackup rigs, because they generally are larger, have greater deckloads and have water depth ratings of 300 feet or greater. In the deepwater sector, 21 drillships and 36 new semi-submersible rigs entered the market from 2007 through 2010, and there have been announcements of approximately 54 new semisubmersible rigs and drillships with delivery forecasted to occur from 2011 through 2014, including our two remaining drillship construction projects. A number of the contracts for units currently under construction provide for options for the construction of additional units, and further new construction announcements may occur for all classes of rigs pursuant to the exercise of one or more of these options and otherwise. Not all of the rigs currently under construction have been contracted for future work, which may intensify price competition as scheduled delivery dates occur. In addition, our and our competitors’ rigs that are “stacked” (i.e., minimally crewed with little or no scheduled maintenance being performed) may re-enter the market. The entry into service of newly constructed, upgraded or reactivated units will increase marketed supply and could reduce, or curtail a strengthening of, dayrates in the affected markets as rigs are absorbed into the active fleet. Any further increase in construction of new drilling units may negatively affect utilization and dayrates. In addition, projects increasingly are using enhanced development technologies, resulting in the construction of more complex well bores. This could require us to make material additional capital investments to our fleet in order to stay competitive and address changing customer needs. 13 Table of Contents Our industry is highly competitive and cyclical, with intense price competition. Our industry is highly competitive. Our contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Pricing, safety records and competency are key factors in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. Rig availability, location and technical ability also can be significant factors in the determination. Some of our competitors in the drilling industry are larger than we are and have more diverse fleets, or fleets with generally higher specifications, and greater resources than we have. Some of these competitors also are incorporated in tax-haven countries outside the United States, which provides them with significant tax advantages that are not available to us as a U.S. company and which may materially impair our ability to compete with them for many projects that would be beneficial to our company. In addition, recent consolidations within the oil and natural gas industry have reduced the number of available customers, resulting in increased competition for projects. We may not be able to maintain our competitive position, and we believe that competition for contracts will continue to be intense in the foreseeable future. Our inability to compete successfully may reduce our revenues and profitability. Historically, the offshore service industry has been highly cyclical, with periods of high demand, limited rig supply and high dayrates often followed by periods of low demand, excess rig supply and low dayrates. Periods of low demand and excess rig supply intensify the competition in the industry and often result in rigs, particularly rigs like our lower specification semisubmersible rigs and jackups, being idle for long periods of time. We may be required to stack rigs or enter into lower dayrate contracts in response to market conditions. Prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates could result in the recognition of impairment charges on certain of our rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable. Consolidation of suppliers may limit our ability to obtain supplies and services at an acceptable cost, on our schedule or at all. Our operations rely on a significant supply of capital and consumable spare parts and equipment to maintain and repair our fleet. We also rely on the supply of ancillary services, including supply boats and helicopters. Recent mergers have reduced the number of available suppliers, resulting in fewer alternatives for sourcing of key supplies and services. We may not be able to obtain supplies and services at an acceptable cost, at the times we need them or at all. These cost increases, delays or unavailability could negatively impact our future operations and result in increases in rig downtime, and delays in the repair and maintenance of our fleet. Failure to attract and retain skilled personnel or an increase in labor costs could hurt our operations. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for the skilled and other labor required for our operations intensifies as the number of rigs activated or added to worldwide fleets or under construction increases, creating upward pressure on wages. In periods of high utilization, we have found it more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. We have experienced tightening in the relevant labor markets since 2005 and continue to sustain some losses of experienced personnel to our customers and competitors. Our labor costs have increased significantly since 2005 and, while this trend moderated in 2010, shortages of certain skilled positions and in certain geographic locations continue. The shortages of qualified personnel or the inability to obtain and retain qualified personnel could negatively affect the quality, safety and timeliness of our work. In addition, our ability to crew our new drillships and to expand our deepwater operations depends in part upon our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. We have intensified our recruitment and training programs in an effort to meet our anticipated personnel needs. These efforts may be unsuccessful, and competition for skilled personnel could materially impact our business by limiting or affecting the quality and safety of our operations or further increasing our costs. 14 Table of Contents Our international operations involve additional risks not generally associated with domestic operations, which may hurt our operations materially. In 2010, we derived 94% of our revenues from countries outside the United States, including 51% from Brazil and 22% from Angola. Our operations in these areas are subject to the following risks, among others: • political, social and economic instability, war and civil disturbances; • seizure, expropriation or nationalization of assets or confiscatory taxation; • significant governmental influence over many aspects of local economies; • unexpected changes in law and regulatory requirements, including changes in interpretation or enforcement of existing laws; • restrictions on currency or capital repatriation; • work stoppages; • foreign currency fluctuations and devaluations; • damage to our equipment or violence directed at our employees, including kidnappings; • complications associated with repairing and replacing equipment in remote locations; • repudiation, nullification, modification or renegotiation of contracts; • limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk coverage, in certain areas; • piracy; • solicitation by governmental officials for improper payments or other forms of corruption; • imposition of trade barriers; • wage and price controls; • import-export quotas; • uncertainty or instability resulting from hostilities or other crises in the Middle East, West Africa, Latin America or other geographic areas in which we operate; • acts of terrorism; and • other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control. Some of our risks are concentrated because of our substantial operations in Brazil and Angola. We may experience currency exchange losses where revenues are received or expenses are paid in nonconvertible currencies or where we do not take protective measures against exposure to a foreign currency. We may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. We attempt to limit the risks of currency fluctuation and restrictions on currency repatriation where possible by obtaining contracts providing for payment in U.S. dollars or freely convertible foreign currency. To the extent possible, we seek to limit our exposure to local currencies by matching the acceptance of local currencies to our expense requirements in those currencies. Although we have done this in the past, we may not be able to take these actions in the future, thereby exposing us to foreign currency fluctuations that could cause our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows to deteriorate materially. 15 Table of Contents Our ability to compete in international contract drilling markets may be limited by foreign governmental regulations that favor or require the awarding of contracts to local contractors or by regulations requiring foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. Furthermore, our foreign subsidiaries may face governmentally imposed restrictions from time to time on their ability to transfer funds to us. Finally, governments in some foreign countries have become increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions and companies holding concessions, the exploration for oil and natural gas and other aspects of the oil and natural gas industries in their countries. In some areas of the world, this governmental activity has adversely affected the amount of exploration and development work done by major oil and natural gas companies and may continue to do so. Operations in less developed countries can be subject to legal systems which are not as mature or predictable as those in more developed countries, which can lead to greater uncertainty in legal matters and proceedings. The shipment of goods, services and technology across international borders subjects us to extensive trade laws and regulations. Our import activities are governed by unique customs laws and regulations in each of the countries where we operate. Moreover, many countries, including the United States, control the export and re-export of certain goods, services and technology and impose related export recordkeeping and reporting obligations. Governments also may impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons and other entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons and entities. The laws and regulations concerning import activity, export recordkeeping and reporting, export control and economic sanctions are complex and constantly changing. These laws and regulations may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner materially impacting our operations. Shipments can be delayed and denied export or entry for a variety of reasons, some of which are outside our control and some of which may result from failure to comply with existing legal and regulatory regimes. Shipping delays or denials could cause unscheduled operational downtime. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory trading obligations also could result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from government contracts, seizure of shipments and loss of import and export privileges. Although we implement and enforce policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, our employees, contractors and agents may take actions in violation of our policies and such laws. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could materially and adversely affect our business. We have resolved with the U.S. Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission our previously disclosed investigations into potential violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We cannot currently predict what, if any, actions may be taken by any other applicable government or other authorities or our customers or other third parties or the effect the actions may have. We have resolved with the U.S. Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission our previously disclosed investigations into potential violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In connection with the settlements, in the fourth quarter of 2010 we paid a total of $56.2 million in penalties, disgorgement and interest as described below. We had accrued this amount in the fourth quarter of 2009. The settlement with the DOJ included a deferred prosecution agreement (“DPA”) between us and the DOJ and a guilty plea by our French subsidiary, Pride Forasol S.A.S., to FCPA-related charges. Under the DPA, the DOJ agreed to defer the prosecution of certain FCPA-related charges against us and agreed not to bring any further criminal or civil charges against us or any of our subsidiaries related to either any of the conduct set forth in the statement of facts attached to the DPA or any other information we disclosed to the DOJ prior to the execution of the DPA. We agreed, among other things, to continue to cooperate with the DOJ, to continue to review and maintain our anti-bribery compliance program and to submit to the DOJ three annual written reports regarding our progress and experience in maintaining and, as appropriate, enhancing our compliance policies and procedures. If we comply with the terms of the DPA, the deferred charges against us will be dismissed with prejudice. If, during the term of the DPA, the DOJ determines that we have committed a felony under federal law, provided deliberately false information or otherwise breached the DPA, we could be subject to prosecution and penalties for any criminal violation of which the DOJ has knowledge, including the deferred charges. In December 2010, pursuant to a plea agreement, Pride Forasol S.A.S. pled guilty in U.S. District Court to conspiracy and FCPA charges. Pride Forasol S.A.S. was sentenced to pay a criminal fine of $32.6 million and to serve a three-year term of organizational probation. 16 Table of Contents The SEC investigation was resolved in November 2010. Without admitting or denying the allegations in a civil complaint filed by the SEC, we consented to the entry of a final judgment ordering disgorgement plus pre-judgment interest totaling $23.6 million and a permanent injunction against future violations of the FCPA. We have received preliminary inquiries from governmental authorities of certain of the countries referenced in our settlements with the DOJ and SEC. We could face additional fines, sanctions and other penalties from authorities in these and other relevant foreign jurisdictions, including prohibition of our participating in or curtailment of business operations in those jurisdictions and the seizure of rigs or other assets. At this early stage of such inquiries, we are unable to determine what, if any, legal liability may result. Our customers in those jurisdictions could seek to impose penalties or take other actions adverse to our interests. We could also face other third-party claims by directors, officers, employees, affiliates, advisors, attorneys, agents, stockholders, debt holders, or other interest holders or constituents of our company. For additional information regarding a stockholder demand letter and derivative cases with respect to these matters, please see the discussion under “— Demand Letter and Derivative Cases” in Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this annual report. In addition, disclosure of the subject matter of the investigations and settlements could adversely affect our reputation and our ability to obtain new business or retain existing business from our current clients and potential clients, to attract and retain employees and to access the capital markets. No amounts have been accrued related to any potential fines, sanctions, claims or other penalties referenced in this paragraph, which could be material individually or in the aggregate. We cannot currently predict what, if any, actions may be taken by any other applicable government or other authorities or our customers or other third parties or the effect the actions may have on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, on our consolidated financial statements or on our business in the countries at issue and other jurisdictions. In addition, in connection with the investigation, our former Chief Operating Officer resigned as an officer effective May 31, 2006 and remained in the capacity of an employee to assist us with the investigation and to be available for consultation and to answer questions relating to our business. He had agreed to retire upon the conclusion of the investigation, and his right to receive retirement benefits was subject to the determination by our board of directors that we did not have cause (as defined in his retirement agreement with us) to terminate his employment. The board of directors recently determined that we did not have requisite cause to terminate his employment and that his retirement date was December 31, 2010. If we are unable to renew or obtain new and favorable contracts for rigs whose contracts are expiring or are terminated, our revenues and profitability could be materially reduced. We have a number of contracts that will expire in 2011. Our ability to renew these contracts or obtain new contracts and the terms of any such contracts will depend on market conditions. We may be unable to renew our expiring contracts or obtain new contracts for the rigs under contracts that have expired or been terminated, and the dayrates under any new contracts may be substantially below the existing dayrates, which could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. Failure to secure drilling contracts prior to deployment of our uncontracted drillships under construction or any other rigs we may construct in the future prior to their deployment could adversely affect our future results of operations. Neither of our two drillships currently under construction have long-term drilling contracts. One of the two uncontracted drillships is scheduled for delivery in the fourth quarter of 2011 and the other is scheduled for delivery in mid-2013. In addition, we may commence the construction of additional rigs for our fleet from time to time without first obtaining a drilling contract covering any such rig. Our failure to secure drilling contracts for rigs under construction, including our remaining uncontracted drillship construction projects, prior to deployment could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Many of our contracts with our customers for our offshore rigs are long-term dayrate contracts. Increases in our costs, which are unpredictable and fluctuate based on events outside our control, could adversely impact our profitability. In periods of rising demand for offshore rigs, a drilling contractor generally would prefer to enter into well-to-well or other shorter term contracts that would allow the contractor to profit from increasing dayrates, while customers with reasonably definite drilling programs would typically prefer longer term contracts in order to maintain dayrates at a consistent level. Conversely, in periods of decreasing demand for offshore rigs, a drilling contractor generally would prefer longer term contracts to preserve dayrates and utilization, while customers generally would prefer well-to-well or other shorter term contracts that would allow the customer to benefit from the decreasing dayrates. In 2010, a majority of our revenue was derived from long-term dayrate contracts, and substantially all of our backlog as of December 31, 2010 was attributable to long-term dayrate contracts. As a result, our inability to fully benefit from increasing dayrates in an improving market may limit our profitability. In general, our costs increase as the business environment for drilling services improves and demand for oilfield equipment and skilled labor increases. While many of our contracts include cost adjustment provisions that allow changes to our dayrate based on stipulated cost increases or decreases, the timing and amount earned from these dayrate adjustments may differ from our actual increase in costs. Additionally, if our rigs incur idle time between contracts, we typically do not remove personnel from those rigs because we will use the crew to prepare the rig for its next contract. During times of reduced activity, reductions in costs may not be immediate as portions of the crew may be required to prepare our rigs for stacking, after which time the crew members are assigned to active rigs or dismissed. Moreover, as our rigs are mobilized from one geographic location to another, the labor and other operating and maintenance costs can vary significantly. In general, labor costs increase primarily due to higher salary levels and inflation. Equipment maintenance expenses fluctuate depending upon the type of activity the unit is performing and the age and condition of the equipment. Contract preparation expenses vary based on the scope and length of contract preparation required and the duration of the firm contractual period over which such expenditures are amortized. Our current backlog of contract drilling revenue may not be ultimately realized. As of December 31, 2010, our contract drilling backlog was approximately $6.4 billion for future revenues under firm commitments. We may not be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond our control, and our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate our contracts for various reasons, including those described above. Our inability or the inability of our customers to perform under our or their contractual obligations may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our jackup rigs and some of our lower specification semisubmersible rigs are at a relative disadvantage to higher specification jackup and semisubmersible rigs. These higher specification rigs may be more likely to obtain contracts than our lower specification rigs, particularly during market downturns. Some of our competitors have jackup fleets with generally higher specification rigs than those in our jackup fleet, and our fleet includes a number of older and/or lower specification semisubmersible rigs. In addition, the announced delivery between 2011 and 2014 of approximately 101 new rigs includes jackup rigs, semisubmersible rigs and deepwater drillships. Particularly during market downturns when there is decreased rig demand, higher specification rigs may be more likely to obtain contracts than lower specification rigs. Some of our significant customers may also begin to require higher specification rigs for the types of projects that currently utilize our lower specification rigs, which could materially affect their utilization. Our lower specification rigs may be stacked earlier in the cycle as a result of decreased rig demand than many of our competitors’ higher specification rigs and may be reactivated later in the cycle, which could adversely impact our business. In addition, higher specification rigs may be more adaptable to different operating conditions and have greater flexibility to move to areas of demand in response to changes in market conditions. Furthermore, in recent years, an increasing amount of exploration and production expenditures have been concentrated in deeper water drilling programs and deeper formations, including deep natural gas prospects, requiring higher specification rigs. This trend is expected to continue and could result in a material decline in demand for the lower specification rigs in our fleet. We rely heavily on a small number of customers. The loss of a significant customer could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Our contract drilling business is subject to the usual risks associated with having a limited number of customers for our services. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our three largest customers provided approximately 72% of our consolidated revenues. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if any of our major customers terminates its contracts with us, fails to renew its existing contracts or refuses to award new contracts to us and we are unable to enter into contracts with new customers at comparable dayrates. 18 Table of Contents Our debt levels and debt agreement restrictions may limit our liquidity and flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. As of December 31, 2010, we had $1,863.7 million in debt. This debt represented approximately 29% of our total capitalization. Our current indebtedness may have several important effects on our future operations, including: • a portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on such debt and will not be available for other purposes; • covenants contained in our debt arrangements require us to meet certain financial tests, which may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our business and may limit our ability to dispose of assets or place restrictions on the use of proceeds from such dispositions, withstand current or future economic or industry downturns and compete with others in our industry for strategic opportunities; and • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate and other purposes may be limited. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and to fund planned expenditures, including construction costs for our two remaining drillship construction projects, will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our future cash flows may be insufficient to meet all of our debt obligations and contractual commitments, and any insufficiency could negatively impact our business. To the extent we are unable to repay our indebtedness as it becomes due or at maturity with cash on hand or from other sources, we will need to refinance our debt, sell assets or repay the debt with the proceeds from equity offerings. We are subject to a number of operating hazards, including those specific to marine operations. We may not have insurance to cover all these hazards. Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the drilling industry, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, lost or stuck drill strings, equipment defects, punch throughs, craterings, fires, explosions and pollution. These hazards can cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage, which could lead to claims by third parties or customers, suspension of operations and contract terminations. Our fleet is also subject to hazards inherent in marine operations, either while on-site or during mobilization, such as capsizing, sinking, grounding, collision, damage from severe weather and marine life infestations. Our drilling contracts provide for varying levels of indemnification from our customers, including with respect to well control and subsurface risks. We also maintain insurance for personal injuries, damage to or loss of equipment and other insurance coverage for various business risks. Our insurance policies typically consist of 12-month policy periods, with the next renewal date for a substantial portion of our insurance program being June 30, 2011. Our insurance program provides coverage, to the extent not otherwise paid by the customer under the indemnification provisions of the drilling contract, for liability due to control-of-well events, liability arising from named windstorms and liability arising from third-party claims, including wrongful death and other personal injury claims by our personnel as well as claims brought on behalf of individuals who are not our employees. The program also provides coverage for certain lost revenue on some of our assets with higher dayrates. Generally, our program provides liability coverage up to $850 million, with a retention of $1 million or less. Control-of-well events generally include an unintended flow from the well that cannot be contained by using equipment on site (e.g., a blowout preventer), by increasing the weight of drilling fluid or by diverting the fluids safely into production. Our program provides coverage for third-party liability claims relating to pollution from a control-of-well event up to $600 million per occurrence, with the first $100 million of such coverage also covering re-drilling of the well and control-of-well costs. Our program also provides coverage for liability resulting from pollution originating from our rig up to $500 million per occurrence. We retain the risk for liability not indemnified by the customer in excess of our insurance coverage. In addition, our insurance program covers only sudden and accidental pollution. Our insurance program also provides coverage for physical damage to, including total loss or constructive total loss of, our rigs, generally excluding damage arising from a named windstorm in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. This coverage is based on an agreed amount for each rig, and has a $10 million annual aggregate deductible for losses that exceed a separate $10 million per occurrence deductible. We expect to purchase $110 million of named windstorm coverage for the Deep Ocean Mendocino. It is currently planned that this rig will remain in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico during the 2011 hurricane season. 19 Table of Contents Our drilling contracts provide for varying levels of indemnification from our customers and in most cases may require us to indemnify our customers. Under our drilling contracts, liability with respect to personnel and property is customarily assigned on a “knock-for-knock” basis, which means that we and our customers assume liability for our respective personnel and property. However, in certain drilling contracts we assume liability for damage to our customer’s property and other third-party property on the rig resulting from our negligence, subject to negotiated caps up to $1 million per occurrence, and in other contracts we are not indemnified by our customers for damage to their property and, accordingly, could be liable for any such damage under applicable law. In addition, our customers typically indemnify us for damage to our down-hole equipment, and in some cases our subsea equipment, generally based on replacement cost minus some level of depreciation. Our customers typically assume responsibility for and indemnify us from any loss or liability resulting from pollution or contamination, including clean-up and removal and third-party damages, arising from operations under the contract and originating below the surface of the water, including as a result of blow-outs or cratering of the well. In some drilling contracts, however, we may have liability for third-party damages resulting from such pollution or contamination caused by our gross negligence, or, in some cases, ordinary negligence, subject to negotiated caps up to $10 million per occurrence. We generally indemnify the customer for legal and financial consequences of spills of industrial waste and other liquids originating from our rigs or equipment above the surface of the water. Our contracts with Petrobras in Brazil typically provide that, in the event of any spill of petroleum, oil or other residues into the sea from our rigs, we are responsible for damages up to a capped amount not exceeding $1 million, without regard to our negligence. The above description of our insurance program and the indemnification provisions of our drilling contracts is only a summary as of the date hereof and is general in nature. Our insurance program and the terms of our drilling contracts may change in the future. In addition, the indemnification provisions of our drilling contracts may be subject to differing interpretations, and enforcement of those provisions may be limited by public policy and other considerations. We may not be able to maintain or replace our rigs as they age. The capital associated with the repair and maintenance of our fleet increases with age. We may be required to make significant expenditures to maintain or repair rigs in our fleet, particularly some of our older semisubmersible rigs and jackups. We may not be able to maintain our fleet of existing rigs to compete effectively in the market, and our financial resources may not be sufficient to enable us to make expenditures necessary for these purposes or to acquire or build replacement rigs. We may incur substantial costs associated with workforce reductions. In many of the countries in which we operate, our workforce has certain compensation and other rights arising from our various collective bargaining agreements and from statutory requirements of those countries relating to involuntary terminations. If we choose to cease operations in one of those countries or if market conditions reduce the demand for our drilling services in such a country, we could incur costs, which may be material, associated with workforce reductions. New technologies may cause our current drilling methods to become obsolete, resulting in an adverse effect on our business. The offshore contract drilling industry is subject to the introduction of new drilling techniques and services using new technologies, some of which may be subject to patent protection. As competitors and others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at substantial cost. In addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to benefit from technological advantages and implement new technologies before we can. We may not be able to implement technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. 20 Table of Contents Our customers may be unable or unwilling to indemnify us. Consistent with standard industry practice, our customers generally assume, and indemnify us against, well control and subsurface risks under dayrate contracts. These risks are those associated with the loss of control of a well, such as blowout or cratering, the cost to regain control or redrill the well and associated pollution. There can be no assurance, however, that these customers will necessarily be willing or financially able to indemnify us against all these risks. Also, we may choose not to enforce these indemnities because of the nature of our relationship with some of our larger customers. Regulation of greenhouse gases and climate change could have a negative impact on our business. Some scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases” (“GHGs”) and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. In response to such studies, the issue of climate change and the effect of GHG emissions, in particular emissions from fossil fuels, is attracting increasing attention worldwide. Legislative and regulatory measures to address concerns that emissions of GHGs are contributing to climate change are in various phases of discussions or implementation at the international, national, regional and state levels. In 2005, the Kyoto Protocol to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which establishes a binding set of emission targets for GHGs, became binding on the countries that had ratified it. International discussions are underway to develop a treaty to replace the Kyoto Protocol after its expiration in 2012. In the United States, federal legislation imposing restrictions on GHGs is under consideration. Proposed legislation has been introduced that would establish an economy-wide cap on emissions of GHGs and would require most sources of GHG emissions to obtain GHG emission “allowances” corresponding to their annual emissions. In addition, the EPA is taking steps that would result in the regulation of GHGs as pollutants under the Clean Air Act (the “CAA”). To date, the EPA has issued (i) a “Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases” final rule, effective December 29, 2009, which establishes a new comprehensive scheme requiring operators of stationary sources in the United States emitting more than established annual thresholds of carbon dioxide-equivalent GHGs to inventory and report their GHG emissions annually; (ii) an “Endangerment Finding” final rule, effective January 14, 2010, which states that current and projected concentrations of six key GHGs in the atmosphere, as well as emissions from new motor vehicles and new motor vehicle engines, threaten public health and welfare, which allowed the EPA to finalize motor vehicle GHG standards (the effect of which could reduce demand for motor fuels refined from crude oil); and (iii) a final rule, effective August 2, 2010, to address permitting of GHG emissions from stationary sources under the CAA’s Prevention of Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) and Title V programs. This final rule “tailors” the PSD and Title V programs to apply to certain stationary sources of GHG emissions in a multi-step process, with the largest sources first subject to permitting. Finally, on November 8, 2010, the EPA finalized new GHG reporting requirements for upstream petroleum and natural gas systems, which will be added to the EPA’s GHG reporting rule. Facilities containing petroleum and natural gas systems that emit 25,000 metric tons or more of CO2 equivalent per year will now be required to report annual GHG emissions to EPA, with the first report due on March 31, 2012. Because our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, existing or future laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements related to GHGs and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, could have a negative impact on our business if such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements reduce the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or otherwise result in reduced economic activity generally. In addition, such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, which may have a negative impact on our business. In addition to potential impacts on our business directly or indirectly resulting from climate-change legislation or regulations, our business also could be negatively affected by climate-change related physical changes or changes in weather patterns. An increase in severe weather patterns could result in damages to or loss of our rigs, impact our ability to conduct our operations and/or result in a disruption of our customers’ operations. 21 Table of Contents We are subject to numerous governmental laws and regulations, including those that may impose significant costs and liability on us for environmental and natural resource damages. Many aspects of our operations are affected by governmental laws and regulations that may relate directly or indirectly to the contract drilling and well servicing industries, including those requiring us to obtain and maintain specified permits or other governmental approvals and to control the discharge of oil and other contaminants into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Our operations and activities in the United States are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, including the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act and the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships. Additionally, other countries where we operate have adopted, and could in the future adopt additional, environmental laws and regulations covering the discharge of oil and other contaminants and protection of the environment that could be applicable to our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and even criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations and the issuance of injunctions that may limit or prohibit our operations. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become more stringent in recent years and may in certain circumstances impose strict liability, rendering us liable for environmental and natural resource damages without regard to negligence or fault on our part. These laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time the acts were performed. The application of these requirements, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or development drilling for oil and natural gas could materially limit future contract drilling opportunities or materially increase our costs or both. In addition, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with laws and regulations or materially increase our costs or both. Our ability to operate our rigs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico could be restricted or made more costly by government regulation. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005 and Hurricanes Gustav and Ike in 2008 caused damage to a number of rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. Rigs that were moved off location by the storms damaged platforms, pipelines, wellheads and other drilling rigs. The BOEM has issued guidelines for jackup rig fitness requirements during hurricane seasons, which are scheduled to be effective through the 2013 hurricane season. As a result of these BOEM guidelines, jackup rigs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico are required to operate with a higher air gap (the space between the water level and the bottom of the rig’s hull) during the hurricane season, effectively reducing the water depth in which they can operate. The guidelines also provide for enhanced information and data requirements from oil and natural gas companies operating properties in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. The BOEM may take other steps that could increase the cost of operations or reduce the area of operations. Implementation of the BOEM guidelines or regulations may subject us to increased costs and limit the operational capabilities of our rigs. A change in tax laws of any country in which we operate could result in a higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings. We conduct our worldwide operations through various subsidiaries. Tax laws and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation. Consequently, we are subject to changing tax laws, treaties and regulations in and between countries in which we operate, including treaties between the United States and other nations. Our income tax expense is based upon our interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various countries at the time that the expense was incurred. A change in these tax laws, treaties or regulations, including those in and involving the United States, or in the interpretation thereof, or in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, could result in a materially higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings. As required by law, we file periodic tax returns that are subject to review and examination by various revenue agencies within the jurisdictions in which we operate. We are currently contesting several tax assessments that could be material and may contest future assessments where we believe the assessments are in error. We cannot predict or provide assurance as to the ultimate outcome of existing or future tax assessments. Unionization efforts and labor regulations in certain countries in which we operate could materially increase our costs or limit our flexibility. Certain of our employees in international markets are represented by labor unions and work under collective bargaining or similar agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiation. Efforts have been made from time to time to unionize other portions of our workforce. In addition, we have been subjected to strikes or work stoppages and other labor disruptions in certain countries. Additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining agreements or work stoppages could materially increase our costs, reduce our revenues or limit our flexibility. Certain legal obligations require us to contribute certain amounts to retirement funds and pension plans and restrict our ability to dismiss employees. Future regulations or court interpretations established in the countries in which we conduct our operations could increase our costs and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. 22 Table of Contents Public health threats could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our financial results. Public health threats, such as swine flu, bird flu, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and other highly communicable diseases, could adversely impact our operations, the operations of our clients and the global economy in general, including the worldwide demand for crude oil and natural gas and the level of demand for our services. Any quarantine of personnel or inability to access our offices or rigs could adversely affect our operations. Travel restrictions or operational problems in any part of the world in which we operate, or any reduction in the demand for drilling services caused by public health threats in the future, may materially impact operations and adversely affect our financial results. Risk Factors About Our Proposed Merger with Ensco Failure to complete or delays in completing the merger could have an adverse impact on our stock price and our business. If the merger is not completed, or there are delays in completing the merger, our stock price and our business could be adversely affected and we would be subject to a number of risks, including the following: • the current trading price of our common stock may reflect a market assumption that the merger will be completed and a failure to complete or delays in completing the merger could result in a decline in the price of our common stock; • we may not realize the benefits expected from the merger, including cost savings, enhanced financial and competitive position and diversification of customer base, operating locations and assets; • we will be required to pay certain costs relating to the merger, including certain investment banking, financing, legal and accounting fees and expenses, whether or not the merger is completed, and we may be required to pay Ensco a termination fee of $260 million under certain circumstances; and • the merger agreement places certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement, and such restrictions may prevent us from making certain acquisitions or taking certain other specified actions during the pendency of the merger. There can be no assurance that these risks will not materialize, and if any of them do, they may have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The merger may cause substantial disruption to our business, cause distraction to our management and employees and present difficulties retaining employees. The merger may cause substantial disruption to our business, cause distraction to our management and employees and present difficulties retaining employees. The merger may also cause uncertainty to our customers. Matters related to the merger may require substantial commitments of time and resources and distract our management and employees from day-to-day operations. These disruptions could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, uncertainty among our employees may have an adverse effect on us. This uncertainty may impair our ability to retain or attract personnel until the merger is completed. Employee retention may be particularly challenging, as employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company. The merger agreement restricts our ability to pursue alternatives to the merger. The merger agreement contains provisions that, subject to limited fiduciary exceptions, restrict us or any of our employees from soliciting alternative acquisition proposals or offers for a competing transaction. Further, the requirement that we pay a termination fee of $260 million in specified circumstances and the requirement that we submit the adoption of the merger agreement to a vote of our stockholders even if our board of directors changes its recommendation in favor of the adoption of the merger agreement may discourage a third party that has an interest in acquiring all of or a significant part of our business from considering or proposing such acquisition, even if such party were prepared to pay higher consideration than the currently proposed merger consideration. 23 Table of Contents Risk Factors About Our Spin-Off of Seahawk Drilling Seahawk’s pending bankruptcy proceeding may result in claims against us, the reduction or elimination of amounts owed to us by Seahawk, and termination of our rights to make indemnification claims against Seahawk. In August 2009, we completed the spin-off of Seahawk, which holds the assets and liabilities that were associated with our mat-supported jackup rig business. In February 2011, Seahawk and several of its affiliates filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. In the bankruptcy filings, we were listed as Seahawk’s largest unsecured creditor with a contingent, disputed, and unliquidated claim in the amount of approximately $16 million. The debt was listed as a trade payable, subject to setoff. The Seahawk debtors filed motions to sell substantially all of their assets and to obtain debtor-in-possession financing. The purchaser in the asset sale is proposed to be Hercules Offshore, Inc. and its affiliate SD Drilling LLC, which will pay base aggregate consideration consisting of approximately $25 million in cash and 22,321,425 shares of Hercules common stock. Prior to the commencement of the bankruptcy, Seahawk indicated an intention to seek, among other things, (i) to reject its outstanding contracts with us, thereby replacing Seahawk’s future performance obligations under the contracts with general unsecured claims in the bankruptcy, (ii) to seek a judicial determination or estimation of all of our claims against Seahawk, including indemnity claims and contract damage claims, and (iii) to set off claims Seahawk alleges it is owed for spin-off transition and other matters against all amounts currently payable from Seahawk to us in respect of transition services and rig management services, and to seek to recover any positive balance after such netting. In addition, the bankruptcy laws permit a debtor in bankruptcy, under certain circumstances, to challenge pre-bankruptcy payments or transfers of the debtor’s assets if the debtor received less than reasonably equivalent value while insolvent, or if the transfers were made with the actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud a creditor, or were made while insolvent on account of a pre-existing debt that has the effect of preferring the transferee over the debtor’s other creditors during the so-called preference period. Authorized representatives of the bankruptcy estate could seek to challenge transactions effected in connection with the spin-off under the bankruptcy laws. In 2006, 2007 and 2009, Seahawk received tax assessments from the Mexican government related to the operations of certain of its subsidiaries. Pursuant to local statutory requirements, Seahawk has provided and may provide additional surety bonds, letters of credit, or other suitable collateral to contest these assessments. Pursuant to a tax support agreement between us and Seahawk, we agreed, at Seahawk’s request, to guarantee or indemnify the issuer of any such surety bonds, letters of credit, or other collateral issued for Seahawk’s account in respect of such Mexican tax assessments made prior to the spin-off date. On September 15, 2010, Seahawk requested that we provide credit support for four letters of credit issued for the appeals of four of Seahawk’s tax assessments. The amount of the request totaled approximately $48.4 million, based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2010. On October 28, 2010, we provided credit support in satisfaction of this request. Pursuant to the tax support agreement, Seahawk is required to pay us a fee based on the actual credit support provided. Seahawk’s quarterly fee payment due on December 31, 2010 was not made, which had the effect of terminating our obligation to provide further credit support under the tax support agreement. Further, on February 9, 2011, we sent a notice to Seahawk requesting that they provide cash collateral for the credit support that we previously provided on their behalf, as provided under the terms of the agreement. In connection with its bankruptcy filing, Seahawk is seeking to terminate its reimbursement obligations under the tax support agreement. If certain of Seahawk’s claims and requests were granted, the adverse effect on us could be material. We cannot currently predict what actions may be taken by the bankruptcy court or other creditors or stakeholders of Seahawk in connection with the proceeding, or the effect the actions may have on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. If certain internal restructuring transactions and the spin-off of our mat-supported jackup rig business are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we and our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Certain internal restructuring transactions were undertaken in preparation for the spin-off of our mat-supported jackup rig business in 2009. These transactions are complex and could cause us to incur significant tax liabilities. We received a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that these transactions and the spin-off qualified for favorable tax treatment. In addition, we obtained an opinion of tax counsel confirming the favorable tax treatment of these transactions and the spin-off. The ruling and the opinion rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from us regarding the past and future conduct of our businesses and other matters. If any of these are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, then we and our stockholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinion and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the ruling and the opinion, the Internal Revenue Service could determine on audit that the spin-off or the internal restructuring transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or if the spin-off should become taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock ownership after the spin-off or the proposed purchase of Seahawk’s assets in its pending bankruptcy proceeding. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 