Item 1A Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. 8 Table of Contents We have three major customers and depend on these customers for a significant portion of our revenues. Medtronic accounted for approximately 30%, 27% and 41% of sales from operations over 2006, 2005 and 2004 respectively, while two other customers accounted for approximately 17%, 16% and 16%; and 12%, 14% and 11%, respectively. We anticipate that our expected near-term future growth in sales will be tied in part to these customers’ sales of their existing products, as well as other new products incorporating our components. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in making sales to new customers, reducing our reliance on thee principal customers or developing and marketing new products. To the extent that we do not expand our customer base and product offerings, sales to Medtronic and our other key customers will continue to account for a major portion of our revenues, making us vulnerable to the risks described below. We anticipate that our concentration of business with Medtronic will approximate 34% in 2007 with two other customers making up approximately 15% and 10%, respectively. On October 11, 2002, we entered into an exclusive supply agreement with Medtronic that requires Medtronic to purchase all of its requirements for introducer kits from us for a period of five years. There are no minimum purchase obligations under the supply agreement. However, there could be a material adverse impact on sales of our products and, consequently, our financial results if Medtronic: • sales of products that incorporate our products as components decrease • does not develop new products incorporating our products as components • discontinues any of its products that incorporate our products • redesigns or changes the technical requirements for its products so that our products would not meet those requirements • limits or discontinues its purchases from us. In addition, under the Medtronic supply agreement, if we fail to supply certain products Medtronic may manufacture and sell these products or have these products manufactured by another party. Our failure to supply these products would result in a loss of sales to Medtronic and would have a material adverse impact on our revenues. Moreover, the supply agreement establishes the pricing Medtronic receives with respect to each product and provides that if we extend more favorable pricing to any other customer, that same pricing will also be extended to Medtronic. A reduction in our pricing with Medtronic could result in a decline in our overall revenue. The current supply agreement with Medtronic will expire on October 11, 2007. We are in the process of negotiating an extension to the supply agreement. While Medtronic may continue to purchase some or all of it introducer requirements from Enpath after the supply agreement has expired, if an agreeable extension to the supply agreement cannot be reached, Medtronic could pursue alternative suppliers for their introducer requirements, which could have a material adverse impact on sales of our products and, consequently, our financial results. We need to successfully integrate our operations into our new facility in 2007. We are in the process of consolidating our two existing facilities into one new facility by the middle of April 2007. We have increased inventory levels for customers prior to the move and we believe that the consolidation will not cause any disruption to customer shipments. However, because of the risks associated with moving a medical products manufacturing facility, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter issues during the move. These risks include delays in re-qualifying manufacturing equipment and processes and customer approvals of the qualification process, which could lead to disrupted shipments to customers affecting both current period revenues and customer satisfaction. In addition, we will experience increased costs as part of moving into a new larger facility and it will be necessary for us to find cost savings and efficiencies once the consolidation is complete. If we are not able to find these cost savings and efficiencies, our gross margins may decrease and our operating costs may increase which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. 9 Table of Contents We face intellectual property claims which could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or result in our incurring substantial costs and liabilities. We rely on patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, know-how, license agreements and contractual provisions to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. These legal means afford us only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or remedies to gain or keep any advantages we may have over our competitors. Costly litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us, to protect trade secrets or “know-how” we own, to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others or to determine the ownership, scope, or validity of our proprietary rights and the rights of others. In 2006, we were named as defendant in a patent infringement action filed by Pressure Products Medical Supplies, Inc, and venued in the United States District Court in the Eastern District of Texas. We have filed an answer denying liability and have filed counterclaims against the plaintiff alleging anti-trust violations and patent misuse. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Although we believe the plaintiff’s claims are without merit and we intend to pursue our defenses vigorously, the existence of the lawsuit may affect our ability to successfully introduce our new second-generation valved introducer (ViaSeal™ Valved Peelable Introducer). Any claim of infringement against us may involve significant liabilities to third parties, could require us to seek licenses from third parties, and could prevent us from manufacturing, selling, or using our products. The occurrence of litigation or the effect of an adverse determination in any of this type of litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on patents and proprietary technology Our success may depend on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products and processes, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. We have 21 U.S. and foreign patents issued related to various aspects of vessel introducers, catheters, stimulation leads and implant tools. There can be no assurance that any future patent protection will be granted, that the scope of any patent protection will exclude competitors or that any of our patents will be held valid if subsequently challenged. The validity and breadth of claims covered in medical technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions and therefore may be highly uncertain. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets, and cannot ensure that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire substantially equivalent trade secrets or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology. Our products are subject to regulatory oversight. The medical products that we sell and propose to sell are subject to regulation by the FDA and by comparable agencies in certain states and foreign countries. The process of complying with requirements of the FDA and other agencies can be costly and time consuming. We have received clearance from the FDA to market our vessel introducer products, safety needle, steerable catheter, and epicardial lead and implant tool. There is no assurance that any future additional clearance can be obtained. In addition, once obtained, these clearances are subject to review and later discovery of problems may result in restrictions on the marketing of a product or withdrawal of the product from the market. We are also subject to certain FDA regulations governing manufacturing practices, packaging and labeling. Non-compliance with these regulations can result in product recalls or other sanctions which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In 2006, we voluntarily initiated Class 2 recalls of a limited number of units of our steerable sheath catheters and a pacemaker lead adaptor, based on deficiencies we discovered in our manufacturing process. We followed FDA guidelines for notification of customers and return of the products, and have received no reports of injuries. We believe that we now have appropriate quality assurance procedures in place and that we have completed all applicable procedures. Although these recalls required time and attention from management and our regulatory personnel and could have an effect on customer relationships, the recalls did not have a material effect on our business. We risk product liability claims and product recalls. The manufacture and sale of medical products entails significant risk of product liability claims or product recalls. Our existing insurance coverage limits may not be adequate to protect us from any liabilities we may incur in connection with clinical trials or the sales of our products. We may require increased product liability coverage as our products are commercialized. Insurance is expensive and may not be 10 Table of Contents available on acceptable terms, or at all. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, or a recall of our products, could have a significant negative effect on our business and financial condition. Even unsuccessful claims could result in the expenditure of funds for legal fees and require management time and could have a negative impact on our business. Our research and development projects may not reach technological feasibility. We are planning on spending approximately the same amount in 2007 as we did in 2006 to continue the development of several new products. These products include a number of leads on a contract development basis for a variety of neurostimulation clinical applications, the new IS-4 adaptors, modified steerable delivery catheters for other applications and a second generation valved introducer for the pacing and central venous catheter markets. While we believe that these products will reach technological feasibility, because of the risks associated with the commercial viability of these products, there can be no assurance that these projects will actually achieve commercialization. These risks include the delay or failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals or the failure to achieve market acceptance. We face competition and rapid technological change. We are faced with competition and rapid technological and industry change and if our competitors’ existing products or new products are more effective or superior to our products, the commercial opportunity for our products could be reduced or eliminated. We face competition from other device manufacturers, many of whom are significantly larger and have greater financial, technical, research, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources than we do. We believe there will be competitive pricing for products developed in our markets. Our competitors may develop or market technologies and products that are more effective or commercially attractive than any we are developing or marketing. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval and introducing or commercializing products before we do. These developments could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition. Even if we are able to compete successfully, we may not be able to do so in a profitable manner. The medical device industry is generally characterized by rapid technological change, changing customer needs, and frequent new product introductions. Our products may be rendered obsolete as a result of future innovations. We have limited sources of supply for our products. We currently purchase, and will continue to purchase, components and raw materials from outside vendors. Although we have identified alternative suppliers for key components and raw materials, at the present time we generally use one source of supply for each component and raw material. If a key supplier becomes unwilling or unable to supply any such component or raw material in a timely manner, or if approval of a proposed supplier is delayed, withheld or withdrawn, we could experience delays in obtaining alternative suppliers which may adversely affect our business. We may need additional capital in the future. In October 2003, we entered into a financing arrangement with our principal bank that included a five-year term loan of $5 million to finance a portion of the acquisition of BIOMEC Cardiovascular Inc., and a $3 million line of credit. The bank has increased the line of credit limit to $4 million and extended the expiration date to April 30, 2007. The borrowings are secured by substantially all of our assets and also contain financial covenants that must be met on a quarterly basis. The agreement also prohibits the payment of dividends without the consent of the lender. Payments on the term loan consist of monthly principal payments of $83,334 plus interest at LIBOR plus 2.5%. These payments commenced in November 2003. The line of credit bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.25% with no minimum interest due and expires on April 30, 2007, if not renewed. Our availability under the line is subject to borrowing base requirements, and advances are at the discretion of the lender. There were no borrowings under the line of credit at December 31, 2006, and the entire $4 million was available for use. In August 2006, we entered into a second financing arrangement with this bank that included a seven-year term loan of up to $4 million which will be used to finance the build-out of our new facility. The borrowings will be secured by substantially all of our assets and the new leasehold improvements. This financing arrangement was amended in January 2007 to allow for a term loan of up to $5 million. Payments on the new 11 Table of Contents term loan will consist of interest payments only on the amount borrowed at LIBOR plus 2.5% until the end of March 2007. Beginning April 2007, the term loan amount will become fixed based on the amount borrowed and payments will commence at a fixed rate plus interest at LIBOR plus 2.5% for the remaining term of the loan. As of December 31, 2006, we had no outstanding borrowings on this term loan. We anticipate that we will utilize approximately $4.5 million of this credit facility to complete the consolidation of our facilities. While we believe that we have sufficient resources with our current cash and the two credit facilities to meet our long-term debt obligations and fund our planned operations for fiscal 2007, there is no assurance that we will not need additional capital in the future. Sources of additional capital may include additional debt financing or the sale of debt or equity securities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully obtain additional capital on favorable terms. We depend on our key personnel. Failure to attract and retain skilled personnel could hinder our research and development and manufacturing efforts. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of key technical and senior management personnel. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified managerial and technical personnel. Our inability to retain or attract qualified personnel could have a significant negative effect upon our efforts and thereby materially harm our business and financial condition. We have a limited public market for our common stock. As of March 14, 2007, we had 6,369,117 shares of common stock outstanding. The average daily trading volume in our Common Stock approximated 14,000 shares in 2004, 11,000 shares in 2005 and 15,000 shares in 2006. There can be no assurance that an active market will exist for our common stock, or that any significant volume of our common stock could be sold without a significant negative impact on the publicly quoted price per share. Our future operating results are difficult to predict and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock. If our revenue declines in a quarter compared to the revenue in the previous quarter, our earnings will likely decline as well because many of our expenses are relatively fixed. In particular, research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses are not affected directly by variations in revenue. In some future quarter or quarters, due to a decrease or shortfall in revenue or for some other reason, our operating results likely will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. In this event, the market price of our common stock may fall abruptly and significantly. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None 