Item 1A Risk Factors The following are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, the Company. We have three major customers and depend on these customers for a significant portion of our revenues. Medtronic accounted for approximately 27%, 41% and 44% of sales from operations over 2005, 2004 and 2003 respectively, while two other customers accounted for approximately 16%, 16% and 18%; and 14%, 11% and 7%, respectively. We anticipate that our expected near-term future growth in sales will be tied in part to these customers’ sales of their existing products, as well as other new products incorporating our components. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in making sales to new customers, increasing sales to existing customers other than Medtronic or developing and marketing new products. To the extent that we do not expand our customer base and product offerings, 8 sales to Medtronic and our other key customers will continue to account for a major portion of our revenues, making us vulnerable to the risks described below. We anticipate that our concentration of business with Medtronic will approximate 30% in 2006 with two other customers making up approximately 19% and 13%, respectively. On October 11, 2002, we entered into a supply agreement with Medtronic that requires Medtronic to purchase exclusively from us all of its requirements for introducer kits manufactured by us for a period of five years. There are no minimum purchase obligations under the supply agreement for our current products or any future products we may develop. If sales of Medtronic’s products that incorporate our products as components decrease or if Medtronic does not develop new products incorporating our products as components, future sales of our products to Medtronic and our results from operations would be adversely affected. Further, any action by Medtronic to discontinue any of its products that incorporate our products, to redesign or change the technical requirements for its products so that our products would not meet those requirements, or to otherwise limit or discontinue its purchases from us could have a material adverse impact on sales of our products and, consequently, our financial results. In addition, under the Medtronic supply agreement, if we fail to supply certain products Medtronic may manufacture and sell these products or have these products manufactured by another party. Our failure to supply these products would result in a loss of sales to Medtronic and would have a material adverse impact on our revenues. Moreover, the supply agreement establishes the pricing Medtronic receives with respect to each product and provides that if we extend more favorable pricing to any other customer, that same pricing will also be extended to Medtronic. A reduction in our pricing with Medtronic could result in a decline in our overall revenue. We may need additional capital in the future. On October 23, 2003, we entered into a financing arrangement with a bank that included a five-year term loan of $5 million, which was used to finance a portion of the BCI acquisition, and a $3 million line of credit. The bank subsequently raised our line of credit to $4 million in April 2005 and the entire line of credit was available for use as of December 31, 2005. The borrowings are secured by substantially all of our assets and also contain financial covenants that must be met on a quarterly basis. The agreement also prohibits the payment of dividends without the consent of the lender. At December 31, 2005, we were in violation of certain of these covenants. These violations were subsequently waived by the bank on February 14, 2006. While we believe that we have sufficient resources with our current cash and the new credit facility to meet our long-term debt obligations and fund our planned operations for fiscal 2006, there is no assurance that we will not need additional capital in the future. Sources of additional capital may include additional debt financing or the sale of debt or equity securities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully obtain additional capital on favorable terms. We have only attained profitability recently and have experienced large income fluctuations. We became a publicly traded company in 1991 and incurred losses in each of the years from 1991 to 1999. For the years ended December 31, 2000 to 2005, we reported the following results: Year Net Income (Loss) Other Information 2000 $ 162,000 2001 $ 6,600,000 Includes $3.1 million gain on sale of gynecology division, recognition of $923,000 income tax benefit 2002 $ 2,900,000 2003 $ 309,000 Includes ELT results from October 23 forward, $2.65 million write-off of purchased in-process R&D 2004 $ (1,300,000 ) Includes safety needle impairment charge of $2.8 million 2005 $ 333,000 Includes recognition of $523,000 income tax benefit There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain profitable operations in the future. 9 The government heavily regulates our business. The medical products that we sell and propose to sell are subject to regulation by the FDA and by comparable agencies in certain states and foreign countries. The process of complying with requirements of the FDA and other agencies can be costly and time consuming. We have received clearance from the FDA to market our vessel introducer products, safety needle, epicardial lead and implant tool. We also have a PMA submission pending with the FDA related to our epicardial steroid lead, and a 510(k) submission related to our steerable introducer product. There is no assurance that any future additional clearance can be obtained. In addition, once obtained, these clearances are subject to review and later discovery of previous unknown problems may result in restrictions on the marketing of a product or withdrawal of the product from the market. We are also subject to certain FDA regulations governing manufacturing practices, packaging and labeling. Non-compliance with these regulations can result in product recalls or other sanctions which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. We depend on patents and proprietary technology. Our success may depend on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products and processes, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. We have 20 U.S. and foreign patents issued related to various aspects of vessel introducers, catheters, stimulation leads and implant tools. There can be no assurance that any future patent protection will be granted, that the scope of any patent protection will exclude competitors or that any of our patents will be held valid if subsequently challenged. The validity and breadth of claims covered in medical technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions and therefore may be highly uncertain. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets, and no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire substantially equivalent trade secrets or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology. We depend on our key personnel. Failure to attract and retain skilled personnel could hinder our research and development and manufacturing efforts. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of key technical and senior management personnel. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified managerial and technical personnel. The inability to retain or attract qualified personnel could have a significant negative effect upon our efforts and thereby materially harm our business and financial condition. We face competition and rapid technological change. We are faced with competition and rapid technological and industry change and if our competitors’ existing products or new products are more effective or superior to our products the commercial opportunity for our products could be reduced or eliminated. We face competition from other device manufacturers, many of whom are significantly larger and have greater financial, technical, research, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources than we do. We believe there will be competitive pricing for products developed in our markets. Our competitors may develop or market technologies and products that are more effective or commercially attractive than any we are developing or marketing. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval and introducing or commercializing products before we do. These developments could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition. Even if we are able to compete successfully, we may not be able to do so in a profitable manner. The medical device industry is generally characterized by rapid technological change, changing customer needs, and frequent new product introductions. Our products may be rendered obsolete as a result of future innovations. We risk product liability claims and product recalls. The manufacture and sale of medical products entails significant risk of product liability claims or product recalls. Our existing insurance coverage limits may not be adequate to protect us from any liabilities we may incur in connection with clinical trials or the sales of our products. We may require increased product liability coverage as our products are commercialized. Insurance is expensive and may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage, or a recall of our products, could have a significant negative effect on our business and financial condition. Even unsuccessful claims could result in the expenditure of funds for legal fees and require management time and could have a negative impact on our business. 10 We have limited sources of supply for our products. We currently purchase, and will continue to purchase, components and raw materials from outside vendors. Although we have identified alternative suppliers for key components and raw materials, at the present time we generally use one source of supply for each component and raw material. If a key supplier becomes unwilling or unable to supply any such component or raw material in a timely manner, or if approval of a proposed supplier is delayed, withheld or withdrawn, we could experience delays in obtaining alternative suppliers which may adversely affect our business. We have a limited public market for our common stock. As of March 14, 2006, we had 6,126,185 shares of common stock outstanding. The average daily trading volume approximated 47,000 shares per day in 2001, 26,000 shares per day in 2002, 18,000 shares per day in 2003, 14,000 shares per day in 2004 and 11,000 shares per day in 2005. There can be no assurance that an active market will exist for our common stock, or that our common stock could be sold without a significant negative impact on the publicly quoted price per share. Our future operating results may fluctuate. If our revenue declines in a quarter compared to the revenue in the previous quarter our earnings will likely decline as well due to the fact that many of our expenses are relatively fixed. In particular, research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses are not affected directly by variations in revenue. In some future quarter or quarters, due to a decrease or shortfall in revenue or for some other reason, our operating results likely will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. In this event, the market price of our common stock may fall abruptly and significantly. Our research and development projects may not reach technological feasibility. We are planning on spending approximately $5.7 million in 2006 to continue the development of several new products. These products include a next generation epicardial steroid lead with an associated delivery tool, the new IS-4 adaptors, modifying the steerable delivery catheters for other applications and a second generation valved introducer for the pacing market. While we believe that these products will reach technological feasibility, because of the risks associated with the commercial viability of these products, there can be no assurance that these projects will actually achieve commercialization. These risks include the delay or failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals or the failure to achieve market acceptance. 