Item 1A. Risk Factors. - ------- ------------ Our business is subject to a number of risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Report, before you decide whether to purchase our common stock. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our results of operations and financial condition are greatly affected by the performance of the real estate industry. The real estate development industry has historically been subject to up and down cycles driven by numerous market and economic factors, both national and local, beyond the control of the real estate developer. Real estate investments often cannot be easily or quickly converted into cash. Market values may be adversely affected by economic conditions, market fundamentals, competition and demographic conditions. Because of the effect these factors have on real estate values, it is difficult to predict with certainty when future sales will occur or what the sales price will be. Changes in mortgage interest rate levels or changes in consumer lending practices could reduce demand for housing. Our business is dependent upon the availability and cost of mortgage financing for potential homebuyers. Any significant increase in the prevailing low mortgage interest rate environment or decrease in available credit could reduce consumer demand for housing, which in turn could lead to fewer home sales or lower sale prices. Our business is currently concentrated in Southern California. As a result, our financial results are dependent on the economic strength of that region. Our current operations are concentrated in Southern California, specifically in the San Diego area. Because of our geographic concentration and limited number of projects, our operations are more vulnerable to adverse changes in the San Diego economy than those of larger, more diversified companies. Any significant increase in the local cost of living, including increases in residential property tax charges, may adversely affect consumer demand for housing projects like ours. Should we not be able to overcome the negative market influences on price and volume resulting from the softening of the real estate market, our financial results could be negatively impacted. Changes in domestic laws and government regulations or in the implementation and/or enforcement of government rules and regulations may delay our projects or increase our costs. Our plans for development projects require numerous government approvals, licenses, permits and agreements, which we must obtain before we can begin development and construction. The approval process can be delayed by withdrawals or modifications of preliminary approvals, by litigation and appeals challenging development rights and by changes in prevailing local circumstances or applicable laws that may require additional approvals. Regulatory requirements may delay the start or completion of our projects and/or increase our costs. 9 Demographic changes in the United States generally and California in particular could reduce the demand for housing. Our operations are sensitive to demographic changes. If the current trend of population increases in California were not to continue, or in the event of any significant reduction in job creation, demand for real estate in California may decline from current levels. Increases in real estate taxes and other local government fees could adversely affect our results. Increases in real estate taxes and other government fees may make it more expensive to own the properties that we are currently developing, which would increase our carrying costs of owning the properties. Significant competition from other real estate developers and homebuilders could adversely affect our results. There are numerous residential real estate developers and development projects operating in the same geographic area in which we operate. Many of our competitors may have advantages over us, such as more favorable locations which may provide better schools and easier access to roads and shopping, or amenities that we may not offer, as well as greater financial resources and/or access to cheaper capital. Delays in construction schedules and cost overruns could adversely affect us. Any material delays could adversely affect our ability to complete our projects, significantly increasing the costs of doing so, or drive potential customers to purchase competitors' products. Cost overruns, if material, could have a direct adverse impact on our results of operations. Increased costs for land, materials and for labor could adversely affect us. Our current and future development projects require us to purchase significant amounts of land, materials and require significant amounts of labor. If these costs increase, it will increase the costs of completing our projects; if we are not able to recoup these increased costs, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Imposition of limitations on our ability to develop our properties resulting from condemnations, environmental laws and regulations and developments in or new applications thereof could increase our costs and delay our projects. The real estate development industry is subject to the risk of condemnation and to increasing environmental, building, construction, zoning and real estate regulations that are imposed by various federal, state and local authorities. Environmental laws may cause us to incur additional costs, and adversely affect our ability to complete our projects in a timely and profitable manner. Property in California is at risk from earthquakes, fires and other natural disasters. Damage to any of our properties, whether by natural disasters, including earthquakes, and fires or otherwise, may either delay or preclude our ability to develop and sell our properties, or affect the price at which we may sell such properties. Although research on earthquake prediction has increased in recent years, it cannot be predicted when and where an earthquake will occur. We do not intend to obtain earthquake insurance for our projects. Under California law we could be liable for some construction defects in structures we build or that are built on land that we develop. California law imposes some liabilities on developers of land on which homes are built as well as on builders. Future construction defect litigation could be based on a strict liability theory based on our involvement in the project or it could be related to infrastructure improvements or grading, even if we are not building homes ourselves. We may not be able to insure certain risks economically. We may experience economic harm if any damage to our properties is not covered by insurance. We cannot be certain that we will be able to insure all risks that we desire to insure economically or that all of our insurers will be financially viable if we make a claim. We may suffer losses that are not covered under our insurance policies. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits should occur, we could lose capital invested in a property, as well as any future revenue from the property. 10 Shortages of adequate water resources and reliable energy sources in the areas where we own real estate projects could adversely affect the value of our properties or restrict us from commencing development. Any shortage of reliable water and energy resources or a drop in consumer confidence in the dependability of such resources in areas where we own land may adversely affect the values of our properties and/or result in governmental restrictions that curtail development projects. Changes in the composition of our assets and liabilities through acquisitions or divestitures may affect our results. We may make future acquisitions or divestitures of assets. Any change in the composition of our assets and liabilities could significantly affect our financial position and the risks that we face. The actual cost of environmental liabilities concerning land owned in San Diego County, California could exceed the amount we reserved for such matter. The actual cost of remediation of undeveloped land owned by one of our subsidiaries could exceed the amount reserved for such matter, which would adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. Opposition from local community or political groups with respect to construction or development at a particular site could increase development costs. Before the Company can commence development on any of its projects, numerous approvals from regulatory authorities are required. Before these approvals are granted, other parties may oppose the Company's development plans or require modifications to its plans, either of which can cause delays and increase the development cost of a project. We may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to fully realize our deferred tax asset. We and certain of our subsidiaries have net operating tax loss carryforwards ("NOLs") and other tax attributes. If we are unable to generate sufficient taxable income, we will not be able to fully realize the recorded amount of the deferred tax asset. Significant influence over our affairs may be exercised by our principal stockholders. As of February 16, 2007, the significant stockholders of our Company are Leucadia National Corporation (approximately 29.9% beneficial ownership), our Chairman, Joseph S. Steinberg (approximately 8.2% beneficial ownership, including ownership by certain family members, but excluding Mr. Steinberg's private charitable foundation) and one of our directors, Ian M. Cumming (approximately 7.3% beneficial ownership, including ownership by certain family members, but excluding Mr. Cumming's private charitable foundation). Mr. Steinberg is also President, a director and a significant stockholder of Leucadia. Mr. Cumming is also Chairman of the Board, a director and a significant stockholder of Leucadia. Accordingly, Leucadia and Messrs. Steinberg and Cumming could exert significant influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election or removal of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. Our common stock is subject to transfer restrictions. We and certain of our subsidiaries have NOLs and other tax attributes, the amount and availability of which are subject to certain qualifications, limitations and uncertainties. In order to reduce the possibility that certain changes in ownership could result in limitations on the use of the tax attributes, our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that generally restrict the ability of a person or entity from acquiring ownership (including through attribution under the tax law) of 5% or more of our common stock and the ability of persons or entities now owning 5% or more of our common stock from acquiring additional common stock. The restriction will remain until the earliest of (a) December 31, 2010, (b) the repeal of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (or any comparable successor provision) and (c) the beginning of our taxable year to which these tax attributes may no longer be carried forward. The restriction may be waived by our board of directors. Stockholders are advised to carefully monitor their ownership of our common stock and consult their own legal advisors and/or us to determine whether their ownership of our common stock approaches the proscribed level. Our common stock is not traded on NASDAQ or listed on any securities exchange. Our common stock is not quoted on any market or listed on any securities exchange. Prices for our common stock are quoted on the Over-the-Counter (OTC) Bulletin Board. Securities whose prices are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board do not enjoy the same liquidity as securities that trade on a recognized market or securities exchange. As a result, stockholders may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of the securities. 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. - ------- ------------------------- Not applicable. 