Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information set forth elsewhere or incorporated by reference in this report, the following factors relating to us and our common stock should be considered carefully. Risks Relating to Our Business Demand for our services and products depends on oil and natural gas industry activity and expenditure levels that are directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices. Demand for our products and services is particularly sensitive to the level of exploration, development, and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies, including national oil companies. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, oil and natural gas, market uncertainty, and a variety of other factors that are beyond our control. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices will depress the immediate levels of exploration, development, and production activity, often reflected as changes in rig counts. Perceptions of longer-term lower oil and natural gas prices by oil and gas companies may result in the reduction or deferral of major expenditures given the long-term nature of many large-scale development projects. Lower levels of activity result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our services that could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Many factors affect the supply and demand for oil and natural gas and therefore influence product prices, including: 10 Table of Contents • the level of production; • the levels of oil and natural gas inventories; • domestic and worldwide demand for oil and natural gas; • the expected cost of developing new reserves; • the actual cost of finding and producing oil and natural gas; • the availability of attractive oil and gas field prospects, which may be affected by governmental actions and regulations or environmental activists; • the availability of transportation infrastructure and refining capacity; • the level of drilling activity; • global weather conditions and natural disasters; • worldwide political, military, and economic conditions and economic activity, including growth in underdeveloped countries; • national government political objectives, including the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to set and maintain production levels and prices for oil; • the cost and timing of the development of alternate energy sources; and • tax policies. If demand for drilling services or drilling rig utilization rates decrease significantly then demand for our services will decrease, which will adversely affect our results of operations. We may not successfully integrate the businesses we acquire or achieve the benefits we are seeking from acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we intend to evaluate potential acquisitions of other businesses or assets. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in consummating any such acquisitions. Successful acquisition of businesses or assets will depend on various factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to obtain financing and the competitive environment for acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate any business or assets that we acquire in the future. The integration of acquired businesses is likely to be complex and time consuming and may place a significant strain on management resources. Disruptions in the political and economic conditions of the foreign countries in which we operate expose us to risks that may have a material adverse effect on our business. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from our operations outside of the United States, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the countries in which we transact business. Our operations in countries other than the United States accounted for approximately 76% of our consolidated revenues during the year ended December 31, 2007. Our operations in Venezuela and Algeria accounted for approximately 19% and 20%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues during the year ended December 31, 2007. We anticipate that our revenues from foreign operations will increase in the future due to our international presence in key oil and gas markets. Operations in countries other than the United States are subject to various risks peculiar to each country. With respect to any particular country, these risks may include: • expropriation and nationalization of our assets or those of our customers in that country; • political and economic instability; • civil unrest, acts of terrorism, force majeure, war, or other armed conflict; • natural disasters, including those related to earthquakes and flooding; • inflation; • currency fluctuations, devaluations, conversion and expropriation restrictions; • confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; • governmental activities that limit or disrupt markets, restrict payments, or limit the movement of funds; • governmental activities that may result in the deprivation of contract rights; and • trade restrictions and economic embargoes imposed by the United States and other countries. Due to the unsettled political conditions in many oil-producing countries, our revenue and profits are subject to the adverse consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest, strikes, currency controls, and governmental actions, which could impact the supply and pricing for oil and natural gas, disrupt our operations, and increase our costs for security worldwide. International areas where we operate that have significant amounts of political risk include parts of Africa, South America and the Middle East. Operations in these areas increase our exposure to the foregoing risks. 11 Table of Contents For instance, the Venezuelan National Assembly has approved a system governing how the state oil company, Petróleos de Venezuela, could gain operating control of oil producing projects. Subsequently, the Venezuelan national oil company has seized control of at least a 60 percent stake in oil production projects where foreign oil companies previously had a majority stake and operated the production project. These actions have created uncertainty in the future business and investment activities of foreign oil and natural gas companies in Venezuela and have resulted in some companies withdrawing or curtailing activities in Venezuela. To the extent that these actions adversely affect our customers' activities in this region, they may adversely affect our revenues and profits. We are subject to foreign exchange and currency risks, particularly with respect to Venezuela. We operate internationally, giving rise to exposure to market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates to the extent that transactions are not denominated in U.S. Dollars. We typically endeavor to denominate our contracts in U.S. Dollars to mitigate exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies. On December 31, 2007, we had a net working capital balance denominated in Bolivars of $ 671,937 and subject to market risks. Effective March 1, 2005, the exchange rate in Venezuela devalued from 1,920 to 2,150 Venezuelan bolívars to the U.S. dollar. We have taken charges to equity under the caption "foreign currency translation loss" of $361,000 during the year ended December 31, 2005 to reflect devaluation of the Venezuelan bolívar for that period. There was no currency gain or loss attributable to Venezuela during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. The Venezuelan government implemented a foreign currency control regime on February 5, 2003. This has resulted in currency controls that restrict the conversion of the Venezuelan currency, the Venezuelan bolívar, to U.S. Dollars. A subsidiary of ours has registered with the control board (CADIVI) in order to have a portion of total receivables paid in U.S. dollars directly to a United States bank account. Venezuela is also on the U.S. government's "watch list" for highly inflationary economies. Management continues to monitor the situation closely. The cyclical nature of, or a prolonged downturn in, our industry, could affect the carrying value of our goodwill and negatively impact our earnings. As of December 31, 2007 we had approximately $8.9 million of goodwill or 6.5% of total assets. We have recorded goodwill because we paid more for some our businesses than the fair market value of the tangible and measurable intangible net assets of those businesses. Upon our annual review of our goodwill balance, if management determines that the carrying value of our equipment may not be recoverable, our goodwill could be reduced and therefore adversely impact our earnings. We must successfully compete for the services of highly trained technical personnel. Many of the services that we provide are complex and require a high level of expertise and often must be performed in harsh conditions. Our success depends in part upon our ability to employ and retain technical personnel with the ability to provide and enhance these services. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase our skilled labor force. The demand for skilled workers is high and the supply is limited. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay, or both. If these events were to occur, our cost structure could increase, our margins could decrease, and our growth potential could be impaired. 12 Table of Contents Our hydraulic workover/snubbing business is susceptible to seasonal earnings volatility and may be adversely affected by severe weather. Our hydraulic workover/snubbing operations are directly affected by seasonal differences in weather in the areas in which we operate, most notably in the Gulf of Mexico and the Gulf Coast region. Weather conditions in the Gulf of Mexico and the Gulf Coast region generally result in higher activity in the spring, summer and fall months, with the lowest activity in the winter months. In addition, summer and fall drilling activity and, therefore, the demand for our hydraulic workover/snubbing services can be restricted due to hurricanes and other storms prevalent in the Gulf of Mexico and along the Gulf Coast. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include: • evacuation of personnel and curtailment of services; • weather-related damage to offshore equipment resulting in suspension of operations; • weather-related damage to our facilities; • increase in insurance cost and reduction in its availability; • inability to deliver men or materials to jobsites; and • loss of productivity. For example, during 2005 one hydraulic workover unit was lost as a consequence of severe weather in the Gulf of Mexico. We have borrowed, and may in the future borrow, money to fund our operations and growth, which exposes us to certain risks that may materially impact our operations. As of December 31, 2007, we had outstanding subordinated promissory notes totaling approximately $21.2 million, the outstanding amount under our bank term credit facility was $5.9 million, the outstanding amount under our bank revolving credit facility was $1.1 million, and we had approximately $7.0 million in remaining borrowing capacity under our bank revolving credit facility. The borrowing base limitation under our revolving credit facility is subject to re-determination periodically at the discretion of the lender. Upon a re-determination, we could be required to repay a portion of our bank debt. We may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments, which could result in a default under the terms of the loan agreement and an acceleration of the loan. We intend to finance our operating expenses, capital expenditures and acquisitions with cash flow from operations, and borrowings under our credit facility. In addition, we may significantly alter our capitalization in order to make future acquisitions. These changes in capitalization may significantly increase our level of debt. If we incur additional debt for these or other purposes, the related risks that we face could intensify. A higher level of debt also increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of debt depends on our future performance which is affected by general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Our level of debt affects our operations in several important ways, including the following: • a significant portion of our cash flow from operations must be used to pay interest on borrowings and is therefore not available to re-invest in our business; • the covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt limit our ability to borrow additional funds, pay dividends, make capital expenditures, dispose of assets and issue shares of preferred stock and otherwise may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions; • a high level of debt may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or general corporate or other purposes; • a highly leveraged financial position would make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and could limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures; and • any debt that we incur under our term credit facility or revolving credit facility will be at variable rates which makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates. Our ability to finance our business activities will require us to generate substantial cash flow. Our business activities require substantial capital. We intend to finance our operations and growth in the future through cash flows from operations, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and/or the issuance of additional equity securities. We cannot be sure that our business will continue to generate cash flow at or above current levels. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our business and service our debt, we may have to obtain additional financing through the issuance of debt and/or equity. We cannot be sure that any additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms. Issuing equity securities to satisfy our financing requirements could cause substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. 13 Table of Contents If our revenues were to decrease due to lower demand for our services as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices or for other reasons, and if we could not obtain capital through our revolving credit facility or otherwise, our ability to operate and grow our business could be materially adversely affected. The loss of one or more of our current customers could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is dependent not only on securing new customers but also on maintaining current customers. Approximately 37% of our consolidated revenues during the year ended December 31, 2007 were derived from two key customers. Unless we are able to retain our existing customers, or secure new customers if we lose one or more of our significant customers, our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected. The intense competition in our industry could result in reduced profitability and loss of market share for us. We compete with larger equipment and service providers in the oil and natural gas industry. Some of these companies have substantially greater financial resources and larger operations than we do. They may be better able to compete because of their broader geographic dispersion or their product and service diversity. As a result, we could lose customers and market share to those competitors. These companies may also be better positioned than we to successfully endure downturns in the oil and natural gas industry. Our operations may be adversely affected if our current competitors or new market entrants introduce new products or services with better prices, features, performance or other competitive characteristics than our products and services. Competitive pressures or other factors also may result in significant price competition that could harm our revenue and our business. Additionally, we may face competition in our efforts to acquire other businesses. We could be subject to substantial liability claims that could harm our financial condition. Our operations involve hazardous activities that involve an extraordinarily high degree of risk. Hazardous operations are subject to accidents resulting in personal injury and the loss of life or property, environmental mishaps and mechanical failures, and litigation arising from such events may result in our being named a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims. We may be held liable in certain circumstances, including if we fail to exercise reasonable care in connection with our activities, and we may also be liable for injuries to agents, employees and contractors who are acting within the course and scope of their duties. However: • we may not be able to secure insurance coverage for all of the claims or damages to which we are exposed or such coverage may not be available on terms we consider commercially reasonable; • we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by any insurance coverage that we do obtain, such as damages from environmental contamination; and • the dollar amount of any damages may exceed our policy limits. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on us. No assurance can be given that we will not be subject to future claims that are not covered by or are in excess of the amount of insurance coverage which we deem appropriate to maintain. Risks Relating to Our Relationship with Oil States Energy Services, Inc. Oil States Energy Services, Inc. owns a significant percentage of common stock in our company, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of stockholder votes. Oil States Energy Services, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Oil States International, Inc., owns approximately 15.2% of our common stock outstanding as of March 11, 2008. In addition, Douglas E. Swanson, current Chairman of our board of directors, is a director of Oil States International Inc. Oil States Energy Services, Inc. has nominated, and our board subsequently appointed and shareholders elected Robert G. Croyle to our board of directors. As a result, Oil States will be able to exercise significant influence over the outcome of matters requiring a stockholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our charter and bylaws, the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including transactions involving a change of control. The interests of Oil States may differ from yours, and Oil States may vote its common stock in a manner that may adversely affect you. 14 Table of Contents We have renounced any interest in specified business opportunities, and Oil States International, Inc. and its director nominees on our board of directors generally have no obligation to offer us those opportunities. Pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, we have renounced any interest or expectancy in specified business opportunities in which Oil States International, Inc., any of its affiliates or any of their respective officers, directors, employees or other agents serving as a member of our board of directors (collectively, the "Oil States Group") participates or desires or seeks to participate and that involves any aspect of the energy equipment or services business or industry. Our certificate of incorporation also provides that if any such business opportunity is presented to a person who is a member of the Oil States Group, including any of those individuals who also serve as a member of our board of directors: • no member of the Oil States Group or any of those individuals has any obligation to communicate or offer the opportunity to us; and • such entity or individual may pursue the opportunity as that entity or individual sees fit, unless: • it was presented to a member of the Oil States Group who also serves as a member of our board of directors solely in that person's capacity as a director of our company and no other member of the Oil States Group independently received notice of or otherwise identified such opportunity; or • the opportunity was identified solely through the disclosure of information by or on behalf of our company. We may amend these provisions of our certificate of incorporation only by an affirmative vote of holders of at least 80% of our outstanding common stock. As a result of these charter provisions, our future competitive position and growth potential could be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock Future sales of our common stock by our existing stockholders may depress our stock price. As of March 11, 2008, there were 75,776,581 shares of our common stock outstanding. We have filed a registration statement registering all of the shares owned by Oil States Energy Services, Inc. for resale, which will be available to Oil States Energy Services, Inc. for future sales. In addition, approximately 5.0 million shares of common stock underlying certain warrant agreements, employee stock option plans, and director stock option plans are eligible for immediate sale, and we may register for sale additional shares underlying these or other plans in the future. All of the common stock covered by current and any future registration statements may be sold by the selling security holders in market transactions from time to time. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Trading volumes of our shares of common stock have been comparatively low and, therefore, our common stock may suffer from limited liquidity and its prices will likely be volatile and its value may be adversely affected. Because of our relatively low trading volumes, the trading price of our common stock will likely be subject to significant price fluctuations and limited liquidity. This may adversely affect the value of your investment. In addition, our common stock price could be subject to fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results, changes in management, future announcements concerning us, general trends in the industry and other events or factors as well as those described above. We have not paid, and do not anticipate paying, any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We do not expect to declare or pay any cash or other dividends in the foreseeable future on our common stock. Our existing credit facilities restrict our ability to pay cash dividends, and we may also enter into credit agreements or other borrowing arrangements in the future that further restrict our ability to declare or pay cash dividends on our common stock. 15 Table of Contents You may experience dilution of your ownership interests due to the future issuance of additional shares of our common stock. We may in the future issue our previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders. We are currently authorized to issue 125,000,000 shares of common stock and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such designations, preferences and rights as determined by our board of directors. As of March 11, 2008, no shares of our preferred stock were outstanding, 75,776,581 shares of common stock were outstanding, and there were approximately 8.0 million shares of common stock underlying certain warrant agreements, employee stock option plans and director stock option plans, of which options and warrants to purchase 6.3 million shares were outstanding and of these shares, 5.1 million were exercisable within 60 days. The issuance of such additional shares of common stock would dilute the interests of our existing stockholders and issuance or potential issuance of such shares may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, future private placements of our securities for capital raising purposes, or for other business purposes. Any such issuances would further dilute the interests of our existing stockholders. We may issue preferred stock, the terms of which could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such preferences, powers and relative participating, optional and other rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might afford holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our common stock. The ownership interest of Oil States Energy Services, Inc., the Rights Agreement by and between us and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company dated November 17, 2001 ("Rights Agreement"), provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Delaware law could discourage a takeover attempt, which may reduce or eliminate the likelihood of a change of control transaction and, therefore, your ability to sell your shares for a premium. The significant ownership position of Oil States Energy Services, Inc., our Rights Agreement, provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company. We have entered into a Rights Agreement that would cause extreme dilution to any person or group (other than Oil States Energy Services, Inc., its affiliates and certain of its direct transferees) who attempts to acquire a significant interest in us without advance approval of our board of directors. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions for a classified board, limitations on the removal of directors and on stockholder proposals at meetings of stockholders and limitations on the right of stockholders to call special meetings. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Each of these factors could increase the difficulty for a third party to acquire us and therefore delay or prevent a change of control transaction, even if that change would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect the value of our common stock and reduce or eliminate your ability to sell your shares of common stock at a premium. Lack of effective internal control over financial reporting could result in an inability to accurately report our financial results that could lead to a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Effective internal control over financial reporting is essential for us to produce reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial information or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, our independent auditors, UHY LLP, issued a letter to our audit committee noting certain matters in our Venezuelan subsidiary that they considered to be material weaknesses in internal control. The matters listed in the letter included the lack of controls to mitigate the risk of fraud and the lack of controls over financial reporting; particularly, with respect to adjustments necessary to convert the Venezuelan financial statements from Venezuelan generally accepted accounting principles to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. 16 Table of Contents We enacted changes in policies and procedures during 2006 designed to remediate the material weaknesses identified in our internal control over financial reporting and at December 31, 2006 such material weaknesses were remediated. However, there can be no assurance that in the future other material weakness will not arise and failure to successfully implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, including any ineffectiveness of the corrective actions that may be needed to address the control deficiencies, could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements or otherwise cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. This, in turn, could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 