Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information set forth elsewhere or incorporated by reference in this report, the following factors relating to us and our common stock should be considered carefully. 10 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business Demand for our services and products depends on oil and natural gas industry activity and expenditure levels that are directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices. Demand for our products and services is particularly sensitive to the level of exploration, development, and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies, including national oil companies. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, oil and natural gas, market uncertainty, and a variety of other factors that are beyond our control. Current commodity prices as well as expectations about future prices and price volatility are important in determining the future spending levels of our customers and associated demand for our products and services. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices will depress exploration, development, and production activity, often ref lected as changes in rig counts. Perceptions of longer-term lower oil and natural gas prices by oil and gas companies may result in the reduction or deferral of major expenditures given the long-term nature of many large-scale development projects. Lower levels of activity result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our services that could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Many factors affect the supply and demand for oil and natural gas and therefore influence product prices, including: • the level of production and production capability; • the levels of oil and natural gas inventories; • domestic and worldwide demand for oil and natural gas; • the expected cost of developing new reserves; • the actual cost of finding and producing oil and natural gas; • the availability of attractive oil and gas field prospects, which may be affected by governmental actions and regulations or environmental activists; • the availability of transportation infrastructure and refining capacity; • the level of drilling activity; • global weather conditions and natural disasters; • worldwide political, military, and economic conditions and economic activity, including growth in underdeveloped countries; • national government political objectives, including the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to set and maintain production levels and prices for oil; • the cost and timing of the development of alternate energy sources; and • tax policies. If demand for drilling services or drilling rig utilization rates decrease significantly, then demand for our services will decrease, which will adversely affect our results of operations. The political and economic conditions of the foreign countries in which we operate expose us to risks that may have a material adverse effect on our business. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from our operations outside of the United States, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the countries in which we transact business. Our operations in countries other than the United States accounted for approximately 68% of our consolidated revenues during the year ended December 31, 2009. Our operations in Venezuela and Algeria accounted for approximately 7% and 19%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues during the year ended December 31, 2009. Remaining foreign revenues for 2009 were primarily generated in India and Libya, with each representing over 12% of total revenues for the year ending December 31, 2009. We anticipate that our revenues from foreign operations will increase in the future due to our international presence in key oil and gas markets. Our international operations are subject to various risks peculiar to each country. With respect to any particular country, these risks may include: • expropriation and nationalization of our assets or those of our customers in that country; • political and economic instability; • strikes or work stoppages, civil unrest, acts of terrorism, force majeure, war or other armed conflict; • natural disasters, including those related to earthquakes and flooding; • inflation; • currency fluctuations, devaluations, conversion and expropriation restrictions; • confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; • governmental activities that limit or disrupt markets, restrict or reduce payments, or limit the movement of funds; • governmental activities that may result in the deprivation of contract rights; and • trade restrictions and economic embargoes imposed by the United States and other countries. Due to the unsettled political conditions in many oil-producing areas in which we operate, including parts of Africa, South America and the Middle East, our revenue and profits are subject to increased risk of disruption and cost associated with the foregoing risks. 11 Table of Contents For instance, the Venezuelan National Assembly has approved a system governing how the state oil company, Petróleos de Venezuela, could gain operating control of oil producing projects. In 2007, the Venezuelan national oil company seized control of at least a 60% stake in oil production projects where foreign oil companies previously had a majority stake and operated the production project. These actions have created uncertainty in future business and investment activities among oil and natural gas companies and other business in Venezuela and have resulted in some companies withdrawing or curtailing activities in Venezuela. More recently, the Venezuela National Assembly enacted legislation that allows the Venezuelan government, directly or through its state oil company, to assume control over the operations and assets of certain oil field service providers in exchange for reimbursement of the book value of the assets adjusted for certain liabilities. To the extent that these actions adversely affect our assets and operations or our customers' activities in this region, they may adversely affect our consolidated revenues, results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, in some jurisdictions we are subject to foreign governmental regulations favoring or requiring the awarding of contracts to local contractors or requiring foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These regulations may adversely affect our ability to compete. Our international business operations also include projects in countries where governmental corruption has been known to exist and where our competitors who are not subject to United States laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, can gain competitive advantages over us by securing business awards, licenses or other preferential treatment in those jurisdictions using methods that United States law and regulations prohibit us from using. For example, our non-U.S. competitors are not subject to the anti-bribery restrictions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which make it illegal to give anything of value to foreign officials or employees or agents of nationally owned oil companies in order to obtain or retain any business or other advantage. We may be subject to competitive disadvantages to the extent that our competitors are able to secure business, licenses or other preferential treatment by making payment to government officials and others in positions of influence. Violations of these laws could result in monetary and criminal penalties against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. Our customers’ activity levels and spending for our products and services may be adversely impacted by the recent volatility of oil and natural gas prices and uncertainty in the credit and capital markets. Recently, commodity prices have been extremely volatile. While current commodity prices are important contributors to positive cash flow for our customers, expectations about future prices and price volatility are generally more important for determining their future spending levels and demand for our products and services. Additionally, many of our customers finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. Recently, there has been significant uncertainty affecting the capital markets and the availability of credit. The combination of a reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in our customer s reducing capital expenditure budgets, curtailing operations, failing to meet their obligations as they come due and delaying payment of, or renegotiating the terms and amount of, amounts owing to us. A material reduction in, or curtailment of, the operations or growth of our customer base as a whole, or any failure of our customers to meet or continue their contractual obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We have borrowed, and may in the future borrow, money to fund our operations and growth, which exposes us to certain risks that may materially impact our operations. On February 10, 2009, we entered into a new $54.4 million credit agreement, providing for a term loan in the principal amount of $34.4 million and a revolving credit line in the principal amount of up to $20 million. The term loan facility requires regularly scheduled quarterly principal payments of $1.72 million. The term and revolver credit lines require regularly scheduled quarterly payments of interest. The term loan and the revolving credit line each mature on February 10, 2012. As of December 31, 2009 we had $39.1 million outstanding under the credit agreement and have the ability to borrow an additional $5.6 million. Additionally, we have outstanding a subordinated promissory note totaling $3.0 million. The borrowing base limitation under our revolving credit facility is subject to re-determinat ion at the discretion of the lender if we fail to deliver the borrowing base certificate. Upon a re-determination, we could be required to repay a portion of our bank debt. Any failure by us to pay when due any amounts owing under the credit agreement or outstanding subordinated promissory note could result in a default and an acceleration of the loan. We intend to finance our operating expenses, capital expenditures and acquisitions with cash flow from operations and borrowings under our credit agreement. In addition, we may significantly alter our capitalization in order to make future acquisitions. These changes in capitalization may significantly increase our level of debt. If we incur additional debt for these or other purposes, the related risks that we face could intensify. A higher level of debt also increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and to reduce our level of debt depends on our future performance which is affected by general eco nomic conditions and financial, business and other factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Our level of debt affects our operations in several important ways, including the following: 12 Table of Contents • a significant portion of our cash flow from operations must be used to pay interest on borrowings and is therefore not available to re-invest in our business; • the covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt limit our ability to borrow additional funds, pay dividends, make capital expenditures, dispose of assets and issue shares of preferred stock and otherwise may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions; • a high level of debt may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or general corporate or other purposes; • a leveraged financial position would make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and could limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures; and • any debt that we incur under our term credit facility or revolving credit facility will be at variable rates which makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates. Our ability to finance our business activities will require us to generate substantial cash flow. Our business activities require substantial capital. We intend to finance our operations through cash flows from operations and borrowings under our credit facilities; however, we cannot be sure that our business will continue to generate cash flow at or above current levels or in an amount sufficient to fund our future business activities and service our debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our business and service our debt, we may have to obtain additional financing through borrowings under our credit facilities and the issuance of debt and/or equity securities. We cannot be sure that any additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms. Issuing equity securities to satisfy our financing requirements could cause substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. font> If our revenues were to decrease due to lower demand for our services as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices or for other reasons, and if we could not obtain capital through our revolving credit facility or otherwise, our ability to operate and grow our business could be materially adversely impacted. Deterioration of the credit and capital markets may hinder or prevent our access to capital, making it more expensive and difficult for us to meet future capital needs. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile, which has caused a substantial deterioration in the credit and capital markets. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on comparable terms to existing debt, and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide new funding to borrowers. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding from credit and capital markets will be available if needed and, to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed or on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or may be required to reduce our capital expenditures and, therefore, be unable to expand our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. The loss of one or more of our current customers could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is dependent upon a few large customers. Approximately 42% of our consolidated revenues during the year ended December 31, 2009 were derived from three key customers. Unless we are able to retain our existing customers, or secure new customers the loss of one or more of our significant customers would adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We are subject to foreign exchange and currency risks, particularly with respect to Venezuela. We operate internationally, giving rise to exposure to market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates to the extent that transactions are not denominated in U.S. Dollars. We typically endeavor to denominate all of our contracts in U.S. Dollars to mitigate exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies. On December 31, 2009, we had a net working capital balance denominated in Venezuelan currency (Bolivars) and subject to market risks of $1,299,000. On December 31, 2009, our total Venezuela net working capital excluding U.S. Dollars in a U.S. bank account was $10,517,000, and our net book value of property and equipment was $4,175,000. The Venezuelan government implemented a foreign currency control regime on February 5, 2003 that has restricted the conversion of the Bolivars to U.S. Dollars. Our operating subsidiary has registered with the control board (CADIVI) to permit a portion of our total receivables paid in U.S. dollars directly to a United States bank account. Venezuela is also on the U.S. government's "watch list" for highly inflationary economies. We estimate the negative pre-tax impact on our working capital balance denominated in Bolivar Fuerte to be approximately $650,000 for the quarter ended March 31, 2010. Inflation and future devaluation may require us to record further charges. Effective January 11, 2010 the Venezuelan government devalued its currency and moved to a two-tier exchange structure. The official exchange rate move d from 2.15 to 2.60 for essential goods and to 4.30 for non-essential goods and services. The intense competition in our industry could result in reduced profitability and loss of market share for us. We compete with larger equipment and service providers in the oil and natural gas industry. Some of these companies have substantially greater financial resources and larger operations than we do. They may be better able to compete because of their broader geographic dispersion or their product and service diversity. As a result, we could lose customers and market share to those competitors. These companies may also be better positioned than we to successfully endure downturns in the oil and natural gas industry. Our operations may be adversely affected if our current competitors or new market entrants introduce new products or services with better prices, features, performance or other competitive characteristics than our products and services. Competitive pressures or other factors also may result in significant price competition th at could harm our revenue and our business. Additionally, we may face competition in our efforts to acquire other businesses. We must successfully compete for the services of highly trained technical personnel. Many of the services that we provide are complex and require a high level of expertise and often must be performed in harsh conditions. Our success depends in part upon our ability to employ and retain technical personnel with the ability to provide and enhance these services. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase our skilled labor force. The demand for skilled workers is high and the supply is limited. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay, or both. If these events were to occur, our cost structure could increase, our margins could decrease, and our growth potential could be impaired. Our hydraulic workover/snubbing business is susceptible to seasonal earnings volatility and may be adversely affected by severe weather. Our hydraulic workover/snubbing operations are directly affected by seasonal differences in weather in the areas in which we operate, most notably in the Gulf of Mexico and the Gulf Coast. Weather conditions in these regions generally result in higher activity in the spring, summer and fall months, with the lowest activity in the winter months. In addition, summer and fall drilling activity and, therefore, the demand for our hydraulic workover/snubbing services can be restricted due to hurricanes and other storms prevalent in the Gulf of Mexico and along the Gulf Coast. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include: • evacuation of personnel and curtailment of services; • weather-related damage to offshore equipment resulting in suspension of operations; • weather-related damage to our facilities; • increase in insurance cost and reduction in its availability; • inability to deliver men or materials to jobsites; and • loss of productivity. 14 Table of Contents Our industry is prone to overcapacity, which results in increased competition and lower prices for our services. Oilfield service companies acquired additional equipment to meet their customers’ increasing demand for services as a result of high natural gas and crude oil prices and the associated increase in drilling activity in prior years. This resulted in an increased competitive environment and a significant increase in capacity among us and our competitors in certain of our operating regions. In the latter half of 2008 and continuing in 2009, prices for natural gas and crude oil and utilization rates for drilling rigs declined significantly. A sustained decline in these prices could result in a lower number of wells that are commercially viable for the natural gas and oil producers that we service. A reduction in the number of wells that require service could also increase overcapacity in our industry. To the extent that overcapacity persists, we will continue to experience significant downward pricing pressure and lower demand for our services, which will continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We could be subject to substantial liability claims that could harm our financial condition. Our operations involve hazardous activities that involve an extraordinarily high degree of risk. Hazardous operations are subject to accidents resulting in personal injury and the loss of life or property, environmental mishaps and mechanical failures, and litigation arising from such events may result in our being named a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims. We may be held liable in certain circumstances, including if we fail to exercise reasonable care in connection with our activities, and we may also be liable for injuries to agents, employees and contractors who are acting within the course and scope of their duties. However: • we may not be able to secure insurance coverage for all of the claims or damages to which we are exposed or such coverage may not be available on terms we consider commercially reasonable; • we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by any insurance coverage that we do obtain, such as damages from environmental contamination; and • the dollar amount of any damages may exceed our policy limits. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on us. No assurance can be given that we will not be subject to future claims that are not covered by or are in excess of the amount of insurance coverage which we deem appropriate to maintain. Declines in oil and natural gas prices and global economic weakness during 2009 have resulted in customers delaying payments on our invoices, which trend could adversely impact our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. In line with industry practice, we bill our customers for our services in arrears and are, therefore, subject to our customers delaying or failing to pay our invoices. While historically our customer base has not presented significant credit risks, the economic recession and decrease in commodity prices has increased our exposure to the risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers as a consequence of reductions in our customer’s cash flow from operations and limits on their access to capital. For example, we have seen an increased delay in receiving payment on our receivables from our national oil company customers in Venezuela, and, during first quarter 2009, and most of the second quarter, we temporarily suspended operations in Venezuela pending payment, before resuming operations in late second quarter of 2009 a partial payment was received. If these customers, or any of our other significant customers, delay in paying us for a prolonged period or fail to pay us a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, it may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. A more than temporary halt in our operations could result in our incurring impairment charges to the carrying values of our assets, further negatively impacting our results of operations and financial condition. To the extent that our cash flows are affected by delays in, or failures by, our customers paying our receivables, we may have to obtain additional financing through borrowings under our credit facilities and the issuance of debt and/or equity securities. Our borrowing capacity under our credit facilities and our ability to satisfy the financial covenants contained in our credit facilities may be adversely impacted by declines in our asset values or results of operations, and we may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. The cyclical nature of, or a prolonged downturn in, our industry could affect the carrying value of our goodwill and negatively impact our earnings. As of December 31, 2009, we had $14,313,000 of goodwill or 7.3% of total assets. We have recorded goodwill because we paid more for some our businesses than the fair market value of the tangible and measurable intangible net assets of those businesses. Upon our annual review of our goodwill balance, if management determines that the carrying value of our equipment may not be recoverable, our goodwill could be reduced and therefore adversely impact our earnings. 15 Table of Contents We may not successfully integrate the businesses we acquire or achieve the benefits we are seeking from acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we intend to evaluate potential acquisitions of other businesses or assets. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in consummating any such acquisitions. Successful acquisition of businesses or assets will depend on various factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to obtain financing and the competitive environment for acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate any business or assets that we acquire in the future. The integration of acquired businesses is likely to be complex and time consuming and may place a significant strain on management resources. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding issues of health, safety and protection of the environment. Under these laws and regulations, we may become liable for penalties arising from non-compliance, property and natural resource damages or costs of performing remediation. Any changes in these laws and regulations could increase our costs of doing business. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of natural resources and the environment, health and safety, waste management, and transportation of waste and other substances. Liability under these laws and regulations could result in cancellation of well operations, expenditures for compliance and remediation, and liability for property damages and personal injuries. Sanctions for noncompliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations may include assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, revocation of permits and issuance of corrective action orders. In addition, the oil and natural gas operations of our customers and, therefore, our operations are limited by lease stipulations designed to protect various wildlife. Laws protecting the environment generally have become more stringent over time and are expected to continue to do so, which could lead to material increases in costs for future environmental compliance and remediation. The modification or interpretation of existing laws or regulations, or the adoption of new laws or regulations, could curtail exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and natural gas and could limit our well services opportunities. Some environmental laws and regulations may impose joint and several, strict liability, which means that in some situations we could be exposed to liability as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or due to the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators or other third parties. Clean-up costs and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and regulations, and costs associated with changes in such laws and regulations could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our well services opportunities may be limited by the affect on our customers of legislative and regulatory proposals related to climate change and hydraulic fracturing techniques utilized in many oil and gas reservoirs. Several states have or may adopt climate change and greenhouse gas legislation and regulations. Presently there are no federally mandated greenhouse gas reduction requirements in the United States. However, in June 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, also known as the Waxman-Markey Bill. The U.S. Senate’s version, The Clean Energy Jobs and American Power Act, or the Boxer-Kerry Bill, has been introduced, but has not passed. Although these bills include several differences that require reconciliation before becoming law, both bills contain the basic feature of establishing a “cap and trade” system for restricting greenhouse gas emissions in the US. Under such system, certain sources of greenhouse gas emissions would be required to obtain greenho use gas emission “allowances” corresponding to their annual emissions of greenhouse gases. The number of emission allowances issued each year would decline as necessary to meet overall emission reduction goals. As the number of greenhouse gas emission allowances declines each year, the cost or value of allowances is expected to escalate significantly. The ultimate outcome of this legislative initiative remains uncertain. In addition to the pending climate legislation, the EPA has issued greenhouse gas monitoring and reporting regulations that went into effect January 1, 2010, and require reporting by regulated facilities by March 2011 and annually thereafter. Beyond measuring and reporting, the EPA issued an “Endangerment Finding” under section 202(a) of the Clean Air Act, concluding greenhouse gas pollution threatens the public health and welfare of current and future generations. The EPA has proposed regulation that would require permits for an d reductions in greenhouse gas emissions for certain facilities, and may issue final rules this year. Several proposals are before the U.S. Congress that, if implemented, would subject the process of hydraulic fracturing to regulation under the Safe Drinking Water Act. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate natural gas production. Hydraulic fracturing is necessary to produce commercial quantities of crude oil and natural gas from many reservoirs. Such legislation could have a significant impact on the development of many oil and natural gas shale and tight sand formations. 16 Table of Contents Although it is not possible at this time to predict the final outcome of these state and federal legislative and regulatory proposals, they could adversely impact drilling activities and curtail exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and natural gas and, therefore, limit demand for our services. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock We have not paid, and do not anticipate paying, any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We do not expect to declare or pay any cash or other dividends in the foreseeable future on our common stock. Our existing credit facilities restrict our ability to pay cash dividends, and we may also enter into credit agreements or other borrowing arrangements in the future that further restrict our ability to declare or pay cash dividends on our common stock. You may experience dilution of your ownership interests due to the future issuance of additional shares of our common stock. We may in the future issue our previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders. We are currently authorized to issue 125,000,000 shares of common stock and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such designations, preferences and rights as determined by our board of directors. As of March 2, 2010, no shares of our preferred stock were outstanding, 80,128,460 shares of common stock were outstanding, and there were approximately 4.3 million shares of common stock underlying certain outstanding stock options, of which 3.9 million were exercisable within 60 days. The issuance of such additional shares of common stock would dilute the interests of our existing stockholders and issuance or potential issuance of such shares may create downward pressure on the t rading price of our common stock or affect any future potential acquisition/merger offer, if any. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, future private placements of our securities for capital raising purposes, or for other business purposes. Any such issuances would further dilute the interests of our existing stockholders. We may issue preferred stock, the terms of which could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such preferences, powers and relative participating, optional and other rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might afford holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our common stock. The Rights Agreement by and between us and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company dated November 17, 2001 ("Rights Agreement"), provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Delaware law could discourage a takeover attempt, which may reduce or eliminate the likelihood of a change of control transaction and, therefore, your ability to sell your shares for a premium. The Rights Agreement provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company. We have entered into a Rights Agreement that would cause extreme dilution to any person or group who attempts to acquire a significant interest in us without advance approval of our board of directors. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions for a classified board, limitations on the removal of directors and on stockholder proposals at meetings of stockholders and limitations on the right of stockholders to call special meetings. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Each of these factors could increase the difficulty for a third party to acquire us and, therefore, delay or prevent a change of control transaction, even if that change would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect the value of our common stock and reduce or eliminate your ability to sell your shares of common stock at a premium. 17 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, our ability to provide accurate financial statements and comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could be impaired, which could cause our stock price to decrease substantially. Effective internal control over financial reporting is essential for us to produce reliable financial reports. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. That report must contain, among other matters, an assessment of the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of the fiscal year and disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. That report must also contain a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of our system of internal accounting controls over financial reporting and our independent registered public accountin g firm is required to provide such a report. If in the future we cannot provide reliable financial information or prevent fraud or we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of the end of the then current fiscal year (or, if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to issue an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have a negative effect on our stock price and our ability to raise capital. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 