ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors That May Affect Our Future Results or the Market Price of Our Stock Our business faces significant risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations or have a negative impact on our stock price. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our enterprise license model has impacted the timing of our reported revenues. The adoption of a subscription-based license model has impacted the timing of our reported revenues. Under the enterprise license model revenues are recognized ratably over the subscription period. By contrast, our traditional perpetual license requires a majority of license revenues to be recognized in the quarter in which the products are delivered and a much smaller amount relating to the fair value of the maintenance being deferred and recognized subsequently over the maintenance period. Therefore, an order for a subscription-based license will result in lower current-quarter revenue than an equal-sized order for a perpetual license. As a result, our reported revenues have been affected by the adoption of the enterprise license model for our subscription-based products. The impact on near-term and deferred revenues will continue to depend on the rate at which customers 14 Table of Contents license products under our perpetual model or our enterprise license model. In addition, an increase in the number of subscription license renewals on multi-year terms may result in larger deferred revenues. To the extent that the adoption rate is higher than we expect, we may experience a greater decline in near-term revenues, as well as an increase in deferred revenues. If we do not successfully manage the shift in our revenues to our enterprise license model, we may not be able to manage our expenses, many of which are fixed in nature, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability. We may not continue to increase adoption of our enterprise license model. Today, the majority of our products are licensed under an enterprise license model that is based upon subscription licenses rather than our traditional perpetual licenses. There is a risk that we will not be able to continue or increase our rate of adoption to our subscription-based model, that customers may not accept the new products we offer under our enterprise license model or that they may reject the terms of the model itself. In addition, although enterprise licenses represent a potential source of renewable license revenue, there is also a risk that new and transitioned customers will not renew their licenses at the end of the term. There is a further risk that the more complex and time consuming negotiations for enterprise licenses may affect our ability to close such transactions, and that customers who purchase enterprise licenses may spend less in the aggregate over the term of the enterprise license than if they had been required to purchase perpetual licenses. Because a significant portion of our revenues continues to be derived from production licenses, we are dependent upon the ability of our customers to develop and penetrate new markets successfully. Our production license revenues depend both upon our ability to successfully negotiate production license agreements with our customers and, in turn, upon our customers’ successful commercialization of their underlying products. In particular, we derive significant revenues from customers that develop products in highly competitive and technologically complex markets such as the Internet infrastructure, server and storage, digital consumer, aerospace and defense, industrial control and automotive markets. If these customers sell fewer products or otherwise face significant economic difficulties, our revenues will decline. We cannot control our customers’ product development or commercialization or predict their success. In addition, we depend on our customers to accurately report the use of their products in order for us to collect our revenues from production licenses. If our customers are not successful with their products or do not accurately report use of their products to us, our production license revenues may decline significantly. We have adopted an open source strategy and have released products based on open source that may not be successfully adopted or may not generate profits. We offer products that are based on open source software, including our stand-alone development tool products for use with open source components, and our platform products that are distributed with open source components. We cannot be certain whether these and future open source product offerings will be successfully adopted by new and current customers and our open source strategy may create additional risks for us. Specifically, we cannot be certain that we will be able to develop the products necessary to satisfy customer demand, or that our customers will adopt our products based on open source. Additionally, even if our products are adopted by our customers, they may not be profitable. Very few open source companies have been profitable and we may not be able to generate profits on our Linux-based offerings. Moreover, it is possible that these efforts to coexist with the open source movement could result in a decline in sales of our proprietary software either as a result of a diversion of internal resources or customer preference. Additionally, customers may defer orders in anticipation of our new products. If any of these events were to occur, our revenues and earnings could be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Our open source products may subject us to increased legal risks. As our products that include open source components are adopted, we face increased legal risks, which could affect our ability to develop or sell our open source products. Our open source strategy may make us increasingly vulnerable to claims that our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights, in particular because many of the open source components we may incorporate with our products are developed by numerous independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. In addition, third parties could allege that our own development efforts considered to be proprietary have resulted in allegedly infringing work or work that is subject to open source obligations. Our risk is further exacerbated by our lack of access to unpublished software patent applications. Defending claims of infringement, even claims without significant merit, can be expensive. An adverse legal decision affecting our intellectual property could materially harm our business. It is also possible that our own intellectual property rights in derivative works we develop under the GNU General Public License (GPL) that applies to Linux and many other popular open source products, or other open source licenses, may be infringed and that as a result we may need to bring our own claim against third parties. In addition, the enforceability of the GPL and other open source licenses affect the success of our open source strategy. The GPL states that any program licensed under it may be liberally copied, modified and distributed. The GPL is a subject of litigation in the case of The SCO Group, Inc. v. International Business Machines Corp., pending in the United States District Court for the District of Utah. It is possible that this court would hold the GNU license to be unenforceable in that litigation, that the GNU license or other open source license could be found to be unenforceable in a separate legal challenge, or that someone could assert a claim for proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under them. If an open source license that applies to the licensing of components of our open source products is found to be partially or completely unenforceable, or if there are claims of infringement, we could be required to obtain licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, reengineer our products, or discontinue the sale of our products in the event reengineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis. An adverse legal decision affecting our intellectual property could materially harm our business. Uncertainty regarding the legal risks related to open source components could affect sales of our open source products generally. Finally, as result of legal concerns about open source, we are facing increased pressure from our customers to adopt additional indemnification or otherwise protect them from potential threats by third parties related to open source. We have, in limited circumstances, provided additional indemnification related to open source. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if we have to indemnify our customers from the threats posed by open source. If we do not continue to address new and rapidly changing markets and increasingly complex technologies successfully and deliver our products on a timely basis, our revenues and operating results will decline. The Device Software Optimization market is characterized by ongoing technological developments, evolving industry standards and rapid changes in customer requirements and product offerings in the device market. Our success depends upon our ability to adapt and respond to these changes in a timely and cost-effective manner. If we fail to continually update our existing products to keep them current with customer needs or to develop new or enhanced products to take advantage of new technologies, emerging standards and expanding customer requirements, our existing products could become obsolete and our financial performance would suffer. We have from time to time experienced delays in the commercial release of new technologies, new products and enhancements of existing products. These delays are commonplace in the software industry due to the complexity and unpredictability of the development work required. If we fail to commercially release new products on a regular basis, our financial performance could suffer. We must effectively market and sell new product offerings to key customers, because once a customer has designed a product with a particular operating system, that customer typically is reluctant to change its supplier due to the significant related costs. If we cannot adapt or respond in a cost-effective and timely manner to new technologies and new customer requirements, or if the new products we develop are not attractive to our customers, sales of our products could decline. 16 Table of Contents Numerous factors may cause our total revenues and net income to fluctuate significantly from period to period. These fluctuations increase the difficulty of financial planning and forecasting and may result in decreases in our available cash and declines in the market price of our stock. A number of factors, many of which are outside our control, may cause or contribute to significant fluctuations in our total revenues and net income. These fluctuations make financial planning and forecasting more difficult. In addition, these fluctuations may result in unanticipated decreases in our available cash, which could negatively impact our operations. As discussed more fully below, these fluctuations also could increase the volatility of our stock price. Factors that may cause or contribute to fluctuations in our revenues and net income include: • acceptance by our customers of our current and new product offerings; • the number and timing of orders we receive, including disproportionately higher receipt and shipment of orders in the last month of the quarter; • changes in the length of our products’ sales cycles, which increase as our customers’ purchase decisions become more strategic and are made at higher management levels; • reductions in the number of engineering projects started by our customers due to their own difficult financial or economic conditions; • the impact of impairment charges arising from past acquisitions; • the success of our customers’ products from which we derive our production license revenues; • the mix of our revenues as between sales of products that have more upfront revenue, subscriptions that have more deferred revenues and services which have lower profit margins; • our ability to control our operating expenses, and fully realize the impact of the restructuring plans we have implemented; • our ability to continue to develop, introduce and ship competitive new products and product enhancements quickly; • possible deferrals of orders by customers in anticipation of new product introductions; • announcements, product introductions and price reductions by our competitors; • our ability to manage costs for fixed-price consulting agreements; • seasonal product purchases by our customers, which historically have been higher in our fourth fiscal quarter; • the impact of, and our ability to react to, natural disasters and/or events of terrorism; • the impact of, and our ability to react to business disruptions arising from or relating to internet or computer viruses service interruptions; • changes in business cycles that affect the markets in which we sell our products and services; • economic, political and other conditions in the United States and internationally; • foreign currency exchange rates; • the impact of changes to existing accounting pronouncements relating to income taxes; and • the impact of any stock-based compensation charges arising from the issuance of stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights or any other stock-based awards. One or more of the foregoing factors may cause our operating expenses to be disproportionately high or may cause our net revenues and net income to fluctuate significantly. Results from prior periods are thus not necessarily indicative of the results of future periods. 17 Table of Contents We face intense competition in the Device Software Optimization industry, which could decrease demand for our products or cause us to reduce our prices. The Device Software Optimization industry is characterized by rapid change, new and complex technology and intense competition. Our ability to maintain our current market share depends upon our ability to satisfy customer requirements, enhance existing products and develop and introduce new products. Due to the complexity of the markets in which we operate, where our customers often develop device systems in-house, it is difficult to assess the impact of competition on our business and our related share of the markets that we operate in. We have faced increasing competition in recent years as customers have decreased research and development budgets, sought to increase the value they receive from vendors, including us, attempted to leverage a more competitive bidding process when spending research and development budgets and/or deferred or canceled projects, in whole or in part. As a result, we believe that some customers have elected not to purchase our products and have chosen to undertake such development in-house, selected solutions they perceive to be less expensive or relied upon existing licenses from us rather than making new purchases. We expect the intensity of competition to increase in the future. Increased competitiveness may result in reductions in the prices of our products, run-time royalties and services, lower-than-expected gross margins or loss of market share, any of which would harm our business. Our primary competition comes from internal research and development departments of companies that develop device systems in-house. In many cases, companies that develop device systems in-house have already made significant investments of time and effort in developing their own internal systems, making acceptance of our products as a replacement more difficult. Additionally, many of these in-house departments may increasingly choose to use open-source software, such as the Linux operating system. We also compete with independent software vendors and, to a limited extent, with open-source vendors. Some of the companies that develop device systems in-house and some of these independent software vendors, such as Microsoft Corporation, may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, sales and other resources and significantly greater name recognition than we do. Demands for rapid change and the increasing complexity of the technology in our industry intensify the competition we face. In addition, our competitors may consolidate or establish strategic alliances to expand product offerings and resources or address new market segments. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. These factors favor larger competitors that have the resources to develop new technologies or to respond more quickly with new product offerings or product enhancements. We may be unable to meet the pace of rapid development set by our competitors or may incur additional costs attempting to do so, which may cause declines in our operating results. Our competitors may foresee the course of market developments more accurately than we do and could in the future develop new technologies that compete with our products or even render our products obsolete, any of which could adversely affect our competitive position and therefore our operating results. Patent, trademark or copyright infringement, trade secret misappropriation or product liability claims against us may result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require us to expend significant resources. In addition, patent or copyright claims may require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. We occasionally receive communications from third parties alleging patent, trademark or copyright infringement, trade secret misappropriation or other intellectual property claims, and there is always the chance that third parties may assert infringement claims against us or against our customers under circumstances that might require us to provide indemnification. Adoption of our open source strategy increases this risk in part because many of the open source components we may incorporate with our products are developed by numerous independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. Additionally, because our products are increasingly used in applications, such as network infrastructure, transportation, medical and mission-critical business systems, in which the failure of the device system could cause property damage, personal injury or economic loss, we may face product liability claims. 18 Table of Contents Although our agreements with our customers contain provisions intended to limit our exposure to infringement and liability claims and typically do not provide for indemnification for open source materials, our agreements may not be effective in limiting our exposure in all circumstances. Any of these types of claims, with or without merit, could result in claims for indemnification by us or costly litigation, could require us to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or remedy product defects, cause product shipment delays or require us to pay significant damages if the claims are successful. In the case of infringement of another party’s intellectual property, we may be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements; however, we cannot be certain that the necessary licenses will be available or that they can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. If we are not successful in defending these claims or, with respect to infringement claims, were to fail to obtain royalty or licensing agreements in a timely manner and on reasonable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. The rights we rely upon to protect the intellectual property underlying our products may not be adequate, which could enable third parties to use our technology and reduce our ability to compete. Our success depends significantly upon the proprietary technology contained in our products. We currently rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, and contractual provisions to establish and protect our intellectual property rights in our technology and products. We cannot be certain that the steps we take to protect our intellectual property will adequately protect our rights, that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology, or that we can maintain our technology as trade secrets. In addition, discovery and investigation of unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. We expect software piracy, which is difficult to detect, to be a persistent problem, particularly in those foreign countries where the laws may not protect our intellectual property as fully as in the United States. Employees, consultants, and others who participate in the development of our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property. We might not have adequate remedies for infringement or breach of our proprietary rights by third parties, employees or consultants. Further, we have in the past initiated, and in the future may initiate, claims or litigation against third parties for infringement or breach of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Whether or not such litigation is determined in our favor, such actions could result in significant expenses to us, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel from productive tasks or cause product shipment delays. Our significant international business activities subject us to increased costs and economic risks. We develop and sell a substantial percentage of our products internationally. For fiscal 2006, revenues from international sales were $118.7 million, or 45% of total revenues, as compared to $106.8 million, or 45%, of total revenue for fiscal 2005. Additionally, we have investments in, or have made acquisitions of, companies located outside the United States. Over the long term, we expect to continue to make investments to further support and expand our international operations and increase our direct sales force and distribution network in EMEA, Japan and Asia Pacific. Risks inherent in international operations include: • the imposition of governmental controls and regulatory requirements; • the costs and risks of localizing products for foreign countries; • differences in business cultures and sales cycles; • differences in operation and sales support expenses; • unexpected changes in tariffs, import and export restrictions and other barriers and restrictions; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; • restrictions on repatriation of earnings; • exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates; • the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; 19 Table of Contents • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiaries and branch operations; • the costs and risks of operating in countries experiencing geopolitical conflict and/or terrorism; • the effect of our adoption of global pricing models; • difficulties in integrating products and operations from foreign acquisitions; • the impact of local health and political crises that prohibit or severely limit travel or other interaction with a local economic market; • exposure to local economic slowdowns; and • the need to guarantee credit instruments extended to support foreign operations. Any of these events, regionally and as a whole, could reduce our international sales and increase our costs of doing business internationally and have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and net operating results. If our strategic relationships are not successful, our product offerings, distribution and/or revenues may be adversely impacted. We have many strategic relationships with semiconductor companies and customers. These strategic relationships are complex because some of the companies that are our strategic partners in certain business areas are also our competitors in other business areas. Our strategic partners may also have concurrent relationships with companies that provide open-source and in-house solutions, which may put pressure on our product development roadmaps, timelines and prices. If we are not successful in developing and maintaining these strategic relationships, our business may be harmed. If our collaborative marketing and distribution agreements terminate or expire, the scope of our product offerings may be restricted, and the distribution of our products and revenues may be adversely impacted. The costs of software development can be high, and we may not realize revenues from our development efforts for a substantial period of time. Introducing new products that rapidly address changing market demands requires a continued high level of investment in research and development. Our product development and engineering expenses, which are net of funded research and development and capitalized research and development, were $65.6 million, or 25% of total revenues, for fiscal 2006 compared to $59.2 million, or 25% of total revenues, for fiscal 2005. If we are required to undertake extensive capital outlays to address changes in the device software optimization market, we may be unable to realize revenue as soon as we may expect. The costs associated with software development are increasing, including the costs of acquiring or licensing new technologies. Our investment in new and existing market opportunities prior to our ability to generate revenue from these new opportunities may adversely affect our operating results. Changes to existing accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may cause adverse revenue fluctuations and affect our results of operations or how we conduct our business. On February 1, 2006, we adopted FASB Statement 123R, “Share-Based Payment,” (“SFAS 123R”) and are now required to measure and record compensation costs for all stock-based compensation, including our stock options and employee stock purchase plan, at fair value. The adoption of SFAS No. 123R will have a material adverse impact on our gross margin, income from operations, net income, and our net income per share by decreasing our income or creating a loss by the additional amount of such stock compensation charges. Also, a change in any other accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. Other new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements or taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. 20 Table of Contents Our common stock price is subject to volatility. In recent years, the stock markets in general and the shares of technology companies in particular have experienced extreme price fluctuations. These recent price fluctuations are not necessarily proportionate to the operating performance of the companies affected. Our stock price has similarly experienced significant volatility. As reported on The NASDAQ National Market, during fiscal 2005, our stock had an intra-day high sales price of $14.77 and an intra-day low sales price of $7.87 and, during fiscal 2006, our stock had an intra-day high sales price of $17.68 and an intra-day low sales price of $11.04. In some of our past fiscal quarters, we experienced shortfalls in revenue and earnings from levels expected by securities analysts and investors, which have had an immediate and significant adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. These factors relating to the fluctuations in our revenues and net income may continue to affect our stock price. Comments by, or changes in estimates from, securities analysts as well as significant developments involving our competitors or our industry could also affect our stock price. In addition, the market price of our common stock is affected by the stock performance of other technology companies generally, as well as companies in our industry and our customers in particular. Other broad market and industry factors may negatively affect our operating results or cause our stock price to decline, as may general political or economic conditions in the United States and globally, such as recessions, or interest rate or currency fluctuations. In particular, the stock market may be adversely impacted, or experience unusual volatility, as a result of the outbreak of armed conflict or hostilities involving the United States or incidences of terrorism in, or directed at, the United States or its allies. Because certain of our customers provide products and services to U.S. Government agencies, as their supplier we may be subject to unique risks that could increase our costs and make revenue related to these customers more difficult to predict. As a subcontractor to the U.S. Government, we must comply with and are affected by certain laws and regulations related to the award, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts and other regulations particularly related to the aerospace and defense industry, such as export control regulations including International Trafficking in Arms regulations. In addition, under applicable regulations, various audit agencies of the U.S. government conduct regular audits of contractors’ compliance with a variety of U.S. government regulations and have the right to review retroactively the financial records under most U.S. government contracts. Further, as a U.S. Government subcontractor, we are subject to an increased risk of investigation, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistleblower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities to which purely private sector companies are not. This increases our internal procedures and costs, and as well we may face an increased risk of non-compliance as these processes and rules requirements involve separate processes that are outside our standard, commercial practices. In addition, our contracts with customers providing products and services to the U.S. government are subject to uncertainty since their governmental contracts are subject to U.S. government appropriations that are changeable and determined on an annual basis. Also, the U.S. government has the right to modify, curtail or terminate customer contracts, which would result in corresponding changes to our contracts with our customers. Some of our contracts are subject to contract accounting, which requires judgment relative to assessing risk, estimating contract revenues and costs and making assumptions regarding scheduling and technical issues. Because of these risks, it is difficult to predict anticipated future revenues attributable to government related subcontracts. If we do not effectively manage these risks, our operating results could be materially negatively impacted. Our restructuring plans may not enable us to achieve profitability in a difficult economic environment or achieve our business objectives. In each of fiscal 2002 through 2006, we implemented restructuring plans that were designed to align our cost structure more closely with our anticipated revenues. Our restructuring plans were based on certain 21 Table of Contents assumptions regarding the cost structure of our business and the nature and severity of the current industry adjustment and general economic trends. We cannot be certain that the assumptions underlying the restructuring plans will prove to be accurate. If they are not, our restructuring plans may not result in the correct alignment of our anticipated revenues and cost structure. Our restructuring plans involved the implementation of a number of initiatives, including headcount reductions, facilities closures, and other cost-control measures, that may adversely affect our ability to realize our current or future business objectives. As a result of the headcount reductions, we eliminated an aggregate of 1,211 employee positions since the beginning of fiscal 2002. We also recorded net restructuring charges of $1.3 million, $2.7 million and $2.2 million for fiscal 2006, fiscal 2005 and 2004, respectively. These measures may adversely affect our ability to realize our current or future business objectives. In addition, the costs actually incurred in connection with restructuring actions may exceed our estimated costs of these actions. Additional restructuring actions may result in further cash and/or non-cash charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As a result, we cannot be sure that we will continue to be profitable as a result of our restructuring plans. We have substantial financial commitments, which could make it difficult for us to obtain financing and deplete our cash reserves. Additionally, these commitments could be accelerated in certain circumstances, which could impact the timing of the impact on our cash flows. As of January 31, 2006, we had $42.2 million in outstanding indebtedness under our 3.75% convertible subordinated notes. As of January 31, 2006, we had cash and cash equivalents of $59.3 million, short-term investments of $44.0 million and long-term investments of $115.6 million. The indenture under which our convertible subordinated notes were issued contains customary events of default, and also provides that an event of default occurs if we (or one of our significant subsidiaries) fail to pay, at final maturity or upon acceleration, any indebtedness for money borrowed in an outstanding principal amount in excess of $35.0 million, and the indebtedness is not discharged, or the default is not cured, waived or rescinded within 60 days after written notice is provided in accordance with the terms of the indenture. Under the terms of our convertible subordinated notes, if an event of default were to occur for any of the aforementioned reasons or other reasons and we do not or cannot cure the event of default within specified periods, the lenders could in each case accelerate payment of the indebtedness. In June and March 2005, we repurchased $12.8 million and $20.0 million of our convertible subordinated debt, respectively. The costs associated with acquisitions and investments could disrupt our business and harm our operating results. We anticipate that, as part of our business strategy, we will continue to evaluate acquisition and investment opportunities in businesses, products and technologies that complement ours. These investments and acquisitions can be expensive and often require us to dedicate significant time and resources to the process. We have incurred significant costs in connection with acquisition transactions in prior fiscal years and may incur significant costs in connection with future transactions, whether or not they are consummated. Acquisitions involve additional risks including, among others, difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, and products of the acquired companies; diverting management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; and potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development. If we cannot successfully manage the integration of businesses we may acquire or are unable to realize the benefits of, or anticipated revenues from, our acquisitions, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. If revenues associated with acquired businesses do not meet our original expectations, acquisitions may result in charges relating to impairment of acquired goodwill and purchased intangibles. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 22 Table of Contents 