ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors That May Affect Our Future Results or the Market Price of Our Stock Our business faces significant risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations or have a negative impact on our stock price. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Continuing or worsening weakness in general economic conditions and other geopolitical factors may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our results of operations are dependent to a large extent upon the state of the global economy. We have experienced over recent quarters, and expect to continue to encounter, a number of industry and market risks and uncertainties that limit our market visibility and, consequently, our ability to predict future revenue, profitability and general financial performance, and that could create variability in our results of operations. Continuing or worsening weakness in economic conditions in North America, EMEA, Japan or the Asia Pacific region could adversely affect our customers and our results of operations and financial condition. Challenging economic conditions may decrease our customers’ demand for our products and services, including decreasing demand for our multi-year term licenses, or impair the ability of our customers to sell products incorporating our software or to pay for products and services they have purchased. As a result, our revenues could be unpredictable and may decrease and reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may also be unpredictable and increase. In order to reduce our operating costs in this challenging economic environment, we have adopted certain cost cutting measures in order to reduce employee benefits and compensation costs, including implementing a reduction in our workforce. If general economic conditions remain weak or worsen, we may be required to further reduce our workforce or take additional cost saving measures. We cannot predict whether any of the cost reduction measures that we have or may in the future undertake will be sufficient. In addition, further cost reduction measures could disrupt the productivity of our continuing workforce, or limit our ability to invest in research and development, marketing and other valuable business investments at levels we believe are beneficial to the long-term health of our business. If we are unable to effectively manage our costs and investments, our business, cash position and operating results may suffer. In addition, geopolitical factors such as terrorist activities, armed conflict or global health conditions that adversely affect the global economy may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We may incur impairments to goodwill or long-lived assets. We review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, for impairment annually in the second quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. Significant negative industry or economic trends, including a significant decline in the market price of our common stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows for our reporting units or disruptions to our business could lead to an impairment charge of our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets. If our stock 17 Table of Contents price decreases to the point where our fair value, as determined by our market capitalization, is less than our book value, this too could indicate a potential impairment and we may be required to record an impairment charge in that period. In fiscal 2009, we incurred a non-cash goodwill and other intangibles impairment charge of $12.3 million related to our Device Test business as a result of economic conditions and a rebalancing in our strategic product portfolio related to our Device Test reporting unit. See Note 2, “Acquisitions, Goodwill and Purchased Intangibles” in the notes to consolidated financial statements filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding the impairment charge related to our Device Test business. Furthermore, we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that have affected global financial markets. If the global credit market continues to deteriorate, our investment portfolio may be further affected and our investments may experience other-than-temporary declines in fair value, requiring an additional impairment charge that could adversely impact our financial results. In fiscal 2009 and 2008, we recorded other-than-temporary impairments associated with our investment portfolio totaling $1.4 million and $368,000, respectively. See Note 3, “Certain Balance Sheet Components” and Note 4, “Financial Instruments” in the notes to consolidated financial statements filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding the impairment of our investments. Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. We operate in highly competitive environments and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from results. Additionally, if our analysis results in an impairment to our goodwill, we may be required to record a charge to earnings in our financial statements during a period in which such impairment is determined to exist, which may negatively impact our results of operations. If we do not continue to address new and rapidly changing markets and increasingly complex technologies successfully, to deliver our products on a timely basis, and to offer products that are attractive to our customers, our revenues and operating results will decline. The Device Software Optimization market is characterized by ongoing technological developments, evolving industry standards and rapid changes in customer requirements and product offerings in the device market. In addition, customers developing different types of devices require different product offerings, features and functionality. If we fail to continually update our existing products to keep them current with customer needs or to develop new or enhanced products to take advantage of new technologies, emerging standards and expanding customer requirements, our existing products could become obsolete and our financial performance would suffer. Also, we have from time to time experienced delays in the commercial release of new technologies, new products and enhancements of existing products. These delays are commonplace in the software industry due to the complexity and unpredictability of the development work required. If we fail to commercially release new products on a regular and timely basis, our financial performance could suffer. We must effectively market and sell new product offerings to key customers, because once a customer has designed a product with a particular operating system, that customer typically is reluctant to change its supplier due to the significant related costs. If we cannot adapt or respond in a cost-effective and timely manner to new technologies and new customer requirements, or if the new products we develop are not attractive to our customers, sales of our products could decline. If we do not select the right areas for investment or the right vertical markets in which to concentrate our sales and marketing efforts or if we are not successful in implementing or developing new business initiatives or if new business initiatives adversely affect our other businesses, our financial performance could suffer. We regularly evaluate new products, technologies, business models and strategic business initiatives. For example, in response to growing customer interest in open-source software solutions, we began offering 18 Table of Contents open-source products and services in 2005 and our open-source business has become an increasingly important part of our business. In addition, at the beginning of fiscal year 2009, we adopted a strategic plan to focus increased engineering, sales and marketing resources in certain targeted growth product areas, including Linux platforms, Multiple Independent Levels of Security (MILS), aerospace and defense security solutions and multiprocessing capabilities. Investments in new business areas or strategic business initiatives can be expensive and time consuming and can divert management attention and internal resources away from other business opportunities. If we do not select the right areas for investment or if we are not successful in implementing or developing new business initiatives or if new business initiatives adversely affect our other businesses, our financial performance could suffer. In addition, we regularly target certain vertical markets in which we concentrate increased sales and marketing efforts. We are now concentrating increased sales and marketing efforts in certain targeted growth vertical markets, including aerospace and defense (especially MILS), network equipment, mobile handsets, industrial, in-vehicle infotainment, mobile Internet devices, and digital living. Many of these markets have experienced and may continue to experience rapid technological changes and industry consolidations and other disruptions. If we do not select the right vertical markets in which to concentrate our sales and marketing efforts or if these markets change or fail to grow as we anticipate or if we are not successful in licensing our products to customers in these targeted markets, our financial performance could suffer. If we fail to grow our open-source business, our revenues and operating results could decline or could fail to grow. As our Linux products compete with open-source software that is available publicly at little or no cost, and open source services can be performed by others, there can be no assurance that our customers will determine that our open-source products and services offer a compelling value proposition or that we will be successful in licensing our Linux products, or selling our open source services, on profitable terms. Our Linux business, including our Linux products and our open source software development services, have become an increasingly important part of our business as Linux has been increasingly adopted by device manufacturers for more device applications. We anticipate that our Linux business will be the fastest-growing part of our business in the near future. If we fail to grow our Linux business, our revenues and operating results could decline or could fail to grow as much as we anticipate, and could result in an impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets in that reportable segment. We cannot be certain whether any of our current or future open-source product offerings will be successfully adopted by new or current customers. In addition, even if our open-source products are adopted by our customers, they may not be profitable. Our open-source products compete with, among other things, open-source software that is otherwise publicly available for little or no cost. There can be no assurance that our customers will determine that our open-source products offer a compelling value proposition or that we will be successful in licensing our products on profitable terms. Very few open-source software companies have been profitable. To date, our open-source-based business has not been profitable, and we may not be able to generate profits in this business in the future. As part of our open-source strategy, we are investing in and promoting the efforts of various industry consortia and standard setting organizations, and expect that industry consolidation in support of these specific standards and software will position us well to benefit from market convergence on the standards and software that we support, in respect of both our open source product and services offerings. However, there can be no assurance that the consortia or standards organizations in which we choose to participate will be adopted by the marketplace, and if they are not we may have diverted our resources away from alternative strategies and software development that may instead become the marketplace leaders. Our strategy also anticipates that we will work closely with hardware and software partners to increase the adoption of our Linux-based products, and that we may also benefit from the development or distribution efforts these partners may provide related to our open-source products. If we are not able to successfully motivate our partners to support our open-source product development and distribution efforts, our products and services may not be adopted downstream by shared customers. 19 Table of Contents While we attempt to grow our open-source-based business, we simultaneously continue to offer our proprietary software products to the marketplace. It is possible that our efforts to grow our open-source business could result in a decline in sales of our proprietary software either as a result of a diversion of internal resources or customer preference. If such sales declines were to occur, our revenues and earnings could be adversely affected. Our open-source products and services may subject us to increased legal risks. As our products and services that are distributed with open-source software components are increasingly adopted (and as we expand our portfolio of products both through internal development and acquisition of technology, such as that acquired from Interpeak and FSMLabs), we may face increased legal risks that could affect our future ability to develop or sell our open-source products. The language of the open-source licenses that govern software we distribute with our products and services is at times ambiguous, which creates vulnerability to third-party allegations of non-compliance with terms of applicable open-source licenses. For instance, we distribute open-source software with (and in some cases incorporate open-source software into) our products and services, including certain open-source software components subject to the GPL. Distributing or combining open-source software with or into our products and services creates some risk that the GPL (or other applicable open-source software license) will be interpreted in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our products and services, including a requirement to disclose our proprietary code in source code form. We take steps to ensure that proprietary software that we do not wish to disclose in source code form is not distributed or combined with open-source software in ways that would require such proprietary software to be made subject to an open-source software license. However, few courts have interpreted open-source software licenses, and the manner in which these licenses may be interpreted and enforced remains uncertain. With the growth in our professional services and engineering efforts related to open-source software, we may become increasingly vulnerable to third-party allegations that our own development efforts or technology have resulted in infringing work or work that has unintentionally become subject to open-source obligations. As we grow and develop our open-source strategy and business, we may also become subject to challenges that other aspects of our business model or strategy do not comply with applicable open-source licenses. Even if no legal pronouncement is made, if the informal developer communities comprising the open-source software movement adopt a negative position toward our business or development efforts, they may cease their support of our company and this disruption in our relationship with the open-source software community could adversely affect our ability to effectively market and sell open-source products. Our open-source strategy may also make us increasingly vulnerable to claims that our products and services infringe third-party intellectual property rights, as many of the open-source software components we may distribute with our products and services are developed by numerous independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control and who therefore may have engaged in infringing acts while developing the open-source software without our knowledge. This risk is further exacerbated by our lack of access to unpublished software patent applications. Defending claims of infringement, even claims without significant merit, can be expensive. An adverse legal decision affecting our intellectual property could materially harm our business. In addition, it is possible that a court could hold the GPL to be unenforceable through a legal challenge, or that someone could assert a claim for proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under them. If an open-source license that applies to the licensing of components of our open-source products is found to be partially or completely unenforceable, or if there are claims of infringement, we could be required to obtain licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, reengineer our products, or discontinue the sale of our products in the event reengineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis. An adverse legal decision affecting our intellectual property or the terms upon which we license our products could materially harm our business. 20 Table of Contents Uncertainty regarding the legal risks related to open-source software components could affect sales of our open-source products and services generally. Some of our potential customers may be reluctant to incorporate open-source software into their own products if they perceive significant risks that their own software systems could become subject to GPL licensing terms. Also, as a vendor of software intended to be embedded into Linux-based devices, we may be subject to claims based on actions by our customers or device end users in their use of open-source code received from us. For instance, if our customers develop and distribute software received from us in a manner that violates GPL licensing terms or infringes third party intellectual property rights, we may be subject to legal claims under such theories as contributory infringement, inducing infringement or vicarious liability. Finally, as a result of legal concerns about open-source software, we are facing increased pressure from our customers to adopt additional indemnification or otherwise protect them from potential threats by third parties related to open-source software. We have in the past agreed to indemnify certain of our customers against certain potential liabilities associated with our open-source products and services and we may decide to revise or expand our indemnification policies and practices in the future to address customer requirements. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if we have to indemnify our customers for the liabilities posed by open-source software. Our mix of licensing models and professional services revenues impacts the timing of our reported revenues, and our inability to accurately manage the volume of business expected for each licensing model and the relative mix of professional services revenues could increase fluctuations in our revenue and financial results. Because we license our development products under business models that recognize revenue differently, the rate of adoption of license models by our customers impacts the timing of our reported revenues. Under our subscription license model, revenues are recognized ratably over the subscription period. By contrast, our perpetual and term license models require a majority of license revenues to be recognized in the quarter in which the products are delivered and a smaller amount relating to the fair value of the maintenance is deferred and recognized subsequently over the maintenance period. An order for a subscription-based license will result in lower current-quarter revenue than an equal-sized order for a perpetual or term license. As a result, our reported revenues are affected by the selection of license model type by our customers. In addition, our ability to recognize revenues can be deferred when a transaction includes multiple elements. There is a risk that we will not be able to continue or increase our rate of adoption of our subscription-based, perpetual-based or term-based license models, or that we may choose to focus our sales efforts and resources on particular, significant perpetual, term or subscription license opportunities that may or may not result in a sale. Although we have experienced an increase in the adoption of our term license model in the past year, the adoption of the term license model may not continue to increase at the same rate in the future either due to the current macroeconomic environment or otherwise. The impact on revenues and deferred revenues will continue to depend on the rate at which customers license products under our perpetual, term or subscription license models or under multiple element arrangements. If we are unable to manage the rate of adoption of our license models by our customers at any time, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be negatively affected. In addition, although our subscription licenses represent a potential source of renewable license revenue, there is also a risk that customers will not renew their licenses at the end of the subscription term. There is a further risk that the more complex and time consuming negotiations required for subscription licenses may affect our ability to close such transactions, and that customers who purchase subscription licenses may spend less in the aggregate over the term of the subscription license than if they had been required to purchase perpetual licenses. In addition, an increase in the number of subscription license renewals or multi-year terms may result in larger deferred revenues. To the extent that the subscription licensing rate is higher than we expect, we may experience a larger decline in revenues, as well as an increase in deferred revenues. 21 Table of Contents Because a significant portion of our revenues continues to be derived from production licenses, we are dependent upon the ability of our customers to develop and penetrate new markets successfully. Our production license revenues depend both upon our ability to successfully negotiate production license agreements with our customers and, in turn, upon our customers’ successful commercialization of their underlying products. As our open-source business grows, we may not be able to rely on receiving per unit fees from our customers. For our open-source business, we may instead need to rely on other fees to compensate for the production license fees that we have traditionally received for our proprietary products. Also, we derive significant revenues from customers that develop products in highly competitive and technologically complex markets such as the internet infrastructure, server and storage, digital consumer, aerospace and defense, industrial control and automotive markets. If these customers sell fewer products or otherwise face significant economic difficulties, particularly in the current global economic recession, our revenues will decline. In addition, if customers elect to purchase fewer up-front production licenses and buyout block purchases and choose instead to pay quarterly in-arrears, this may impact our revenues in certain quarters. We cannot control our customers’ product development or commercialization or predict their success. In addition, we depend upon our customers to accurately report the use of their products in order for us to collect our revenues from production licenses. Our license compliance group also works with our customers to ensure accurate reporting and payment of fees. Revenue from our license compliance activity fluctuates from quarter to quarter. If our customers are not successful with their products or do not accurately report use of their products to us, our production license revenues may decline significantly. Demand for, and delivery of, our professional services is increasingly important to our business, and if we are not successful at managing this aspect of our business, our revenues and financial results will be negatively impacted. Demand for our professional services has been increasing over time, and in particular reflects increased interest and demand for our open source development services, services related to open source industry-related alliances and consortia, and services engagements that lead to related product licensing revenue. This has also led to an increase in the past year in the number of larger, services engagements based on fixed price services contracts. In order to meet expected demand for our services, in recent years we have expanded our professional services capabilities by adding personnel in growth vertical markets and lower cost regions through the acquisition of MIZI Research, Inc. and S.C Comsys S.R.L. If the demand for our services does not continue to grow due to a challenging macroeconomic environment, or if we do not have the expertise, capacity or optimized business models required to meet the quickly evolving demands of key growth vertical markets and open source software and standards development, our revenues and financial results will be negatively impacted. In addition, our financial results may be impacted if due to a decrease in demand we are unable to fully utilize our professional services headcount or if we are forced to accept services engagements with lower profit margins. Revenues from service engagements are generally recognized when the contracted services are performed and contracted future revenue from services engagements is included in deferred revenue and/or services backlog. Services backlog is not recorded on our consolidated balance sheets. In addition, the relative size of our services revenues as compared to our other revenues can affect our operating margins and earnings as we typically realize smaller gross margins on earnings generated from services engagements than earnings derived from licenses of our software solutions. Numerous factors may cause our total revenues and net income to fluctuate significantly from period to period. These fluctuations increase the difficulty of financial planning and forecasting and may result in decreases in our available cash and declines in the market price of our stock. A number of factors, many of which are outside our control, may cause or contribute to significant fluctuations in our total revenues and net income. These fluctuations make financial planning and forecasting more difficult. In addition, these fluctuations may result in unanticipated decreases in our available cash, which 22 Table of Contents could negatively impact our operations. As discussed more fully below, these fluctuations also could increase the volatility of our stock price. We have experienced over recent quarters, and expect to continue to encounter, a number of industry and market risks and uncertainties that limit our market visibility and, consequently, our ability to predict future revenue, profitability and general financial performance, and that could create variability in our results of operations. Factors that may cause or contribute to fluctuations in our revenues and net income include: • acceptance by our customers of our current and new product offerings; • the number and timing of orders we receive, including disproportionately higher receipt and shipment of orders in the last month of the quarter; • changes in the length of our products’ sales cycles, which increase as our customers’ purchase decisions become more strategic and are made at higher management levels; • reductions in the number of engineering projects started by our customers due to their own difficult financial or economic conditions; • the impact of impairment charges arising from past acquisitions; • the success of our customers’ products from which we derive our production license revenues; • the mix of our revenues as between sales of products that have more upfront revenue, subscriptions that have more deferred revenues and services which have lower profit margins; • our ability to control our operating expenses, and fully realize the impact of the restructuring plans we have implemented; • our ability to continue to develop, introduce and ship competitive new products and product enhancements quickly; • possible deferrals of orders by customers in anticipation of new product introductions; • announcements, product introductions and price reductions by our competitors; • our ability to manage costs for fixed-price consulting agreements; • seasonal product purchases by our customers; • the financial condition of our customers, which could result in a lower demand for our products and services; • the impact of, and our ability to react to, natural disasters and/or events of terrorism; • the impact of, and our ability to react to, business disruptions arising from or relating to internet service interruptions or computer viruses; • changes in business cycles that affect the markets in which we sell our products and services; • economic, political and other conditions in the United States and internationally; • foreign currency exchange rates; • the impact of changes to existing accounting pronouncements; and • the impact of any stock-based compensation charges arising from the issuance of stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights or any other stock-based awards. One or more of the foregoing factors may cause our operating expenses to be disproportionately high or may cause our net revenues and net income to fluctuate significantly. Results from prior periods are thus not necessarily indicative of the results of future periods. 23 Table of Contents We face intense competition in the Device Software Optimization industry, which could decrease demand for our products or cause us to reduce our prices. The Device Software Optimization industry is characterized by rapid change, new and complex technology and intense competition. Our ability to maintain our current market share depends upon our ability to satisfy customer requirements, enhance existing products and develop and introduce new products. Due to the complexity of the markets in which we operate, where our customers often develop device systems in-house, it is difficult to assess the impact of competition on our business and our related share of these markets. We have faced increasing competition in recent years as customers have decreased research and development budgets, sought to increase the value they receive from vendors, including us, attempted to leverage a more competitive bidding process when spending research and development budgets and/or deferred or canceled projects, in whole or in part. As a result, we believe that some customers have elected not to purchase our products and have chosen to undertake such development in-house, selected solutions they perceive to be less expensive or relied upon existing licenses from us rather than making new purchases. We expect the intensity of competition to increase in the future. Increased competitiveness may result in reductions in the prices of our products, royalties and services, lower-than-expected gross margins or loss of market share, any of which would harm our business. Our primary competition comes from internal research and development departments of companies that develop device systems in-house. In many cases, companies that develop device systems in-house have already made significant investments of time and effort in developing their own internal systems, making acceptance of our products as a replacement more difficult. Additionally, many of these in-house departments may increasingly choose to use open-source software, such as the Linux operating system. We also compete with independent software vendors and, to a limited extent, with open-source software vendors. Some of the companies that develop device systems in-house and some of these independent software vendors, such as Microsoft Corporation, have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, sales and other resources and significantly greater name recognition than we do. Demands for rapid change and the increasing complexity of the technology in our industry intensify the competition we face. In addition, our competitors may consolidate or establish strategic alliances to expand product offerings and resources or address new market segments. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. These factors favor larger competitors that have the resources to develop new technologies or to respond more quickly with new product offerings or product enhancements. We may be unable to meet the pace of rapid development set by our competitors or may incur additional costs attempting to do so, which may cause declines in our operating results. Our competitors may foresee the course of market developments more accurately than we do and could in the future develop new technologies that compete with our products or even render our products obsolete, any of which could adversely affect our competitive position and therefore our operating results. Our significant international business activities subject us to increased costs and other risks. We develop and sell a substantial percentage of our products internationally. For fiscal years ended January 31, 2009 and 2008, revenues from international sales were $173.3 million, or 48% of total revenues, and $149.6 million, or 46% of total revenues, respectively. Additionally, we have investments in, or have made acquisitions of, companies located outside the United States. Over the long term, we expect to continue to make investments to further support and expand our international operations and increase our direct sales force and distribution network in EMEA, Japan and the Asia Pacific region. In particular, we intend to increase significantly our engineering and professional services resources in China, Korea, Romania and Canada. Risks inherent in international operations include: • the imposition of governmental controls and regulatory requirements; • the costs and risks of localizing products for foreign countries; • differences in business cultures and sales cycles; 24 Table of Contents • differences in operation and sales support expenses; • unexpected changes in tariffs, import and export restrictions and other barriers and restrictions; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; • other increased costs of doing business; • restrictions on repatriation of earnings; • exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates; • the costs and difficulties associated with complying with a variety of foreign laws and domestic laws applicable to foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • difficulties in operating our business in compliance with local labor laws; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiaries and branch operations; • increased risks of intellectual property infringement and less stringent intellectual property protection laws; • the costs and risks of operating in countries experiencing geopolitical conflict and/or terrorism; • the effect of our adoption of global pricing models; • difficulties in integrating products and operations from foreign acquisitions; • the impact of local health and political crises that prohibit or severely limit travel or other interaction with a local economic market; • exposure to local economic slowdowns; and • the need to guarantee credit instruments extended to support foreign operations. Any of these events, regionally and as a whole, could reduce our international sales and increase our costs of doing business internationally and have a material adverse effect on our gross profit and net operating results. Patent, trademark or copyright infringement, trade secret misappropriation, product liability or professional liability claims against us may result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require us to expend significant resources. In addition, patent or copyright claims may require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. We occasionally receive communications from third parties alleging patent, trademark or copyright infringement, trade secret misappropriation or other intellectual property claims, and there is always the chance that third parties may assert infringement claims against us or against our customers under circumstances that might require us to provide indemnification. Growth of our open-source business increases this risk in part because many of the open-source software components that we may incorporate into or distribute with our products are developed by numerous independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. Additionally, because our products are increasingly used in applications, such as network infrastructure, transportation, medical and mission-critical business systems, in which the failure of the device system could cause property damage, personal injury or economic loss, we may face product liability or professional liability claims. For example, we are defendants in a suit filed by RED.Com, Inc. (“RED”) relating to certain design services that we provided to RED. For additional information regarding this lawsuit, see Part I, ITEM 3, Legal Proceedings. Although our agreements with our customers contain provisions intended to limit our exposure to infringement and liability claims, our agreements may not be effective in limiting our exposure in all circumstances. Any of these types of claims, with or without merit, could result in claims for indemnification by us or costly litigation, could require us to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or 25 Table of Contents remedy product defects, cause product shipment delays or require us to pay significant damages if the claims are successful. In the case of infringement of another party’s intellectual property, we may be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements; however, we cannot be certain that the necessary licenses will be available or that they can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. If we are not successful in defending these claims or, with respect to infringement claims, were to fail to obtain royalty or licensing agreements in a timely manner and on reasonable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. The rights upon which we rely to protect the intellectual property underlying our products may not be adequate, which could enable third parties to use our technology without our permission and reduce our ability to compete. Our success with our proprietary products depends significantly upon the intellectual property rights embodied in our products. We currently rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, and contractual provisions to establish and protect our intellectual property rights in our technology and products. We cannot be certain that the steps that we take to protect our intellectual property will adequately protect our rights, that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology, or that we can maintain our technology as trade secrets. In addition, discovery and investigation of unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. We expect software piracy, which is difficult to detect, to be a persistent problem, particularly in those foreign countries where the laws may not protect our intellectual property as fully as in the United States. The risks that we face may increase as we conduct more research and development activities in China, Korea, Romania, Israel and other foreign countries. Employees, consultants, and others who participate in the development of our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property. We might not have adequate remedies for infringement or breach of our proprietary rights by third parties, employees or consultants. Further, we have in the past initiated, and in the future may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement or breach of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Whether or not such litigation is determined in our favor, such actions could result in significant expenses to us, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel from productive tasks or cause product shipment delays. The costs associated with acquisitions and investments could disrupt our business and harm our operating results. We anticipate that, as part of our business strategy, we will continue to evaluate acquisition and investment opportunities in businesses, products and technologies that complement ours. For example, in October 2008, we acquired 99% of the outstanding shares of MIZI Research, Inc., a privately held Korean company, and, in February 2009, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Tilcon Software Limited, a privately held Canadian company. These investments and acquisitions can be expensive and often require us to dedicate significant time and resources to the process. We have incurred significant costs in connection with acquisition transactions in prior fiscal years and may incur significant costs in connection with future transactions, whether or not they are consummated. Acquisitions involve additional risks including, among others, difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, and products of the acquired companies; diverting management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; and potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development. If we cannot successfully manage the integration of businesses we may acquire or are unable to realize the benefits of, or anticipated revenues from, our acquisitions, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. If revenues associated with acquired businesses do not meet our original expectations, acquisitions may result in charges relating to impairment of acquired goodwill and purchased intangibles. 26 Table of Contents If our strategic relationships are not successful, our product offerings, distribution and/or revenues may be adversely impacted. We have many strategic relationships with semiconductor companies, circuit board manufacturers, system manufacturers, other software companies, customers and others. In addition, we are playing an increasingly active and important role in open-source development projects and industry consortia. These strategic relationships and industry consortia are complex. Some of the companies that are our strategic partners in certain business areas or industry consortia are also our competitors in some business areas. Our strategic partners may also have concurrent relationships with other companies that provide open-source, proprietary or in-house solutions, which may put pressure on our product development roadmaps, timelines and prices. If we are not successful in developing and maintaining these strategic relationships, our business may be harmed. If our collaborative marketing and distribution agreements terminate or expire, the scope of our product offerings may be restricted, and the distribution of our products and our revenues may be adversely impacted. The costs of software development can be high, and we may not realize revenues from our development efforts for a substantial period of time. Introducing new products that rapidly address changing market demands requires a continued high level of investment in research and development. If we are required to undertake extensive capital outlays to address changes in the device software optimization market, we may be unable to realize revenue as soon as we may expect. The costs associated with software development are increasing, including the costs of acquiring or licensing new technologies. Our investment in new and existing market opportunities prior to our ability to generate revenue from these new opportunities, if we are able to capitalize on these opportunities at all, may adversely affect our operating results. Because certain of our customers provide products and services to U.S. Government agencies, as their supplier we may be subject to unique risks that could increase our costs and make revenue related to these customers more difficult to predict. As a subcontractor to the U.S. Government, we must comply with and are affected by certain laws and regulations related to the award, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts and other regulations particularly related to the aerospace and defense industry, such as export control regulations including International Traffic in Arms Regulations. In addition, under applicable regulations, various audit agencies of the U.S. government conduct regular audits of contractors’ compliance with a variety of U.S. government regulations and have the right to review retroactively the financial records under most U.S. government contracts. Further, as a U.S. Government subcontractor, we are subject to an increased risk of investigation, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistleblower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities to which purely private sector companies are not. This increases our internal procedures and costs, and as well, we may face an increased risk of non-compliance as these requirements involve separate processes that are outside our standard, commercial practices. In addition, our contracts with customers providing products and services to the U.S. government are subject to uncertainty since their governmental contracts are subject to U.S. government appropriations that are changeable and determined on an annual basis. Also, the U.S. government has the right to modify, curtail or terminate customer contracts, which would result in corresponding changes to our contracts with our customers. Some of our contracts are subject to contract accounting, which requires judgment relative to assessing risk, estimating contract revenues and costs and making assumptions regarding scheduling and technical issues. Because of these risks, it is difficult to predict anticipated future revenues attributable to government related subcontracts. If we do not effectively manage these risks, our operating results could be materially negatively impacted. 27 Table of Contents If we lose key personnel or are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, our business may be harmed. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of key management, engineering, sales and other personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. We believe our future success will also depend, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and other personnel, and upon the ability of management to operate effectively, both individually and as a group, in geographically disparate locations. In addition, reductions in force or reductions in employee benefits could potentially make attracting and retaining qualified employees more difficult in the future. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and sales personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and negatively affect our ability to sell our products. In addition, companies in the software industry whose employees accept positions with competitors may claim that their competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices or that there will be inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information. We may be subject to such claims in the future as we seek to hire additional qualified personnel. Such claims could result in material litigation. As a result, we could incur substantial costs in defending against these claims, regardless of their merits, and be subject to additional restrictions if any such litigation is not resolved in our favor. Changes to existing accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may cause adverse revenue fluctuations and affect our results of operations or how we conduct our business. A change in any accounting pronouncements, such as the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations, effective in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, or taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements or taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements or taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. The complexity of accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies, particularly those related to revenue recognition, could materially affect our financial results for a given period. Although we use standardized agreements designed to meet current revenue recognition criteria under generally accepted accounting principles, we must often negotiate and revise terms and conditions of these standardized agreements, particularly in multi-element license and services transactions. As our transactions have increased in complexity, particularly with the sale of larger, multi-element transactions, negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions may require us to defer recognition of revenue on such licenses. For example, we believe that we are in compliance with Statement of Position 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, as amended; however, more complex, multi-element transactions require additional accounting analysis to account for them accurately. Errors in such analysis in any period could lead to unanticipated changes in our revenue accounting practices and may affect the timing of revenue recognition, which could adversely affect our financial results for any given period. If we discover that we have interpreted and applied revenue recognition rules differently than prescribed by generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S., we could be required to devote significant management resources, and incur the expense associated with an audit, restatement or other examination of our financial statements. Business interruptions could adversely affect our business. Our operations and the operations of our vendors and customers are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure and other events beyond our control. For example, a substantial portion of our facilities, including our corporate headquarters, is located near major earthquake faults. In the event of a major earthquake, we could experience business interruptions, destruction of facilities and loss 28 Table of Contents of life. We do not carry earthquake insurance and we have not set aside funds or reserves to cover such potential earthquake-related losses. In the event that a material business interruption occurs that affects us or our vendors or customers, shipments could be delayed and our business and financial results could be harmed. Our common stock price is subject to volatility. In recent years, the stock markets in general and the shares of technology companies in particular have experienced extreme price fluctuations. These recent price fluctuations are not necessarily proportionate to the operating performance of the companies affected. Our stock price has similarly experienced significant volatility. As reported on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, during fiscal year 2009, our stock had an intra-day high sales price of $12.99 and an intra-day low sales price of $6.07. In some of our past fiscal quarters, we experienced shortfalls in revenue and earnings from levels expected by securities analysts and investors, which have had an immediate and significant adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. These factors relating to the fluctuations in our revenues and net income may continue to affect our stock price. Comments by, or changes in estimates from, securities analysts as well as significant developments involving our competitors or our industry could also affect our stock price. In addition, the market price of our common stock is affected by the stock performance of other technology companies generally, as well as companies in our industry and our customers in particular. Other broad market and industry factors may negatively affect our operating results or cause our stock price to decline, as may general political or economic conditions in the United States and globally, such as recessions, or interest rate or currency fluctuations. Over the past six months, the U.S. and international stock market indices have experienced significant declines, and these general market trends have adversely impacted the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, the stock market may be adversely impacted, or experience unusual volatility, as a result of the outbreak of armed conflict or hostilities involving the United States or incidences of terrorism in, or directed at, the United States or its allies. Provisions in our charter documents, customer agreements, and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of Wind River, which could hinder stockholders’ ability to receive a premium for our stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or consolidation that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; and • requiring super-majority voting to effect amendments to certain provisions of Wind River’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Certain provisions of Delaware law also may discourage, delay, or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us, and our agreements with certain of our customers require that we give prior notice of a change of control. Our various anti-takeover provisions could prevent or delay a change in control of the Company, which could hinder stockholders’ ability to receive a premium for our stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 