Risk Factors—Factors That May Affect Our Future Results or the Market Price of Our Stock”). Executive Officers of the Registrant The names of our executive officers, their ages as of March 31, 2008, and their positions are shown below: Name Age Title Kenneth R. Klein 48 Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer Ian R. Halifax 47 Senior Vice President of Finance and Administration, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary Damian Artt 44 Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Services Jane E. Bone 42 Chief Accounting Officer John J. Bruggeman 46 Chief Marketing Officer Barry Mainz 44 Chief Operating Officer Scot K. Morrison 45 Senior Vice President and General Manager, VxWorks Division Vincent Rerolle 45 Senior Vice President and General Manager, Linux Division Kenneth R. Klein has been a director of Wind River since July 2003. In January 2004, he became the Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Wind River. Prior to joining Wind River, Mr. Klein was with Mercury Interactive Corporation, a software company focused on business technology optimization, where he served as Chief Operating Officer from January 2000 until December 2003. He also served at Mercury Interactive as a director from July 2000 until December 2003 and held management positions there from 1992 through 1999, including President of North American Operations and Vice President of North American Sales. Mr. Klein serves on the Board of Directors of Tumbleweed Communications Corp., a provider of messaging solutions, and is a director of several privately-held companies. Mr. Klein holds a BS degree in electrical engineering and biomedical engineering from the University of Southern California. Ian R. Halifax joined Wind River as its Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary in February 2007. From January 2005 until February 2006, Mr. Halifax served as Chief Financial Officer of Micromuse Inc., a provider of business and service assurance solutions to telecommunications companies, financial organizations and governmental institutions worldwide. Following IBM Corporation’s acquisition of Micromuse in February 2006, Mr. Halifax served as a transition executive in 14 Table of Contents IBM’s Tivoli Software unit until he joined Wind River. From October 1999 to January 2005, he was Chief Financial Officer and Secretary at Macrovision Corporation, a developer and licensor of copy protection, electronic licensing and digital rights management technologies. Mr. Halifax is a Certified Public Accountant and a Certified Management Accountant. He holds a BA degree in English and Related Literature from University of York in the United Kingdom and an MBA in Finance from Henley Management College, Oxfordshire, UK. Damian Artt was appointed Wind River’s Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Services in February 2007. Mr. Artt joined Wind River in 2004 as our Vice President of Worldwide Services. Prior to joining Wind River, Mr. Artt spent eleven years at Cadence Design Systems, a software company, in various sales leadership positions. Mr. Artt has a degree in Electrical Engineering from Queen’s University in Belfast, Northern Ireland. Jane E. Bone has served as our Chief Accounting Officer since February 2007. Prior to her appointment as CAO, she served as the Company’s Corporate Controller since 2000 and, in addition, as Vice President, Finance, since 2005. Ms. Bone joined Wind River as part of its acquisition in February 2000 of Integrated Systems, Inc., where she spent three years serving as the European and International Controller. She has also held positions in the United States and the United Kingdom at Deloitte Haskins & Sells and Coopers & Lybrand LLP. Ms. Bone earned a BS (Econ.) Hons. in Accounting degree from University of Hull, United Kingdom. John J. Bruggeman joined Wind River in February 2004 and currently serves as Chief Marketing Officer. From May 2002 until January 2004, Mr. Bruggeman was Vice President of Marketing at Mercury Interactive Corporation, a software company focused on business technology optimization. Mr. Bruggeman earned a BS degree in Statistics and Computer Science from San Jose State University and an MS degree in Mathematics from the University of Connecticut. Barry Mainz was appointed our Chief Operating Officer in February 2007. Mr. Mainz joined Wind River in June 2005 as our Vice President, Worldwide Customer Service, and since July 2005, has acted as the Company’s Vice President, Worldwide Customer Operations. From 1999 until he joined Wind River, Mr. Mainz served as Vice President, Corporate Sales Division, for Mercury Interactive Corporation. Mr. Mainz holds a BA degree in Communications from San Francisco State University. Scot K. Morrison was appointed Senior Vice President and General Manager, VxWorks Division in February 2008. He previously held other management positions at Wind River including Senior Vice President of Engineering and Vice President and General Manager of several different business units. Mr. Morrison joined Wind River as part of its acquisition of Integrated Systems, Inc. in February 2000. Mr. Morrison earned his Bachelor of Applied Science degree in Engineering from the University of Toronto, as well as his master’s degree at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, specializing in control systems. Vincent Rerolle joined Wind River in November 2006 as our Vice President of Corporate Development and Strategy, where he was responsible for mergers and acquisitions, strategic partnerships and alliances, and he was appointed Senior Vice President and General Manager, Linux Division in February 2008. From 2001 until he joined Wind River, Mr. Rerolle was Vice President of Corporate Development at Mercury Interactive Corporation, where he was responsible for mergers and acquisitions, business development and technology alliances. Mr. Rerolle has also held various management positions at Citadon, McKinsey, Vivendi and Sagem, in the United States, France and Australia. He holds a BS degree in engineering from ENST Paris and an MBA from INSEAD. Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Areas For financial information regarding segments and geographic areas, see Note 13, “Segment and Geographic Information,” in the notes to consolidated financial Statements, filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 15 Table of Contents Available Information We file our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with the SEC electronically. The public may read or copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is http://www.sec.gov. You may obtain a free copy of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports on the day of filing with the SEC on or through our website at http://www.windriver.com or by contacting the Investor Relations Department at our corporate offices by calling (866) 296-5361. We are not incorporating by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K any information from our website. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors That May Affect Our Future Results or the Market Price of Our Stock Our business faces significant risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations or have a negative impact on our stock price. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. If we do not continue to address new and rapidly changing markets and increasingly complex technologies successfully, to deliver our products on a timely basis, and to offer products that are attractive to our customers, our revenues and operating results will decline. The Device Software Optimization market is characterized by ongoing technological developments, evolving industry standards and rapid changes in customer requirements and product offerings in the device market. In addition, customers developing different types of devices require different product offerings, features and functionality. If we fail to continually update our existing products to keep them current with customer needs or to develop new or enhanced products to take advantage of new technologies, emerging standards and expanding customer requirements, our existing products could become obsolete and our financial performance would suffer. Also, we have from time to time experienced delays in the commercial release of new technologies, new products and enhancements of existing products. These delays are commonplace in the software industry due to the complexity and unpredictability of the development work required. If we fail to commercially release new products on a regular and timely basis, our financial performance could suffer. We must effectively market and sell new product offerings to key customers, because once a customer has designed a product with a particular operating system, that customer typically is reluctant to change its supplier due to the significant related costs. If we cannot adapt or respond in a cost-effective and timely manner to new technologies and new customer requirements, or if the new products we develop are not attractive to our customers, sales of our products could decline. If we do not select the right areas for investment or the right vertical markets in which to concentrate our sales and marketing efforts or if we are not successful in implementing or developing new business initiatives or if new business initiatives adversely affect our other businesses, our financial performance could suffer. We regularly evaluate new products, technologies, business models and strategic business initiatives. For example, in response to growing customer interest in open-source software solutions, we began offering open- source products and services in 2005 and our open-source business has become an increasingly important part of 16 Table of Contents our business. In addition, at the beginning of fiscal year 2009, we adopted a strategic plan to focus increased engineering, sales and marketing resources in certain targeted growth product areas, including Linux platforms, device management solutions, MILS aerospace and defense security solutions and multiprocessing capabilities. See “Item 1. Business – Our Strategy.” Investments in new business areas or strategic business initiatives can be expensive and time consuming and can divert management attention and internal resources away from other business opportunities. If we do not select the right areas for investment or if we are not successful in implementing or developing new business initiatives or if new business initiatives adversely affect our other businesses, our financial performance could suffer. In addition, we regularly target certain vertical markets in which we concentrate increased sales and marketing efforts. We are now concentrating increased sales and marketing efforts in certain targeted growth vertical markets, including aerospace and defense (especially MILS), network equipment, mobile handsets, industrial, automotive infotainment, mobile Internet devices, and digital living. See “Item 1. Business – Our Strategy.” Many of these markets have experienced and may continue to experience rapid technological changes and industry consolidations and other disruptions. If we do not select the right vertical markets in which to concentrate our sales and marketing efforts or if these markets change or fail to grow as we anticipate or if we are not successful in licensing our products to customers in these targeted markets, our financial performance could suffer. Our adoption of a reorganization plan may cause disruptions in our business and operations and will result in restructuring and other charges. In fiscal year 2008, our organization was structured along functional lines. At the beginning of our fiscal year 2009, we adopted a reorganization plan to better align our resources with our strategic business objectives. As part of this reorganization plan, we reorganized our operations into four product divisions: VxWorks, Linux, Tools and Device Management. This realignment was designed to help us focus on new technology and market opportunities, to become more nimble and agile with customers and partners, and to drive and measure returns on our investments. As a result of this reorganization, engineering, product management, and test personnel were allocated among the four product divisions, while sales, marketing, and other operational and support staff remain organized along functional lines. This management reorganization may divert the attention of some of our management from business and operational issues and may affect product development or marketing plans or schedules. If we did not choose the correct strategy and investments for our reorganization, or if we are unable to execute effectively on the new strategy and organizational structure, we may not be able to meet the needs of our customers and partners for products and services. We must effectively manage the implementation of our new organizational structure to avoid any resulting confusion or conflict that might affect our ability to respond to our customers and partners in a nimble and agile manner, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. As part of this reorganization plan, we expect to reduce our workforce by approximately 80 to 90 positions during the first quarter of fiscal year 2009, although we plan to increase our staffing levels over the course of fiscal year 2009, particularly in China and Eastern Europe. We expect to incur total charges ranging from $3.0 million to $4.0 million in connection with this reorganization plan. Substantially all of the charges will relate to cash severance costs and a substantial majority of the charges will be incurred in the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 ending April 30, 2008. If we fail to grow our open-source business, our revenues and operating results could decline or could fail to grow. As our Linux products compete with open-source software that is available publicly at little or no cost, there can be no assurance that our customers will determine that our open-source products offer a compelling value proposition or that we will be successful in licensing our Linux products on profitable terms. We have been offering Linux platforms since 2005. Our Linux platform business has become an increasingly important part of our business as Linux has been increasingly adopted by device manufacturers for 17 Table of Contents more device applications and as growth in our proprietary VxWorks business has slowed. We anticipate that our Linux business will be the fastest-growing part of our business in the near future. If we fail to grow our Linux business, our revenues and operating results could decline or could fail to grow as much as we anticipate. We cannot be certain whether any of our current or future open-source product offerings will be successfully adopted by new or current customers. In addition, even if our open-source products are adopted by our customers, they may not be profitable. Our open-source products compete with, among other things, open-source software that is otherwise publicly available for little or no cost. There can be no assurance that our customers will determine that our open-source products offer a compelling value proposition or that we will be successful in licensing our products on profitable terms. Very few open-source software companies have been profitable. To date, our open-source-based business has not been profitable, and we may not be able to generate profits in this business in the future. As part of our open-source strategy, we are investing in and promoting the efforts of various industry consortia and standard setting organizations, and expect that industry consolidation in support of these specific standards and software will position us well to benefit from market convergence on the standards and software that we support. However, there can be no assurance that the consortia or standards organizations in which we choose to participate will be adopted by the marketplace, and if they are not we may have diverted our resources away from alternative strategies and product development that may instead become the marketplace leaders. Our strategy also anticipates that we will work closely with hardware and software partners to increase the adoption of our Linux-based products, and that we may also benefit from the development or distribution efforts these partners may provide related to our open-source products. If we are not able to successfully motivate our partners to support our open-source product development and distribution efforts, our products and services may not be adopted downstream by shared customers. While we attempt to grow our open-source-based business, we simultaneously continue to offer our proprietary software products to the marketplace. It is possible that our efforts to grow our open-source business could result in a decline in sales of our proprietary software either as a result of a diversion of internal resources or customer preference. If such sales declines were to occur, our revenues and earnings could be adversely affected. Our open-source products may subject us to increased legal risks. As our products that are distributed with open-source software components are increasingly adopted (and as we expand our portfolio of products both through internal development and acquisition of technology, such as that acquired from Interpeak and FSMLabs), we may face increased legal risks that could affect our future ability to develop or sell our open-source products. The language of the open-source licenses that govern software we distribute with our products is at times ambiguous, which creates vulnerability to third-party allegations of non-compliance with terms of applicable open-source licenses. For instance, we distribute open-source software with (and in some cases incorporate open-source software into) our products, including certain open-source software components subject to the GPL. Distributing or combining open-source software with or into our products creates some risk that the GPL (or other applicable open-source software license) will be interpreted in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our products, including a requirement to disclose our own products in source code form. We take steps to ensure that proprietary software that we do not wish to disclose in source code form is not distributed or combined with open-source software in ways that would require such proprietary software to be made subject to an open-source software license. However, few courts have interpreted open-source software licenses, and the manner in which these licenses may be interpreted and enforced remains uncertain. With the growth in our professional services and engineering efforts related to open-source software, we may become increasingly vulnerable to third-party allegations that our own development efforts or technology have resulted in infringing work or work that has unintentionally become subject to open-source obligations. As we grow and 18 Table of Contents develop our open-source strategy and business, we may also become subject to challenges that other aspects of our business model or strategy do not comply with applicable open-source licenses. Even if no legal pronouncement is made, if the informal developer communities comprising the open-source software movement adopt a negative position toward our business or development efforts, they may cease their support of our company and this disruption in our relationship with the open-source software community could adversely affect our ability to effectively market and sell open-source products. Our open-source strategy may also make us increasingly vulnerable to claims that our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights, as many of the open-source software components we may distribute with our products are developed by numerous independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control and who therefore may have engaged in infringing acts while developing the open-source software without our knowledge. This risk is further exacerbated by our lack of access to unpublished software patent applications. Defending claims of infringement, even claims without significant merit, can be expensive. An adverse legal decision affecting our intellectual property could materially harm our business. In addition, it is possible that a court could hold the GPL to be unenforceable through a legal challenge, or that someone could assert a claim for proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under them. If an open-source license that applies to the licensing of components of our open-source products is found to be partially or completely unenforceable, or if there are claims of infringement, we could be required to obtain licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, reengineer our products, or discontinue the sale of our products in the event reengineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis. An adverse legal decision affecting our intellectual property or the terms upon which we license our products could materially harm our business. Uncertainty regarding the legal risks related to open-source software components could affect sales of our open-source products generally. Some of our potential customers may be reluctant to incorporate open-source software into their own products if they perceive significant risks that their own software systems could become subject to GPL licensing terms. Also, as a vendor of software intended to be embedded into Linux-based devices, we may be subject to claims based on actions by our customers or device end users in their use of open-source code received from us. For instance, if our customers develop and distribute software received from us in a manner that violates GPL licensing terms or infringes third party intellectual property rights, we may be subject to legal claims under such theories as contributory infringement, inducing infringement or vicarious liability. Finally, as a result of legal concerns about open-source software, we are facing increased pressure from our customers to adopt additional indemnification or otherwise protect them from potential threats by third parties related to open-source software. We have in the past agreed to indemnify certain of our customers against certain potential liabilities associated with our open-source products and we may decide to revise or expand our indemnification policies and practices in the future to address customer requirements. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if we have to indemnify our customers for the liabilities posed by open-source software. Our mix of licensing models and professional services revenues impacts the timing of our reported revenues, and our inability to accurately manage the volume of business expected for each licensing model and the relative mix of professional services revenues could increase fluctuations in our revenue and financial results. Because we license our development products under business models that recognize revenue differently, the rate of adoption of license models by our customers impacts the timing of our reported revenues. Under our subscription license model, revenues are recognized ratably over the subscription period. By contrast, our perpetual and term license models require a majority of license revenues to be recognized in the quarter in which the products are delivered and a smaller amount relating to the fair value of the maintenance is deferred and 19 Table of Contents recognized subsequently over the maintenance period. See “Item 1. Business – Licensing Models.” An order for a subscription-based license will result in lower current-quarter revenue than an equal-sized order for a perpetual license. As a result, our reported revenues are affected by the selection of license model type by our customers. In addition, our ability to recognize revenues can be deferred when a transaction includes multiple elements. There is a risk that we will not be able to continue or increase our rate of adoption of our subscription-based, perpetual-based or term-based license models, or that we may choose to focus our sales efforts and resources on particular, significant perpetual, term or subscription license opportunities that may or may not result in a sale. The impact on revenues and deferred revenues will continue to depend on the rate at which customers license products under our perpetual, term or subscription license models or under multiple element arrangements. If we are unable to manage the rate of adoption of our license models by our customers at any time, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be negatively affected. In addition, although our subscription licenses represent a potential source of renewable license revenue, there is also a risk that new and transitioned customers will not renew their licenses at the end of the subscription term. There is a further risk that the more complex and time consuming negotiations subscription licenses may affect our ability to close such transactions, and that customers who purchase subscription licenses may spend less in the aggregate over the term of the subscription license than if they had been required to purchase perpetual licenses. The impact on revenues and deferred revenues will continue to depend on the rate at which customers license products under our perpetual, term or subscription license models. In addition, an increase in the number of subscription license renewals or multi-year terms may result in larger deferred revenues. To the extent that the subscription licensing rate is higher than we expect, we may experience a larger decline in revenues, as well as an increase in deferred revenues. Our revenues for any period and our deferred revenues at the end of any period can also be affected by the extent to which customers retain us to provide professional services rather than licensing our software solutions. We have noticed an increasing number of services-led engagements with our customers and our professional services are becoming an increasingly important enabler to sales of our products. We have experienced increased demand for our professional services as market and industry conditions change rapidly. We believe that more customers are opting to retain us to provide professional services to them in order to develop and/or prove a concept in advance of licensing our software solutions from us. Revenues from service engagements are generally recognized when the contracted services are performed and contracted future revenue from services engagements is included in deferred revenue and/or services backlog. Services backlog is not recorded on our consolidated balance sheets. In addition, the relative size of our services revenues as compared to our other revenues can affect our operating margins and earnings as we typically realize smaller operating margins on earnings generated from services engagements than earnings derived from licenses of our software solutions. Because a significant portion of our revenues continues to be derived from production licenses, we are dependent upon the ability of our customers to develop and penetrate new markets successfully. Our production license revenues depend both upon our ability to successfully negotiate production license agreements with our customers and, in turn, upon our customers’ successful commercialization of their underlying products. As our open-source business grows, we may not be able to rely on receiving per unit fees from our customers. For our open-source business, we may instead need to rely on other fees to compensate for the production license fees that we have traditionally received for our proprietary products. Also, we derive significant revenues from customers that develop products in highly competitive and technologically complex markets such as the Internet infrastructure, server and storage, digital consumer, aerospace and defense, industrial control and automotive markets. If these customers sell fewer products or otherwise face significant economic difficulties, our revenues will decline. We cannot control our customers’ product development or commercialization or predict their success. In addition, we depend upon our customers to accurately report the use of their products in order for us to collect our revenues from production licenses. If our customers are not successful with their products or do not accurately report use of their products to us, our production license revenues may decline significantly. 20 Table of Contents Numerous factors may cause our total revenues and net income to fluctuate significantly from period to period. These fluctuations increase the difficulty of financial planning and forecasting and may result in decreases in our available cash and declines in the market price of our stock. A number of factors, many of which are outside our control, may cause or contribute to significant fluctuations in our total revenues and net income. These fluctuations make financial planning and forecasting more difficult. In addition, these fluctuations may result in unanticipated decreases in our available cash, which could negatively impact our operations. As discussed more fully below, these fluctuations also could increase the volatility of our stock price. Factors that may cause or contribute to fluctuations in our revenues and net income include: • acceptance by our customers of our current and new product offerings; • the number and timing of orders we receive, including disproportionately higher receipt and shipment of orders in the last month of the quarter; • changes in the length of our products’ sales cycles, which increase as our customers’ purchase decisions become more strategic and are made at higher management levels; • reductions in the number of engineering projects started by our customers due to their own difficult financial or economic conditions; • the impact of impairment charges arising from past acquisitions; • the success of our customers’ products from which we derive our production license revenues; • the mix of our revenues as between sales of products that have more upfront revenue, subscriptions that have more deferred revenues and services which have lower profit margins; • our ability to control our operating expenses, and fully realize the impact of the restructuring plans we have implemented; • our ability to continue to develop, introduce and ship competitive new products and product enhancements quickly; • possible deferrals of orders by customers in anticipation of new product introductions; • announcements, product introductions and price reductions by our competitors; • our ability to manage costs for fixed-price consulting agreements; • seasonal product purchases by our customers, which historically have been higher in our fourth fiscal quarter; • the impact of, and our ability to react to, natural disasters and/or events of terrorism; • the impact of, and our ability to react to, business disruptions arising from or relating to internet or computer viruses service interruptions; • changes in business cycles that affect the markets in which we sell our products and services; • economic, political and other conditions in the United States and internationally; • foreign currency exchange rates; • the impact of changes to existing accounting pronouncements; and • the impact of any stock-based compensation charges arising from the issuance of stock options, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights or any other stock-based awards. One or more of the foregoing factors may cause our operating expenses to be disproportionately high or may cause our net revenues and net income to fluctuate significantly. Results from prior periods are thus not necessarily indicative of the results of future periods. 21 Table of Contents We face intense competition in the Device Software Optimization industry, which could decrease demand for our products or cause us to reduce our prices. The Device Software Optimization industry is characterized by rapid change, new and complex technology and intense competition. See “Item 1. Business – Competition.” Our ability to maintain our current market share depends upon our ability to satisfy customer requirements, enhance existing products and develop and introduce new products. Due to the complexity of the markets in which we operate, where our customers often develop device systems in-house, it is difficult to assess the impact of competition on our business and our related share of these markets. We have faced increasing competition in recent years as customers have decreased research and development budgets, sought to increase the value they receive from vendors, including us, attempted to leverage a more competitive bidding process when spending research and development budgets and/or deferred or canceled projects, in whole or in part. As a result, we believe that some customers have elected not to purchase our products and have chosen to undertake such development in-house, selected solutions they perceive to be less expensive or relied upon existing licenses from us rather than making new purchases. We expect the intensity of competition to increase in the future. Increased competitiveness may result in reductions in the prices of our products, royalties and services, lower-than-expected gross margins or loss of market share, any of which would harm our business. Our primary competition comes from internal research and development departments of companies that develop device systems in-house. In many cases, companies that develop device systems in-house have already made significant investments of time and effort in developing their own internal systems, making acceptance of our products as a replacement more difficult. Additionally, many of these in-house departments may increasingly choose to use open-source software, such as the Linux operating system. We also compete with independent software vendors and, to a limited extent, with open-source software vendors. Some of the companies that develop device systems in-house and some of these independent software vendors, such as Microsoft Corporation, have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, sales and other resources and significantly greater name recognition than we do. Demands for rapid change and the increasing complexity of the technology in our industry intensify the competition we face. In addition, our competitors may consolidate or establish strategic alliances to expand product offerings and resources or address new market segments. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. These factors favor larger competitors that have the resources to develop new technologies or to respond more quickly with new product offerings or product enhancements. We may be unable to meet the pace of rapid development set by our competitors or may incur additional costs attempting to do so, which may cause declines in our operating results. Our competitors may foresee the course of market developments more accurately than we do and could in the future develop new technologies that compete with our products or even render our products obsolete, any of which could adversely affect our competitive position and therefore our operating results. Our significant international business activities subject us to increased costs and other risks. We develop and sell a substantial percentage of our products internationally. For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2008, revenues from international sales were $149.6 million, or 46% of total revenues. Additionally, we have investments in, or have made acquisitions of, companies located outside the United States. Over the long term, we expect to continue to make investments to further support and expand our international operations and increase our direct sales force and distribution network in EMEA, Japan and Asia Pacific. In particular, we intend to increase significantly our engineering and professional services resources in China, Romania and Canada. Risks inherent in international operations include: • the imposition of governmental controls and regulatory requirements; • the costs and risks of localizing products for foreign countries; 22 Table of Contents • differences in business cultures and sales cycles; • differences in operation and sales support expenses; • unexpected changes in tariffs, import and export restrictions and other barriers and restrictions; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; • other increased costs of doing business; • restrictions on repatriation of earnings; • exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates; • the costs and difficulties associated with complying with a variety of foreign laws and domestic laws applicable to foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiaries and branch operations; • increased risks of intellectual property infringement and less stringent intellectual property protection laws; • the costs and risks of operating in countries experiencing geopolitical conflict and/or terrorism; • the effect of our adoption of global pricing models; • difficulties in integrating products and operations from foreign acquisitions; • the impact of local health and political crises that prohibit or severely limit travel or other interaction with a local economic market; • exposure to local economic slowdowns; and • the need to guarantee credit instruments extended to support foreign operations. Any of these events, regionally and as a whole, could reduce our international sales and increase our costs of doing business internationally and have a material adverse effect on our gross profit and net operating results. Patent, trademark or copyright infringement, trade secret misappropriation or product liability claims against us may result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require us to expend significant resources. In addition, patent or copyright claims may require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. We occasionally receive communications from third parties alleging patent, trademark or copyright infringement, trade secret misappropriation or other intellectual property claims, and there is always the chance that third parties may assert infringement claims against us or against our customers under circumstances that might require us to provide indemnification. Growth of our open-source business increases this risk in part because many of the open-source software components that we may incorporate into or distribute with our products are developed by numerous independent parties over whom we exercise no supervision or control. Additionally, because our products are increasingly used in applications, such as network infrastructure, transportation, medical and mission-critical business systems, in which the failure of the device system could cause property damage, personal injury or economic loss, we may face product liability claims. Although our agreements with our customers contain provisions intended to limit our exposure to infringement and liability claims, our agreements may not be effective in limiting our exposure in all circumstances. Any of these types of claims, with or without merit, could result in claims for indemnification by us or costly litigation, could require us to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or remedy product defects, cause product shipment delays or require us to pay significant damages if the claims are successful. In the case of infringement of another party’s intellectual property, we may be required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements; however, we cannot be certain that the necessary licenses will be available or 23 Table of Contents that they can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. If we are not successful in defending these claims or, with respect to infringement claims, were to fail to obtain royalty or licensing agreements in a timely manner and on reasonable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. The rights upon which we rely to protect the intellectual property underlying our products may not be adequate, which could enable third parties to use our technology without our permission and reduce our ability to compete. Our success depends significantly upon the proprietary technology contained in our products. We currently rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, and contractual provisions to establish and protect our intellectual property rights in our technology and products. We cannot be certain that the steps that we take to protect our intellectual property will adequately protect our rights, that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology, or that we can maintain our technology as trade secrets. In addition, discovery and investigation of unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. We expect software piracy, which is difficult to detect, to be a persistent problem, particularly in those foreign countries where the laws may not protect our intellectual property as fully as in the United States. The risks that we face may increase as we conduct more research and development activities in China, Romania, Israel and other foreign countries. Employees, consultants, and others who participate in the development of our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property. We might not have adequate remedies for infringement or breach of our proprietary rights by third parties, employees or consultants. Further, we have in the past initiated, and in the future may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement or breach of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Whether or not such litigation is determined in our favor, such actions could result in significant expenses to us, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel from productive tasks or cause product shipment delays. The costs associated with acquisitions and investments could disrupt our business and harm our operating results. We anticipate that, as part of our business strategy, we will continue to evaluate acquisition and investment opportunities in businesses, products and technologies that complement ours. These investments and acquisitions can be expensive and often require us to dedicate significant time and resources to the process. We have incurred significant costs in connection with acquisition transactions in prior fiscal years and may incur significant costs in connection with future transactions, whether or not they are consummated. Acquisitions involve additional risks including, among others, difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, and products of the acquired companies; diverting management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; and potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development. If we cannot successfully manage the integration of businesses we may acquire or are unable to realize the benefits of, or anticipated revenues from, our acquisitions, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. If revenues associated with acquired businesses do not meet our original expectations, acquisitions may result in charges relating to impairment of acquired goodwill and purchased intangibles. If our strategic relationships are not successful, our product offerings, distribution and/or revenues may be adversely impacted. We have many strategic relationships with semiconductor companies, circuit board manufacturers, system manufacturers, other software companies, customers and others. In addition, we are playing an increasingly active and important role in open-source development projects and industry consortia. See “Item 1. Business – Strategic Alliances, Industry Consortia and Open-Source Community Participation.” These strategic relationships and industry consortia are complex. Some of the companies that are our strategic partners in certain business areas or industry consortia are also our competitors in some business areas. Our strategic partners may also have 24 Table of Contents concurrent relationships with other companies that provide open-source, proprietary or in-house solutions, which may put pressure on our product development roadmaps, timelines and prices. If we are not successful in developing and maintaining these strategic relationships, our business may be harmed. If our collaborative marketing and distribution agreements terminate or expire, the scope of our product offerings may be restricted, and the distribution of our products and our revenues may be adversely impacted. The costs of software development can be high, and we may not realize revenues from our development efforts for a substantial period of time. Introducing new products that rapidly address changing market demands requires a continued high level of investment in research and development. If we are required to undertake extensive capital outlays to address changes in the device software optimization market, we may be unable to realize revenue as soon as we may expect. The costs associated with software development are increasing, including the costs of acquiring or licensing new technologies. Our investment in new and existing market opportunities prior to our ability to generate revenue from these new opportunities, if we are able to capitalize on these opportunities at all, may adversely affect our operating results. Because certain of our customers provide products and services to U.S. Government agencies, as their supplier we may be subject to unique risks that could increase our costs and make revenue related to these customers more difficult to predict. As a subcontractor to the U.S. Government, we must comply with and are affected by certain laws and regulations related to the award, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts and other regulations particularly related to the aerospace and defense industry, such as export control regulations including International Traffic in Arms Regulations. In addition, under applicable regulations, various audit agencies of the U.S. government conduct regular audits of contractors’ compliance with a variety of U.S. government regulations and have the right to review retroactively the financial records under most U.S. government contracts. Further, as a U.S. Government subcontractor, we are subject to an increased risk of investigation, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistleblower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities to which purely private sector companies are not. This increases our internal procedures and costs, and as well, we may face an increased risk of non-compliance as these processes and rules requirements involve separate processes that are outside our standard, commercial practices. In addition, our contracts with customers providing products and services to the U.S. government are subject to uncertainty since their governmental contracts are subject to U.S. government appropriations that are changeable and determined on an annual basis. Also, the U.S. government has the right to modify, curtail or terminate customer contracts, which would result in corresponding changes to our contracts with our customers. Some of our contracts are subject to contract accounting, which requires judgment relative to assessing risk, estimating contract revenues and costs and making assumptions regarding scheduling and technical issues. Because of these risks, it is difficult to predict anticipated future revenues attributable to government related subcontracts. If we do not effectively manage these risks, our operating results could be materially negatively impacted. If we lose key personnel or are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, our business may be harmed. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of key management, engineering, sales and other personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. We believe our future success will also depend, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and other personnel, and upon the ability of management to operate effectively, both individually and as a group, in geographically disparate locations. In addition, our past reductions in force could potentially make attracting and retaining qualified employees more difficult in the future. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring 25 Table of Contents required personnel, particularly engineers and sales personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and negatively affect our ability to sell our products. In addition, companies in the software industry whose employees accept positions with competitors may claim that their competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices or that there will be inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information. We may be subject to such claims in the future as we seek to hire additional qualified personnel. Such claims could result in material litigation. As a result, we could incur substantial costs in defending against these claims, regardless of their merits, and be subject to additional restrictions if any such litigation is not resolved in our favor. Changes to existing accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may cause adverse revenue fluctuations and affect our results of operations or how we conduct our business. A change in any accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements or taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements or taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. The complexity of accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies, particularly those related to revenue recognition, could materially affect our financial results for a given period. Although we use standardized agreements designed to meet current revenue recognition criteria under generally accepted accounting principles, we must often negotiate and revise terms and conditions of these standardized agreements, particularly in multi-element license and services transactions. As our transactions have increased in complexity, particularly with the sale of larger, multi-element transactions, negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions may require us to defer recognition of revenue on such licenses. We believe that we are in compliance with Statement of Position 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, as amended; however, more complex, multi-element transactions require additional accounting analysis to account for them accurately. Errors in such analysis in any period could lead to unanticipated changes in our revenue accounting practices and may affect the timing of revenue recognition, which could adversely affect our financial results for any given period. If we discover that we have interpreted and applied revenue recognition rules differently than prescribed by generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S., we could be required to devote significant management resources, and incur the expense associated with an audit, restatement or other examination of our financial statements. Business interruptions could adversely affect our business. Wind River’s operations and the operations of its vendors and customers are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure and other events beyond our control. For example, a substantial portion of Wind River’s facilities, including our corporate headquarters, is located near major earthquake faults. In the event of a major earthquake, we could experience business interruptions, destruction of facilities and loss of life. We do not carry earthquake insurance and we have not set aside funds or reserves to cover such potential earthquake-related losses. In the event that a material business interruption occurs that affects Wind River or our vendors or customers, shipments could be delayed and our business and financial results could be harmed. Our common stock price is subject to volatility. In recent years, the stock markets in general and the shares of technology companies in particular have experienced extreme price fluctuations. These recent price fluctuations are not necessarily proportionate to the operating performance of the companies affected. Our stock price has similarly experienced significant volatility. 26 Table of Contents As reported on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2008, our stock had an intra-day high sales price of $13.42 and an intra-day low sales price of $7.88. In some of our past fiscal quarters, we experienced shortfalls in revenue and earnings from levels expected by securities analysts and investors, which have had an immediate and significant adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. These factors relating to the fluctuations in our revenues and net income may continue to affect our stock price. Comments by, or changes in estimates from, securities analysts as well as significant developments involving our competitors or our industry could also affect our stock price. In addition, the market price of our common stock is affected by the stock performance of other technology companies generally, as well as companies in our industry and our customers in particular. Other broad market and industry factors may negatively affect our operating results or cause our stock price to decline, as may general political or economic conditions in the United States and globally, such as recessions, or interest rate or currency fluctuations. In particular, the stock market may be adversely impacted, or experience unusual volatility, as a result of the outbreak of armed conflict or hostilities involving the United States or incidences of terrorism in, or directed at, the United States or its allies. General economic weakness and geopolitical factors may harm our operating results and financial condition. Our results of operations are dependent to a large extent upon the state of the global economy. General economic weakness or weaker economic conditions in the United States, Europe or the Asia-Pacific region could adversely our customers and our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, geopolitical factors such terrorist activities, armed conflict or global health conditions that adversely affect the global economy may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Provisions in our charter documents, customer agreements, and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of Wind River, which could hinder stockholders’ ability to receive a premium for our stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or consolidation that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; and • requiring super-majority voting to effect amendments to certain provisions of Wind River’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Certain provisions of Delaware law also may discourage, delay, or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us, and our agreements with certain of our customers require that we give prior notice of a change of control. Our various anti-takeover provisions could prevent or delay a change in control of the Company, which could hinder stockholders’ ability to receive a premium for our stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 