ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks that follow together with all of the other information contained in this report in evaluating our company. If any of these risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS GENERALLY OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS UPON OUR ABILITY TO SPONSOR AND RAISE INVESTOR CAPITAL FOR OUR INVESTMENT FUNDS. Our business as a specialized asset manager depends upon our ability to sponsor, and raise capital, through investment funds and to generate management fees by managing those funds and the assets they hold. If we are unable to raise capital through these funds, our ability to increase our managed assets, and thus our revenues from management fees, will be materially harmed. Our ability to raise capital through these funds will depend upon numerous factors, including o the performance of our existing funds; o market acceptance of the types of funds we sponsor; o the availability of qualified personnel to manage our funds; o the availability of suitable investments in the types of loans, real estate, equipment finance assets and other assets that we seek to acquire for our funds; and o interest rate changes and their effect on both the assets we seek to acquire for our funds, and the amount, cost and availability of acquisition financing. CHANGES IN GENERAL MARKET CONDITIONS COULD AFFECT OUR REVENUES AND OUR ABILITY TO GROW. Changes in economic or market conditions may impair the profitability and performance of, and the demand for, our investment funds and, as a result, our management services. Our ability to compete and grow depends, in part, on the relative attractiveness of the type of investment funds we sponsor and our management performance and strategies under prevailing market conditions. Changes in our absolute performance, or performance relative to competing investments, market indices or other criteria could impair our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. INCREASES IN INTEREST RATES MAY INCREASE OUR OPERATING COSTS. As of September 30, 2005, we had a real estate credit facility, two equipment finance credit facilities and, with respect to a CDO issuer we are sponsoring, a warehouse credit facility. We expect that in the course of our operations we will obtain other credit facilities. All of our current credit facilities are at variable interest rates, and we expect that future facilities will also be at variable rates. As a result, increases in interest rates on our credit facilities, to the extent they are not matched by increased interest rates or other income from the assets whose acquisition is financed by these facilities, will increase our interest costs, which would reduce our net income. 9 CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES MAY IMPAIR THE OPERATING RESULTS OF OUR INVESTMENT FUNDS AND THEREBY IMPAIR OUR OPERATING RESULTS. The investments made by many of our funds are interest-rate sensitive. As a result, changes in interest rates could reduce the value of the assets held and the returns to investors, thereby impairing our ability to raise capital and reducing both our returns on amounts we have invested in the funds as well as management and other fees that may depend on fund net income. IF WE CANNOT GENERATE SUFFICIENT CASH TO FUND OUR PARTICIPATIONS IN OUR INVESTMENT FUNDS, OUR ABILITY TO MAINTAIN AND INCREASE OUR REVENUES MAY BE HARMED. We typically participate in our investment funds along with our investors, and believe that our participation enhances our ability to raise capital from investors. We typically fund our participations through cash derived from operations or from financing. If our cash from operations is insufficient to fund our participation in future investment funds we sponsor, and we cannot arrange for financing, our continuing ability to raise funds from investors and, thus, our ability to maintain and increase the revenues we receive from fund management, will be impaired. TERMINATION OF MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS WITH ONE OR MORE OF OUR INVESTMENT FUNDS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. We provide our management services to our investment funds through management agreements, as well as through our position as the sole or managing general partner of partnership funds or as the operating manager of other fund entities, or combinations thereof. Our arrangements are long-term, and frequently have no specified termination dates. However, our management arrangements with, or our position as general partner or operating manager of, an investment fund typically may be terminated by action taken by the investors. Upon any such termination, our management fees, after payment of any termination payments required, would cease, reducing our expected revenues. WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY MANAGING OUR GROWTH WHICH MAY DIVERT RESOURCES AND LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO EXPAND OUR OPERATIONS SUCCESSFULLY. The amount of assets we manage has grown substantially from $3.2 billion at September 30, 2004 to $7.1 billion at September 30, 2005. We expect to continue to experience significant growth in our assets under management. Our future success will depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures, and manage a growing number of assets and investment funds. We may not implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Consequently, our continued growth may place a strain on our administrative and operations infrastructure. Any such strain could increase our costs or reduce or eliminate our profitability. OUR BUSINESS WILL BE HARMED IF WE ARE UNABLE TO LOCATE AND RETAIN KEY PERSONNEL. Our ability to locate and retain quality personnel has contributed significantly to our growth and success and is important to attracting investors. The market for qualified executives, asset managers and other key personnel is extremely competitive. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. The loss of any of our professional personnel could reduce our revenues and earnings. WE ARE SUBJECT TO SUBSTANTIAL COMPETITION IN ALL ASPECTS OF OUR BUSINESS. Our ability to sponsor investment funds is highly dependent on both our access to various distribution systems of national, regional and local securities firms, and our ability to locate and acquire appropriate assets for our investment funds. We are subject to substantial competition in each area. In the distribution area, our investment funds compete with those sponsored by other asset managers which are being distributed through the same networks as well as investments sponsored by the securities firms themselves. While we have been successful in maintaining access to these distribution channels, we cannot assure you that we will continue to do so. The inability to have continued access to our distribution channels could reduce the number of funds we sponsor and assets we manage, thereby impeding and possibly impairing our revenues and revenue growth. 10 In acquiring appropriate assets for our investment funds, we compete with numerous public and private investment vehicles, commercial banks, investment banks and other financial institutions, as well as industry participants in each of our separate asset management areas. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Competition for desirable investments may result in higher costs and lower investment returns, and may delay our sponsorship of investment funds. THERE ARE FEW ECONOMIC BARRIERS TO ENTRY IN THE ASSET MANAGEMENT BUSINESS. Our investment funds compete against an ever-increasing number of investment and asset management products and services sponsored by investment banks, banks, insurance companies, financial services companies and others. There are few economic barriers to entry into the investment or asset management industries and, as a result, we expect that competition for access to distribution channels and appropriate assets to acquire will increase. RISKS RELATING TO PARTICULAR ASPECTS OF OUR FINANCIAL FUND MANAGEMENT, REAL ESTATE AND EQUIPMENT FINANCE OPERATIONS OUR INCOME FROM OUR INTERESTS IN CDOS MAY BE VOLATILE. We account for our investments in the Trapeza CDO programs, described in "Business-Financial fund management," under the equity method of accounting. Accordingly, we recognize our percentage share of any income or loss of these entities. Because the Trapeza entities are investment companies for accounting purposes, such income or loss includes a "mark-to-market" adjustment to reflect the net changes in value, including unrealized appreciation or depreciation, in investments and swap agreements. Such value will be impacted by changes in the underlying quality of the Trapeza entities' investments and by changes in interest rates. To the extent that the Trapeza entities' investments are securities with a fixed rate of interest, increases in interest rates will likely cause the value of the investments to fall and decreases in interest rates will likely cause the value of the investments to rise. The Trapeza entities' various interest rate hedges and swap agreements will also change in value with changes in interest rates. In addition, as the equity interests that we hold in CDO issuers either directly or through limited partnership investments are terminated, we obtain a return of capital only after all payments are made on the CDOs. If there are defaults on the collateral securities held by these issuers, our distributions and return of capital upon liquidation may be reduced or eliminated. Accordingly, our income or loss from our CDO investments and from future similar CDO investments may be volatile. REAL ESTATE LOANS IN OUR PORTFOLIO ARE SUBJECT TO HIGHER RISK OF DEFAULT THAN FIRST MORTGAGE LOANS. The primary or sole source of recovery for our real estate loans and property interests is typically the underlying real property. Accordingly, the value of our loans and property interests depends upon the value of that real property. Many of the properties underlying our portfolio loans, while income producing, do not generate sufficient revenues to pay the full amount of debt service required under the original loan terms or have other problems. There may be a higher risk of default with these loans as compared to conventional loans. Loan defaults will reduce our current return on investment and may require us to become involved in expensive and time-consuming bankruptcy, reorganization or foreclosure proceedings. 11 REAL ESTATE LOANS IN OUR PORTFOLIO REQUIRE LARGE LUMP SUM PAYMENTS AT MATURITY, INCREASING THE RISK OF DEFAULT. Our loans, including those treated in our consolidated financial statements as FIN 46 assets and liabilities, typically provide payment structures other than equal periodic payments that retire a loan over its specified term, including structures that defer payment of some portion of accruing interest, or defer repayment of principal, until loan maturity. Where a borrower must pay a loan balance in a large lump sum payment, its ability to satisfy this obligation may depend upon its ability to obtain suitable refinancing or otherwise to raise a substantial cash amount, which we do not control. In addition, lenders can lose their lien priority in many jurisdictions, including those in which our existing loans are located, to persons who supply labor or materials to a property. For these and other reasons, the total amount which we may recover from one of our loans may be less than the total amount of the carrying value of the loan or our cost of acquisition. THE VALUE OF OUR PORTFOLIO OF REAL ESTATE LOANS AND PROPERTY INTERESTS DEPENDS UPON THE VALUE OF THE UNDERLYING REAL PROPERTIES WHICH MAY DECLINE DUE TO FACTORS BEYOND OUR CONTROL. Declines in real property values generally and/or in those specific markets where the properties underlying our portfolio of loans and property interests are located could affect the value of those properties and, with respect to our portfolio loans, default rates. Properties underlying our loans and our property interests may be affected by general and local economic conditions, neighborhood values, competitive overbuilding, casualty losses and other factors beyond our control. The value of real properties may also be affected by factors such as the cost of compliance with, and liability under environmental laws, changes in interest rates and the availability of financing. Income from a property will be reduced if a significant number of tenants are unable to pay rent or if available space cannot be rented on favorable terms. Operating and other expenses of real properties, particularly significant expenses such as real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs, generally do not decrease when revenues decrease and, even if revenues increase, operating and other expenses may increase faster than revenues. OUR PORTFOLIO OF REAL ESTATE LOANS PRINCIPALLY CONSIST OF JUNIOR MORTGAGE LOANS, WHICH ARE SUBJECT TO HIGHER DEFAULT RISKS THAN SENIOR FINANCING. Many of our portfolio loans, including those treated in our consolidated financial statements as FIN 46 assets and liabilities, are junior lien obligations. Subordinate lien financing poses a greater credit risk, including a substantially greater risk of nonpayment of interest or principal, than senior lien financing. If we or any senior lender forecloses on a loan, we will be entitled to share only in the net foreclosure proceeds after payment to all senior lenders. It is therefore possible that we will not recover the full amount of a foreclosed loan or the amount of our unrecovered investment in the loan. OUR REAL ESTATE LOAN LOSS RESERVE MAY NOT BE SUFFICIENT TO COVER FUTURE LOSSES. At September 30, 2005, our allowance for possible losses was $770,000, which represents 1.3% of the book value of our investments in real estate loans and property interests. We cannot assure you that this allowance will prove to be sufficient to cover future losses, or that future provisions for losses will not be materially greater than those we have recorded to date. Losses that exceed our allowance for losses, or cause an increase in our provision for losses, could materially reduce our earnings. OUR REAL ESTATE LOANS ARE ILLIQUID, AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO DIVEST THEM IN RESPONSE TO CHANGING ECONOMIC, FINANCIAL AND INVESTMENT CONDITIONS. The loans in our portfolio, including those treated in our consolidated financial statements as FIN 46 assets and liabilities, typically do not conform to standard loan underwriting criteria. Many of our loans are subordinate loans. As a result, our loans are relatively illiquid investments. We may be unable to vary our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions. 12 HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC SUBSTANCES ON PROPERTIES UNDERLYING OUR LOANS MAY SUBJECT US TO ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES. The existence of hazardous or toxic substances on a property will reduce its value and our ability to sell the property in the event of a default in the loan it underlies. Contamination of a real property by hazardous substances or toxic wastes not only may give rise to a lien on that property to assure payment of the cost of remediation, but also can result in liability to us as an owner, lender or, if we assume management, as an operator, for that cost regardless of whether we know of, or are responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if we arrange for disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site, even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses to remediate contaminated properties and may materially limit use of these properties. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO REPURCHASE UP TO $3.5 MILLION OF REAL ESTATE LOAN PARTICIPATIONS WE HAVE SOLD. Before fiscal 2000, we entered into a series of standby commitments with some participants in our loans which obligate us to repurchase their participations or substitute a performing loan if the borrower defaults. At September 30, 2005, the participations as to which we had standby commitments had an aggregate outstanding balance of $3.5 million. OUR EQUIPMENT LEASES MAY HAVE GREATER RISKS OF DEFAULT THAN SENIOR SECURED LOANS. While we expect that we will transfer our equipment financing assets, principally direct financing leases, operating leases and equipment notes, to third party programs or, to a lesser extent, RCC, we typically retain some equipment leases for our own account. Many of the entities seeking equipment financing from us are small- to mid-size businesses. As a result, we may be subject to higher risks of a default than if we provided equipment financing to larger businesses. While we will seek to repossess and re-lease or sell the equipment subject to a defaulted lease or other equipment finance instrument, we may not be able to do so on advantageous terms. If a lessee files for protection under the bankruptcy laws, we may experience difficulties and delays in recovering the equipment. Moreover, the equipment may be returned in poor condition and we may be unable to enforce important lease or loan provisions against an insolvent lessee, including the contract provisions that require lessee to return the equipment in good condition. In some cases, the deteriorating financial condition of a lessee may make trying to recover what it owes impractical. The costs of recovering equipment upon a default, enforcing obligations under the lease or loan, and transporting, storing, repairing and finding a new lessee or purchaser for the equipment may be high. Higher than expected lease defaults will result in a loss of anticipated revenues. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 