ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks that follow together with all of the other information contained in this report in evaluating our company. If any of these risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business Generally Our business depends upon our ability to sponsor and raise investor capital for our investment funds. Our business as a specialized asset manager depends upon our ability to sponsor, and raise capital, through investment funds and to generate management fees by managing those funds and the assets they hold. If we are unable to raise capital through these funds, our ability to increase our managed assets, and thus to increase our revenues from management fees, will be materially impaired. Our ability to raise capital through these funds depends upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: · the availability of financing for the acquisitions of assets, which has been constrained or, in the case of our financial fund management operations, largely halted, by current market conditions; · market acceptance of the types of funds we sponsor and market perceptions about the types of assets which we seek to acquire for our funds which has been impaired by current market conditions; · the willingness or ability of retail investors, a principal source of investment funds for our commercial finance and real estate investment funds, to invest in long-term, relatively illiquid investments of the type sponsored by us; · the performance of our existing funds; · the availability of qualified personnel to manage our funds; · the availability of suitable investments in the types of loans, real estate, commercial finance assets and other assets that we seek to acquire for our funds; and · interest rate changes and their effect on both the assets we seek to acquire for our funds, and the amount, cost and availability of acquisition financing. Declines in the market values of our investments may reduce periodic reported results, credit availability and our ability to make distributions. We classify a substantial portion of our assets for accounting purposes as “available-for-sale.” As a result, changes in the market values of those assets are directly charged or credited to stockholders’ equity. A decline in these values will reduce the book value of our assets. Moreover, if the decline in value of an available-for-sale asset is other than temporary, such decline will reduce earnings. As a result of current market conditions, the market value of many of our assets has declined. We cannot assure you that there will not be further declines in the value of our assets, or that those permanent declines will not be material. A decline in the market value of our assets may also adversely affect us in instances where we have borrowed money based on the market value of those assets. If the market value of those assets declines, the lender may require us to post additional collateral to support the loan. If we were unable to post the additional collateral, we could have to sell the assets under adverse market conditions. As a result, a reduction in credit availability may reduce our earnings. Interest rate changes may reduce the value of our assets, our returns on these assets and our ability to generate and increase our management fee revenues. Changes in interest rates will affect the market value of assets we hold for our own account and our returns from such assets. In general, as interest rates rise, the value of fixed-rate investments, such as equipment leases and loans, will decrease, while as interest rates fall, the return on variable rate assets will fall. In addition, changes in interest rates may affect the value and return on assets we manage for our investment funds, thereby affecting both our management fees from those funds as well as our ability to sponsor additional investment funds, which, in turn, may affect our ability to generate and increase our management fee revenues. (Back to Index) 11 (Back to Index) Increases in interest rates will increase our operating costs. As of September 30, 2008, we had two corporate credit facilities and two commercial finance credit facilities. We may seek to obtain other credit facilities. In addition, pursuant to FIN 46-R, which, if fully funded, will result in a significant amount of equipment leases and loans being consolidated for financial reporting purposes in our consolidated financial statements. All of our current credit facilities and the Apidos CDO notes are at variable interest rates, and we expect that future facilities and some or all of future CDOs, if any, we may be required to consolidate will also be at variable rates. As a result, increases in interest rates on our credit facilities, to the extent they are with recourse to us and are not matched by increased interest rates or other income from the assets whose acquisition is financed by these facilities or are not subject to effective hedging arrangements, will increase our interest costs, which would reduce our net income or cause us to sustain losses. In addition, financing we obtain may require us to maintain a specified ratio of the amount of the loan to the value of the underlying assets. A decrease in the value of these assets may lead to margin calls or calls for the pledge to, or deposit with, the lender of additional assets. We may not have sufficient funds or unpledged assets to satisfy these calls. While losses sustained by CDOs or other entities we consolidate under FIN 46-R are typically without recourse to us, financing we obtain may impose financial covenants calculated pursuant to GAAP. As a result, asset value declines or other adverse occurrences in the CDOs may cause us to breach these covenants, which could lead to margin calls or, possibly, constitute events of default under our corporate or other credit facilities. Changes in interest rates may impair the operating results of our investment funds and thereby impair our operating results. The investments made by many of our funds are interest rate sensitive. As a result, changes in interest rates could reduce the value of the assets held and the returns to investors, thereby impairing our ability to raise capital, reducing the management and other fees from those funds and reducing our returns on, and the value of, amounts we have invested in those funds. If we cannot generate sufficient cash to fund our participations in our investment funds, our ability to maintain and increase our revenues may be impaired. We typically participate in our investment funds along with our investors, and believe that our participation enhances our ability to raise capital from investors. We typically fund our participations through cash derived from operations or from financing. If our cash from operations is insufficient to fund our participation in future investment funds we sponsor, and we cannot arrange for financing, our continuing ability to raise funds from investors and, thus, our ability to maintain and increase the revenues we receive from fund management, will be impaired. Termination of management arrangements with one or more of our investment funds could harm our business. We provide management services to our investment funds through management agreements and through our position as the sole or managing general partner of partnership funds or as the operating manager of other fund entities, or combinations thereof. Our arrangements are long-term, and frequently have no specified termination dates. However, our management arrangements with, or our position as general partner or operating manager of, an investment fund typically may be terminated by action taken by the investors. Upon any such termination, our management fees, after payment of any termination payments required, would cease, thereby reducing our expected revenues. Moreover, because all of the management fees from our financial fund management segment are pledged as security under our credit facility with TD Bank, termination of one or more management arrangements would reduce our collateral which could reduce our borrowing base. If the borrowing base were reduced below amounts outstanding on the facility, we would be required to repay the excess. To the extent we do not have cash available to repay the excess, we may be required to sell assets to obtain the necessary cash; any such sale may not be on economically attractive terms, particularly under current economic condition. We may have difficulty managing our asset portfolios under current market conditions. Current market conditions have increased the complexity of managing the assets held by us and our investment funds. As a result, we depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures to deal effectively with the complexity of the conditions under which we operate. We may not be able to implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Consequently, we may experience strains on our administrative and operations infrastructure, increasing our costs or reducing or eliminating our profitability. (Back to Index) 12 (Back to Index) Our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover future losses. At September 30, 2008, our allowances for possible credit losses were $1.8 million in commercial finance (1.0% of the book value of our leases and loans held for investment in our commercial finance segment), $1.1 million in real estate (6.5% of the book value of our investments in real estate loans) and $1.6 million in financial fund management (0.7% of the book value of our loans held for investment in our financial fund management segment). We cannot assure you that these allowances will prove to be sufficient to cover future losses, or that future provision for credit losses will not be materially greater than those we have recorded to date. Losses that exceed our allowance for credit losses, or cause an increase in our provision for credit losses, could materially reduce our earnings. Many of the assets we hold in our portfolios are illiquid, and we may not be able to divest them in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions. Many of the assets in our portfolio, including those in our consolidated financial statements under FIN 46-R, do not have ready markets. Moreover, we believe that the market for many of the assets in our portfolio, particularly real estate and CDO interests, have been severely constricted as a result of current economic conditions. As a result, many of our portfolio assets are relatively illiquid investments. We may be unable to vary our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions or to sell our investments on acceptable terms should we desire to do so. We are subject to substantial competition in all aspects of our business. Our ability to sponsor investment funds is highly dependent on our access to various distribution systems of national, regional and local securities firms, and our ability to locate and acquire appropriate assets for our investment funds. We are subject to substantial competition in each area. In the distribution area, our investment funds compete with those sponsored by other asset managers, which are being distributed through the same networks, as well as investments sponsored by the securities firms themselves. While we have been successful in maintaining access to these distribution channels, we cannot assure you that we will continue to do so. The inability to have continued access to our distribution channels could reduce the number of funds we sponsor and assets we manage, thereby impeding and possibly impairing our revenues and revenue growth. In acquiring appropriate assets for our investment funds, we compete with numerous public and private investment vehicles, commercial banks, investment banks and other financial institutions, as well as industry participants in each of our separate asset management areas. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Competition for desirable investments may result in higher costs and lower investment returns, and may delay our sponsorship of investment funds. There are few economic barriers to entry in the asset management business. Our investment funds compete against an ever-increasing number of investment and asset management products and services sponsored by investment banks, banks, insurance companies, financial services companies and others. There are few economic barriers to entry into the investment or asset management industries and, as a result, we expect that competition for access to distribution channels and appropriate assets to acquire will increase. Risks Relating to Particular Aspects of Our Financial Fund Management, Real Estate and Commercial Finance Operations As a result of recent conditions in the global credit markets, our ability to sponsor investment vehicles and increase our assets under management may be limited. Our financial fund management business has largely consisted of the sponsorship and management of CDO issuers. As a result of recent conditions in the global credit markets, sponsorship of new CDOs became impracticable in fiscal 2008 and likely will continue to be impracticable in fiscal 2009. Moreover, our ability to sponsor investment funds in our commercial finance and real estate segments depends to a significant extent on our ability to obtain financing. While we have been able to obtain financing for our commercial finance and real estate operations, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain financing in the future on attractive financial terms, or at all. An inability to obtain financing could limit or eliminate our ability to sponsor investment vehicles and increase our assets under management and, accordingly, impair our ability to generate asset management fees. (Back to Index) 13 (Back to Index) We typically have retained some portion or all of the equity in the CDOs we sponsored. CDO equity receives distributions from the CDO only if the CDO generates enough income to first pay the holders of the debt securities and the CDO’s expenses. We typically have retained some portion or all of the equity interest in CDOs we sponsored either directly or through limited partnership investments. The equity is usually entitled to all of the income generated by the CDO after the CDO pays all of the interest due on the debt securities and its other expenses, and is entitled to a return on capital only when the principal amount and accrued interest of all of the debt securities has been paid. However, there will be little or no income available to the CDO equity if there are excessive defaults by the issuers of the underlying collateral, and there may be little or no amounts available to return our capital. In that event, the value of our direct or indirect investment in the CDO’s equity, which for all CDOs was approximately $28.0 million at September 30, 2008, could decrease substantially or be eliminated. In addition, the equity securities of CDOs are generally illiquid, and because they represent a leveraged investment in the CDO’s assets, the value of the equity securities will generally have greater fluctuations than the value of the underlying collateral. In some of our investment funds, a portion of our management fees may depend upon the performance of the fund and, as a result, our management fee income may be volatile. In 20 of the CDOs we manage, a portion of our management fees is subordinated to the investors’ receipt of specified returns. In addition, with respect to RCC and seven of our investment partnerships, we receive incentive or subordinated compensation in addition to our base management fee, depending upon whether RCC or those partnerships achieve returns above specified levels. During fiscal 2008 and 2007, we earned incentive and subordinated management fees from RCC and from 22 and 21 CDOs, respectively, which constituted 20% of our aggregate management fee income for both periods. As a result of current economic conditions, the amount of incentive or subordinated management fee income we receive maybe reduced, and any such reduction may be material. Our income from our interests in the Trapeza CDO program may be volatile. We account for our investments in the Trapeza CDO programs, described in “Business-Financial Fund Management,” under the equity method of accounting. Accordingly, we recognize our percentage share of any income or loss of these entities. Because the Trapeza entities are investment companies for accounting purposes, such income or loss includes a “fair value” adjustment to reflect the net changes in value, including unrealized appreciation or depreciation, in investments and swap agreements. Such value will be impacted by changes in the underlying quality of the Trapeza entities’ investments and by changes in interest rates. To the extent that the Trapeza entities’ investments are securities with a fixed rate of interest, increases in interest rates will likely cause the value of the investments to fall and decreases in interest rates will likely cause the value of the investments to rise. The Trapeza entities’ various interest rate hedge and swap agreements will also change in value with changes in interest rates. Accordingly, our income or loss from our investments in the Trapeza CDOs may be volatile. Real estate loans in our portfolio are subject to a higher risk of loss than conventional mortgage loans. Real estate loans in our portfolio differ significantly from conventional mortgage loans. In particular, these loans: · are junior mortgage loans; · involve payment structures other than equal periodic payments that retire a loan over its term; · require the borrower to pay a large lump sum at loan maturity (which will depend upon the borrower’s ability to obtain financing or otherwise raise a substantial amount of cash at maturity); and · while producing income, do not generate sufficient revenues to pay the full amount of debt service on the loan as originally structured. As a result, real estate loans in our portfolio may have a higher risk of default and loss than conventional mortgage loans, and may require us to become involved in expensive and time-consuming workouts, or bankruptcy, reorganization or foreclosure proceedings. In addition, the principal or sole source of recovery for our real estate loans is typically the underlying property and, accordingly, the value of our loans, and our ability to collect loan payments will depend upon local, regional and national economic conditions, and conditions affecting the property specifically, including the cost of compliance with, and liability under environmental, health and safety laws, changes in interest rates and the availability of financing, casualty losses, the attractiveness of the property, the availability of tenants, the ability of tenants to pay rent, competition from similar properties in the area and neighborhood values. Operating and other expenses of real properties, particularly significant expenses such as real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs, generally do not decrease when revenues decrease and, even if revenues increase, operating and other expenses may increase faster than revenues. (Back to Index) 14 (Back to Index) Our equipment leases and loans may have significant risk of default. While we expect that we will transfer to third party programs a substantial portion of the commercial finance assets that we originate or acquire, we may retain some assets for our own account. Moreover, we are sponsoring a private equipment leasing investment vehicle which, as a result of its structure, we consolidate in our financial statements. At September 30, 2008, we hold approximately $172.1 million of leases and loans in this vehicle. Many of the entities seeking equipment financing from us are small- to middle-size businesses which may have less resources than larger businesses and which may be disproportionally affected by current economic conditions. As a result, we may be subject to higher risks of a default than if we provided equipment financing to larger businesses. While we will seek to repossess and re-lease or sell the equipment subject to a defaulted lease or other commercial finance instrument, we may not be able to do so on advantageous terms. If a borrower files for protection under the bankruptcy laws, we may experience difficulties and delays in recovering the equipment. Moreover, the equipment may be returned in poor condition and we may be unable to enforce important lease or loan provisions against an insolvent borrower, including the contract provisions that require the borrower to return the equipment in good condition. In some cases, the deteriorating financial condition of a borrower may make trying to recover what it owes impractical. The costs of recovering equipment upon a default, enforcing obligations under the lease or loan, and transporting, storing, repairing and finding a new borrower or purchaser for the equipment may be high. All the foregoing risks may be heightened by economic conditions currently existing in the United States. Higher than expected lease defaults will result in a loss of anticipated revenues and will reduce our ability to operate LEAF at a profit. Merit’s operations may be subject to higher risks or loss than LEAF’s equipment leases and loans. Merit, a majority-owned subsidiary of LEAF, provides capital advances to small companies based upon factoring their credit card receipts. Because credit card receipts are unsecured personal loans to the credit card holder, they are subject to significantly higher rates of loss than LEAF’s equipment leases and loans, particularly under economic conditions currently existing in the United States which have, generally, increased default rates. At September 30, 2008, we held approximately $12.0 million of these capital advances. If LEAF cannot renew, extend or replace its credit facility with National City Bank, its ability to originate equipment leases and loans may be impaired and it may have to sell assets to obtain cash to repay the facility. LEAF's secured revolving credit facility with National City Bank expires on July 31, 2009. If LEAF cannot renew or extend the facility, or obtain a replacement facility, LEAF's ability to originate new equipment leases and loans may be impaired. Even if LEAF is able to renew, extend or replace the facility, the economic terms upon which it is able to do so may be less favorable to LEAF than the terms currently in effect which would reduce LEAF's net revenues and, as a consequence, adversely affect our earnings. Moreover, if LEAF is unable to renew, extend or replace the facility, it will be required to repay the outstanding balance of the facility on its July 31, 2009 maturity. Although we believe that LEAF would repay the balance by accelerating the sale of the assets financed through the facility to the investment partnerships for which they were acquired, if the partnerships lack capacity to purchase the assets at that time, LEAF would have to seek sales to third parties. There can be no assurance that LEAF would be able to make any such sales on acceptable terms, or at all, and, as a consequence, that LEAF would not experience material reductions in net income, or losses which would adversely affect our earnings. (Back to Index) 15 (Back to Index) ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 