ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks that follow together with all of the other information contained in this report in evaluating our company. If any of these risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business Generally Our business depends upon our ability to sponsor and raise investor capital for our investment funds. Our business as a specialized asset manager depends upon our ability to sponsor, and raise capital, through investment funds and to generate management fees by managing those funds and the assets they hold. If we are unable to raise capital through these funds, our ability to increase our managed assets, and thus our revenues from management fees, will be materially impaired. Our ability to raise capital through these funds will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: · the performance of our existing funds; · market acceptance of the types of funds we sponsor and market perceptions about the types of assets which we seek to acquire for our funds; · the availability of qualified personnel to manage our funds; · the availability of suitable investments in the types of loans, real estate, commercial finance assets and other assets that we seek to acquire for our funds; · the availability of financing for the acquisitions of assets, which may be constrained by current dislocations in the credit markets; and · interest rate changes and their effect on both the assets we seek to acquire for our funds, and the amount, cost and availability of acquisition financing. Interest rate changes may reduce the value of our assets, our returns on these assets and our ability to generate and increase our management fee revenues. Changes in interest rates will affect the market value of assets we hold for our own account and our returns from such assets. In general, as interest rates rise, the value of fixed-rate investments, such as equipment leases and notes, will decrease, while as interest rates fall, the return on variable rate assets will fall. In addition, changes in interest rate may affect the value and return on assets we manage for our investment funds, thereby affecting both our management fees from those funds as well as our ability to sponsor additional investment funds, which, in turn, may affect our ability to generate and increase our management fee revenues. Increases in interest rates will increase our operating costs. As of September 30, 2007, we had two corporate credit facilities, three commercial finance credit facilities (one of which expired on October 31, 2007) and, with respect to three CDO issuers we are sponsoring, warehouse credit facilities. We expect that in the course of our operations we will obtain other credit facilities. All of our current credit facilities are at variable interest rates, and we expect that future facilities will also be at variable rates. As a result, increases in interest rates on our credit facilities, to the extent they are with recourse to us and are not matched by increased interest rates or other income from the assets whose acquisition is financed by these facilities or are not subject to effective hedging arrangements, will increase our interest costs, which would reduce our net income or cause us to sustain losses. Financing we obtain, particularly warehouse financing, may require us to maintain a specified ratio of the amount of the loan to the value of the underlying assets. A decrease in the value of these assets may lead to margin calls or calls for the pledge to or deposit with the lender of additional assets. We may not have sufficient funds or unpledged assets to satisfy any calls. 13 Changes in interest rates may impair the operating results of our investment funds and thereby impair our operating results. The investments made by many of our funds are interest-rate sensitive. As a result, changes in interest rates could reduce the value of the assets held and the returns to investors, thereby impairing our ability to raise capital, reducing the management and other fees from those funds and reducing our returns on, and the value of, amounts we have invested in those funds. Declines in the market values of our investments may reduce periodic reported results, credit availability and our ability to make distributions. We classify a substantial portion of our assets for accounting purposes as “available-for-sale.” As a result, changes in the market values of those assets are directly charged or credited to stockholders’ equity. A decline in these values will reduce the book value of our assets. Moreover, if the decline in value of an available-for-sale asset is other than temporary, such decline will reduce earnings. A decline in the market value of our assets may also adversely affect us in instances where we have borrowed money based on the market value of those assets. If the market value of those assets decline, the lender may require us to post additional collateral to support the loan. If we were unable to post the additional collateral, we could have to sell the assets under adverse market conditions. As a result, a reduction in credit availability may reduce our earnings. If we cannot generate sufficient cash to fund our participations in our investment funds, our ability to maintain and increase our revenues may be impaired. We typically participate in our investment funds along with our investors, and believe that our participation enhances our ability to raise capital from investors. We typically fund our participations through cash derived from operations or from financing. If our cash from operations is insufficient to fund our participation in future investment funds we sponsor, and we cannot arrange for financing, our continuing ability to raise funds from investors and, thus, our ability to maintain and increase the revenues we receive from fund management, will be impaired. Termination of management arrangements with one or more of our investment funds could harm our business. We provide management services to our investment funds through management agreements and through our position as the sole or managing general partner of partnership funds or as the operating manager of other fund entities, or combinations thereof. Our arrangements are long-term, and frequently have no specified termination dates. However, our management arrangements with, or our position as general partner or operating manager of, an investment fund typically may be terminated by action taken by the investors. Upon any such termination, our management fees, after payment of any termination payments required, would cease, reducing our expected revenues. We may have difficulty managing our growth which may divert resources and limit our ability to expand our operations successfully. The amount of assets we manage has grown substantially, from $12.1 billion at September 30, 2006 to $16.7 billion at September 30, 2007. Our future success will depend on our ability to continue the growth of our assets under management and, as a result, on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures to deal effectively with the growth we generate. We may not implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Consequently, continued growth may place a strain on our administrative and operations infrastructure, increasing our costs or reducing or eliminating our profitability. 14 Our business will be harmed if we are unable to locate and retain key personnel. Our ability to locate and retain quality personnel has contributed significantly to our growth and success and is important to attracting investors. The market for qualified executives, asset managers and other key personnel is extremely competitive. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. The loss of any of our professional personnel could reduce our revenues and earnings. We are subject to substantial competition in all aspects of our business. Our ability to sponsor investment funds is highly dependent on both our access to various distribution systems of national, regional and local securities firms, and our ability to locate and acquire appropriate assets for our investment funds. We are subject to substantial competition in each area. In the distribution area, our investment funds compete with those sponsored by other asset managers which are being distributed through the same networks as well as investments sponsored by the securities firms themselves. While we have been successful in maintaining access to these distribution channels, we cannot assure you that we will continue to do so. The inability to have continued access to our distribution channels could reduce the number of funds we sponsor and assets we manage, thereby impeding and possibly impairing our revenues and revenue growth. In acquiring appropriate assets for our investment funds, we compete with numerous public and private investment vehicles, commercial banks, investment banks and other financial institutions, as well as industry participants in each of our separate asset management areas. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Competition for desirable investments may result in higher costs and lower investment returns, and may delay our sponsorship of investment funds. There are few economic barriers to entry in the asset management business. Our investment funds compete against an ever-increasing number of investment and asset management products and services sponsored by investment banks, banks, insurance companies, financial services companies and others. There are few economic barriers to entry into the investment or asset management industries and, as a result, we expect that competition for access to distribution channels and appropriate assets to acquire will increase. Risks Relating to Particular Aspects of Our Financial Fund Management, Real Estate and Commercial Finance Operations As a result of recent conditions in the global capital markets, our ability to sponsor investment vehicles and increase our assets under management may be limited in our financial fund management subsidiary. In our financial fund management business, we have used CDO financing to provide term funding for a significant portion of the investment vehicles we sponsor. As a result of recent conditions in the global capital markets, we may be limited in our ability, or unable, to use CDOs for such financing in the future or the issuance of CDOs in the future may be economically unattractive. If we are unable to issue CDOs, or if the issuance of CDOs is economically unattractive, we may have to seek other forms of term financing, which may not be available to us, or, if we have accumulated assets in a warehouse or other short-term facility pending a CDO financing, liquidate assets which may be at a price lower than the acquisition price. Any such occurrence could limit or eliminate our ability to sponsor investment vehicles and increase our assets under management and, accordingly, impair our ability to generate growth in asset management fees. 15 We sometimes retain some portion or possibly all of the equity in the CDOs we sponsor. CDO equity receives distributions from the CDO only if the CDO generates enough income to first pay the holders of the debt securities and expenses. Generally, when we sponsor a CDO issuer, we seek to syndicate the equity in such CDO to third parties. We have sponsored CDOs in which we retain some portion or possibly all of the equity interest either directly or through limited partnership investments. A CDO is a special purpose vehicle that purchases collateral that is expected to generate a stream of interest or other income. The CDO issues various classes of securities that participate in that income stream, typically one or more classes of debt instruments and a class of equity securities. The equity interests are subordinate in right of payment to all other securities issued by the CDO. The equity is usually entitled to all of the income generated by the CDO after the CDO pays all of the interest due on the debt securities and other expenses, and is entitled to a return on capital only when the principal amount and accrued interest of all of the debt securities has been paid. However, there will be little or no income available to the CDO equity if there are excessive defaults by the issuers of the underlying collateral, and there may be little or no amounts available to return our capital. In that event, the value of our direct or indirect investment in the CDO’s equity could decrease substantially or be eliminated. In addition, the equity securities of CDOs are generally illiquid, and because they represent a leveraged investment in the CDO’s assets, the value of the equity securities will generally have greater fluctuations than the value of the underlying collateral. We arrange for warehouse and other short term financing for assets we accumulate for the account of investment vehicles we sponsor. We may guarantee and, with respect to specified asset classes we have guaranteed some portion of amounts drawn on these facilities which exposes us to loss. We typically accumulate assets for the account of investment vehicles we sponsor by using warehouse and other short term financing pending obtaining term financing. If we cannot arrange term financing, short term lenders may liquidate the assets accumulated through their credit facilities which, depending upon market conditions, could be at a price which is less than what we paid. Where we are required to guarantee the short term lender against loss, either generally or subject to negotiated caps, we will have to bear any loss realized, if any, up to the guaranty cap amount. Historically, we have guaranteed portions of warehouse lines with respect to U.S. and European bank loans. Our loss exposure at September 30, 2007 was $26.8 million. On November 20, 2007, we priced a bank loan CLO that we expect will close in December 2007. We anticipate that upon closing, our loss exposure will be reduced to $17.6 million, before taxes. In some of our investment funds, a portion of our management fees may depend upon the performance of the fund and, as a result, our management fee income may be volatile. In 21 of the CDOs we manage, a portion of our management fees is subordinated to the investors’ receipt of specified returns. Also, with respect to RCC and seven of our investment partnerships, we receive incentive or subordinated compensation in addition to our base management fee, depending upon whether RCC or those partnerships achieve returns above specified levels. During fiscal 2006 and 2007, incentive and subordinated management fees were 26% and 33% of our aggregate management fee income. As a result, the amount of our management fee income will depend, to a material extent, upon the performance of the investment vehicles we sponsor and may be volatile. Our income from our interests in the Trapeza CDO program may be volatile. We account for our investments in the Trapeza CDO programs, described in “Business-Financial Fund Management,” under the equity method of accounting. Accordingly, we recognize our percentage share of any income or loss of these entities. Because the Trapeza entities are investment companies for accounting purposes, such income or loss includes a “mark-to-market” adjustment to reflect the net changes in value, including unrealized appreciation or depreciation, in investments and swap agreements. Such value will be impacted by changes in the underlying quality of the Trapeza entities’ investments and by changes in interest rates. To the extent that the Trapeza entities’ investments are securities with a fixed rate of interest, increases in interest rates will likely cause the value of the investments to fall and decreases in interest rates will likely cause the value of the investments to rise. The Trapeza entities’ various interest rate hedge and swap agreements will also change in value with changes in interest rates. Accordingly, our income or loss from our Trapeza CDO program may be volatile. 16 Real estate loans in our portfolio are subject to higher risk of default than conventional mortgage loans. The primary or sole source of recovery for our real estate loans and property interests is typically the underlying real property. Accordingly, the value of our loans and property interests depends upon the value of that real property. Many of the properties underlying our portfolio loans, while income producing, do not generate sufficient revenues to pay the full amount of debt service required under the original loan terms or have other problems. There may be a higher risk of default with these loans as compared to conventional loans. Loan defaults will reduce our current return on investment and may require us to become involved in expensive and time-consuming bankruptcy, reorganization or foreclosure proceedings. Real estate loans in our portfolio require large lump sum payments at maturity, increasing the risk of default. Our loans, including those treated in our consolidated financial statements as FIN 46-R assets and liabilities, typically provide payment structures other than equal periodic payments that retire a loan over its specified term, including structures that defer payment of some portion of accruing interest, or defer repayment of principal, until loan maturity. Where a borrower must pay a loan balance in a large lump sum payment, its ability to satisfy this obligation may depend upon its ability to obtain suitable refinancing or otherwise to raise a substantial cash amount, which we do not control. In addition, lenders can lose their lien priority in many jurisdictions, including those in which our existing loans are located, to persons who supply labor or materials to a property. For these and other reasons, the total amount which we may recover from one of our loans may be less than the total amount of the carrying value of the loan or our cost of acquisition. The value of our portfolio of real estate loans and property interests depends upon the value of the underlying real properties which may decline due to factors beyond our control. Declines in real property values generally and/or in those specific markets where the properties underlying our portfolio of loans and property interests are located could affect the value of those properties and, with respect to our portfolio loans, default rates. Properties underlying our loans and our property interests may be affected by general and local economic conditions, neighborhood values, competitive overbuilding, casualty losses and other factors beyond our control. The value of real properties may also be affected by factors such as the cost of compliance with, and liability under environmental, health and safety laws, changes in interest rates and the availability of financing. Income from a property will be reduced if a significant number of tenants are unable to pay rent or if available space cannot be rented on favorable terms. Operating and other expenses of real properties, particularly significant expenses such as real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs, generally do not decrease when revenues decrease and, even if revenues increase, operating and other expenses may increase faster than revenues. Our portfolio of real estate loans principally consists of junior mortgage loans, which are subject to higher default risks than senior financing. Many of our portfolio loans, including those treated in our consolidated financial statements as FIN 46-R assets and liabilities, are junior lien obligations. Subordinate lien financing poses a greater credit risk, including a substantially greater risk of nonpayment of interest or principal, than senior lien financing. If we or any senior lender forecloses on a loan, we will be entitled to share only in the net foreclosure proceeds after payment to all senior lenders. It is therefore possible that we will not recover the full amount of a foreclosed loan or the amount of our unrecovered investment in the loan. Our real estate loan loss reserve may not be sufficient to cover future losses. At September 30, 2007, our allowance for possible losses was $629,000, which represents 2.3% of the book value of our investments in real estate loans. We cannot assure you that this allowance will prove to be sufficient to cover future losses, or that future provisions for losses will not be materially greater than those we have recorded to date. Losses that exceed our allowance for losses, or cause an increase in our provision for losses, could materially reduce our earnings. 17 Our real estate loans are illiquid, and we may not be able to divest them in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions. The loans in our portfolio, including those treated in our consolidated financial statements as FIN 46-R assets and liabilities, typically do not conform to standard loan underwriting criteria. Many of our loans are subordinate loans. As a result, our loans are relatively illiquid investments. We may be unable to vary our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions. Hazardous or toxic substances on properties underlying our loans may subject us to environmental liabilities. The existence of hazardous or toxic substances on a property will reduce its value and our ability to sell the property in the event of a default in the loan it underlies. Contamination of a real property by hazardous substances or toxic wastes not only may give rise to a lien on that property to assure payment of the cost of remediation, but also can result in liability to us as an owner, lender or, if we assume management, as an operator, for that cost regardless of whether we know of, or are responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if we arrange for disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site, even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses to remediate contaminated properties and may materially limit use of these properties. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Our equipment leases and commercial notes may have greater risks of default than senior secured loans. While we expect that we will transfer our commercial financing assets, principally direct financing leases, operating leases and equipment notes, to third party programs or, to a lesser extent, RCC, we typically retain some assets for our own account. Many of the entities seeking equipment financing from us are small- to middle-size businesses. As a result, we may be subject to higher risks of a default than if we provided equipment financing to larger businesses. While we will seek to repossess and re-lease or sell the equipment subject to a defaulted lease or other commercial finance instrument, we may not be able to do so on advantageous terms. If a borrower files for protection under the bankruptcy laws, we may experience difficulties and delays in recovering the equipment. Moreover, the equipment may be returned in poor condition and we may be unable to enforce important lease or loan provisions against an insolvent borrower, including the contract provisions that require the borrower to return the equipment in good condition. In some cases, the deteriorating financial condition of a borrower may make trying to recover what it owes impractical. The costs of recovering equipment upon a default, enforcing obligations under the lease or loan, and transporting, storing, repairing and finding a new borrower or purchaser for the equipment may be high. Higher than expected lease defaults will result in a loss of anticipated revenues. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 18 ITEM 