ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.You should carefully consider the following risks together with all of the other information contained in this report in evaluating our company. If any of these risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline.Risks Related to Our Business GenerallyOur business depends upon our ability to sponsor, and raise debt and equity capital for, our investment funds.Our business as a specialized asset manager depends upon our ability to sponsor investment funds, raise sufficient equity capital and debt financing for these funds and to generate management fees by managing these funds and the assets they hold. If we are unable to raise capital or obtain financing through these funds, we will not be able to increase our assets under management and, accordingly, increase our revenues from management fees. Moreover, because many of our investment funds have limited terms, an inability to sponsor new investment funds could result in reduced assets under management and, accordingly, reduce our management fee revenues over time. Our ability to raise capital and obtain financing through these funds depends upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:•existing capital markets conditions which may affect: interest rates, the availability of acquisition financing as well as the amount and cost of such financing, and the returns we are able to achieve on our investments; asset valuation and pricing; and our ability to refinance or exit and realize value from investments made for the funds;•market acceptance of the types of funds we sponsor and market perceptions about the types of assets which we seek to acquire for our funds;•the willingness or ability of investors to invest in long-term, relatively illiquid investments of the type we sponsor;•the performance of our existing funds relative to market performance generally and to the performance of similar types of funds;•the availability of qualified personnel to manage our funds; andBack to Index10Back to Index•the availability of suitable investments on acceptable terms of the type we seek to acquire for our funds.Under current market conditions, our ability to raise equity capital from both retail and institutional investors may not be at the same levels that we have achieved historically. While we successfully raised a total of $635.0 million in equity capital through the sponsorship of RRE Opportunity REIT I, we cannot assure you that we will have similar success in our fundraising efforts for RRE Opportunity REIT II, or for any other investment entities we may support.Declines in the market values of our investments may reduce our earnings and the availability of credit.We classify a portion of our assets for accounting purposes as “available-for-sale.” As a result, changes in the market values of those assets are directly charged or credited to stockholders' equity. A decline in these values will reduce the book value of our assets. Moreover, if the decline in value of an available-for-sale asset is other-than-temporary, such decline will reduce earnings. As a result of market conditions, the market value of many of our assets has declined and we have classified material amounts of these declines as other-than-temporary. We cannot assure you that there will not be further declines in the value of our assets, or that the declines will not be material, or that they will not be other-than-temporary.A decline in the market value of our assets may also adversely affect us in instances where we have borrowed money based on the market value of those assets or seek new borrowings. If the market value of assets securing an existing loan declines, the lender may reduce availability (if the loan is a line of credit), require us to post additional collateral or require us to pay down the loan so that it meets specified loan to collateral value ratios. If we were unable to post the additional collateral, we could have to sell the assets under adverse market conditions which could result in losses and which could result in us failing our debt covenants. Moreover, a decline in asset values could limit our ability to obtain financing in the amounts we seek or require us to provide more collateral to secure proposed financing.Market changes, including changes in interest rates, may reduce the value of our assets, our returns on these assets and our ability to generate and increase our management fee revenues.Market changes, including changes in interest rates, will affect the market value of assets we hold for our own account and our returns from such assets. In general, as interest rates rise, the value of fixed-rate investments will decrease, while as interest rates fall, the return on variable rate assets will fall. In addition, changes in interest rates may affect the value and return on assets we manage for our investment funds, thereby affecting both our management fees from those funds (and, in particular, any performance-based or incentive fees; see "In some of our investment funds, a portion of our management fees may depend upon the performance of the fund and, as a result, our management fee income may be volatile") as well as our ability to sponsor additional investment funds, which, in turn, may affect our ability to generate and increase our management fee revenues.Increases in interest rates will increase our operating costs.As of December 31, 2013, we had two corporate credit facilities that were subject to variable interest rates. We may seek to obtain other credit facilities depending upon capital markets conditions. Any facilities that we may be able to obtain may also be at variable rates. As a result, increases in interest rates on such credit facilities, to the extent they are with recourse to us and are not matched by increased interest rates or other income from the assets whose acquisition was financed by these facilities, or are not subject to effective hedging arrangements, will increase our interest costs, which would reduce our net income or cause us to sustain losses. For a discussion of the effects of interest rate changes on our interest expense relating to our corporate credit facilities, see Part II, Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" in this filing.Changes in interest rates may impair the operating results of our investment funds and thereby impair our operating results.The investments made by many of our funds are interest rate sensitive. As a result, changes in interest rates could reduce the value of the assets held by those funds and the returns to investors, thereby impairing our ability to raise capital (see “- Our business depends upon our ability to sponsor, and raise debt and equity capital for, our investment funds,” above), reducing the management and other fees from those funds and reducing our returns on, and the value of, amounts we have invested in those funds.If we cannot generate sufficient cash to fund our participations in our investment funds, our ability to maintain and increase our revenues may be impaired.We typically participate in our investment funds along with our investors, and believe that our participation enhances our ability to raise capital from investors. We typically fund our participations through cash derived from operations or from financing. If our cash from operations is insufficient to fund our participation in future investment funds we sponsor, we may seek to obtain funding from capital markets which may be unavailable to us, or cause us to incur significant costs, which would impede our ability to raise funds from investors and, thus, our ability to maintain and increase the revenues we receive from fund management. Back to Index11Back to IndexTermination of management arrangements with one or more of our investment funds could harm our business.We provide management services to our investment funds through management agreements, through our position as the sole or managing general partner of partnership funds, through our position as the operating manager of other fund entities, or combinations thereof. Our arrangements are long-term, and frequently have no specified termination dates. However, our management arrangements with, or our position as general partner or operating manager of, an investment fund typically may be terminated by action taken by the investors. Upon any such termination, our management fees, after payment of any termination payments required, would cease, thereby reducing our expected future revenues. We may have difficulty managing our asset portfolios under current market conditions.Current market conditions have increased the complexity of managing the assets held by us and our investment funds. As a result, we depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures to deal effectively with the complexity of the conditions under which we operate. We may not be able to implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Consequently, we may experience strains on our administrative and operations infrastructure, increasing our costs or reducing or eliminating our profitability.Our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover future losses.At December 31, 2013, our allowance for possible credit losses was $36.2 million on receivables from managed entities, primarily representing 81.6% of the book value of the receivables from our commercial finance managed funds. We cannot assure you that these allowances will prove to be sufficient to cover future losses, or that any future provisions for credit losses that we may record will not be materially greater than those we have recorded to date. Losses that exceed our allowance for credit losses, or cause an increase in our provision for credit losses, could materially reduce our earnings.Many of our assets are illiquid, and we may not be able to divest them in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions. In addition, significant portions of our assets are subject to transfer constraints.Many of our assets do not have ready markets, or there are restrictions on our ability to divest our investment. Moreover, we believe that whatever markets currently exist for many of these assets, particularly real estate and CDO interests, they are more limited than they previously had been due to recessionary conditions from 2007 to 2009 and low growth conditions thereafter. As a result, many of our portfolio assets are relatively illiquid investments. We may be unable to vary our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions or to sell our investments on acceptable terms should we desire or need to do so.We are subject to substantial competition in all aspects of our business.Our ability to sponsor investment funds depends upon our access to various distribution systems of national, regional and local securities firms, and our ability to locate and acquire appropriate assets for our investment funds. We are subject to substantial competition in each area, and in some cases, competition has caused price increases, which has reduced the discount at which many properties sell, making them less attractive from an investment standpoint. In the distribution area, our investment funds compete with those sponsored by other asset managers, which are being distributed through the same networks, as well as investments sponsored by the securities firms themselves; none of the distribution systems which we access has any obligation to sell any of the interests in our investment funds. While we have been successful in maintaining access to these distribution systems, we cannot assure you that we will continue to do so. If access to one or more of our distribution channels is limited or terminated, the number of funds we sponsor and assets we manage could be reduced, thereby impeding and possibly impairing our revenues and revenue growth.In acquiring appropriate assets for our investment funds, we compete with numerous public and private investment entities, commercial banks, investment banks and other financial institutions, as well as industry participants, in each of our separate asset management areas. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Competition for desirable investments may result in higher costs and lower investment returns, and may delay our sponsorship of investment funds.There are few economic barriers to entry in the asset management business.Our investment funds compete against an ever-increasing number of investment and asset management products and services sponsored by investment banks, banks, insurance companies, financial services companies and others. There are few economic barriers to entry into the investment or asset management industries and, as a result, we expect that competition for access to distribution channels and appropriate assets to acquire will increase.Back to Index12Back to IndexOur ability to realize our deferred tax asset may be reduced, which may adversely impact results of operations.Realization of a deferred tax asset requires us to exercise significant judgment and is inherently uncertain because it requires the prediction of future occurrences. We may reduce our deferred tax asset in the future if estimates of projected income or our tax planning strategies do not support the amount of the deferred tax asset or if there are unanticipated changes in future tax rates. If we determine that a valuation allowance with respect to our deferred tax asset is necessary, we may incur a charge to earnings.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, may be detrimental to our business.The Dodd-Frank Act has had a significant impact on us and the financial services industry due to increased compliance costs, hedging activities regulation, and broker-dealer compliance. Because much of the Dodd-Frank Act creates a framework through which regulatory reform will be promulgated, rather than providing regulatory reform itself, some of the impacts of the act are not fully known yet.Failure to maintain adequate infrastructure could impede our productivity and growth.Our infrastructure, including our technological capacity and office space, is important to our ability to conduct our operations. Failure to maintain an adequate infrastructure commensurate with the size and scope of our business could impede our productivity and growth, which could cause our earnings or stock price to decline. Furthermore, we are highly dependent on various software applications, technologies and other systems for our business to function properly and to safeguard confidential information; any significant limitation, failure or security breach of these systems could constrain our operations. We utilize software and related technologies throughout our business to, among other things, obtain asset pricing information, process client transactions, and provide reports and other customer services to the clients of the funds we manage. Although we take protective measures, including measures to effectively secure information through system security technology and established and tested business continuity plans, we may experience system delays and interruptions as a result of natural disasters, power failures, acts of war and third-party failures. We cannot predict with certainty all of the adverse effects that could result from our failure, or the failure of a third-party, to efficiently address and resolve these delays and interruptions. These adverse effects could include the inability to perform critical business functions or failure to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, which could lead to loss of client confidence, harm to our reputation, exposure to disciplinary action and liability to our clients. Accordingly, potential system failures and the cost necessary to correct those failures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business prospects. In addition, we could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard sensitive and confidential information. As part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations. Although we take protective measures, our systems could still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other events that have a security impact, such as an authorized employee or vendor inadvertently or intentionally causing us to release confidential or proprietary information. Such disclosure could, among other things, allow competitors access to our proprietary business information and require significant time and expense to investigate and remediate the breach. Moreover, loss of confidential client information could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect confidential personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenues.Risks Relating to Particular Aspects of Our Real Estate, Financial Fund Management and Commercial Finance OperationsAs a result of current conditions in the global credit markets, our ability to sponsor investment entities in our financial fund management business and increase our assets under management may be limited.Our financial fund management business historically has consisted of the sponsorship and management of CLO issuers. As a result of conditions in the global credit markets, sponsorship of new CLOs was impracticable in 2010 and constrained significantly in 2011. The market for issuing CLOs improved in 2012 and 2013. Moreover, our ability to sponsor investment funds in our real estate segment is significantly affected by our ability to obtain financing for the funds and the assets they acquire. Although in 2011, 2012 and 2013 we were able to obtain financing necessary for us and our investment funds, we are aware that, in general, lending standards are tighter and credit availability is more constricted than in the past. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain new financing or refinance existing financing in the future on acceptable financial terms, or at all. An inability to obtain financing could limit or eliminate our ability to sponsor investment entities and increase our assets under management and, accordingly, impair our ability to generate asset management fees.Back to Index13Back to IndexWe typically have retained some portion or all of the equity in the CDOs or CLOs we sponsored. CDO equity receives distributions from the CDO only if the CDO generates enough income to first pay the holders of the debt securities and the CDO's expenses.We typically have retained some portion or all of the equity interest in CDOs and CLOs we sponsored either directly or through limited partnership investments. The equity is usually entitled to all of the income generated by the CDO after the CDO pays all of the interest due on the debt securities and its other expenses, and is entitled to a return on capital only when the principal amount and accrued interest of all of the debt securities has been paid. However, there will be little or no income available to the CDO equity if covenants regarding the operations of a CDO (primarily relating to the value of collateral and interest coverage) are not met, or if there are excessive payment defaults, payment deferrals or rating agency downgrades with respect to the issuers of the underlying collateral, and there may be little or no amounts available to return our capital. In that event, our revenues from and the value of our direct or indirect investment in the CDO's equity, which for all CDOs was $7.1 million at December 31, 2013, could decrease substantially or be eliminated. In addition, the equity securities of CDOs are generally illiquid and, because they represent a leveraged investment in the CDO's assets, the value of the equity securities will generally have greater fluctuations than the value of the underlying collateral.In some of our investment funds, a portion of our management fees may depend upon the performance of the fund and, as a result, our management fee income may be volatile.As of December 31, 2013, with respect to RSO and nine of our investment entities, we receive incentive or subordinated compensation in addition to our base management fee depending upon whether RSO or those partnerships achieve returns above specified levels. In addition, a portion of our management fees is subordinated to the investors' receipt of specified returns in one of the CLOs we manage. During 2013 and 2012, we earned incentive and subordinated management fees from RSO and from seven and 15 CLOs, respectively, which constituted 9% and 28%, respectively, of our aggregate management fee income for both periods. Low growth or recessionary conditions in the national economy may result in the amount of incentive or subordinated management fee income we receive being reduced or possibly eliminated, and may cause these fees to be subject to high volatility.Our real estate investment funds hold loans in their portfolios that are subject to a higher risk of loss than conventional mortgage loans.The real estate investment funds that we have sponsored and manage, which we refer to as our RRE Funds, and from which we derive management and other fees, hold loans secured by real estate. In many instances, the loans in their portfolios have terms that differ significantly from conventional mortgage loans. In particular, these loans may:•be junior mortgage loans;•involve payment structures other than equal periodic payments that retire a loan over its term;•require the borrower to pay a large lump sum at loan maturity (which will depend upon the borrower's ability to obtain financing or otherwise raise a substantial amount of cash at maturity); and•be secured by properties that, while producing income, do not generate sufficient revenues to pay the full amount of debt service on the loan as originally structured.As a result, these real estate loans may have a higher risk of default and loss than conventional mortgage loans, and may require the RRE Funds to become involved in expensive and time-consuming workouts, or bankruptcy, reorganization or foreclosure proceedings. Both the RRE Funds' real estate held and the real estate securing their loans is typically the principal or sole source of recovery for these real estate loans, and thus the value and performance of the RRE Funds will depend upon local, regional and national economic conditions, and conditions affecting the property specifically, including the cost of compliance with, and liability under environmental, health and safety laws, changes in interest rates and the availability of financing, casualty losses, the attractiveness of the property, the availability of tenants, the ability of tenants to pay rent, competition from similar properties in the area and neighborhood values. Operating and other expenses of real properties, particularly significant expenses such as real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs, generally do not decrease when revenues decrease and, even if revenues increase, operating and other expenses may increase faster than revenues.Back to Index14Back to IndexWe will likely incur losses from our retention of the management of four commercial finance investment funds.In 2011, we transferred substantially all of our commercial finance operations to LEAF and, in November 2011, as a result of the November 2011 LEAF transaction, we deconsolidated LEAF, while retaining a minority interest in it. However, we retained the obligation to manage four equipment leasing partnerships funds. See Item 1, "Business-Commercial Finance." In connection therewith, we have entered into a sub-servicing agreement with LEAF to service the leases held by these funds. Although we waived receipt of all future management fees, we are still obligated to pay sub-servicing fees to LEAF. Furthermore, we along with one of the commercial finance investment partnerships whose management we have retained, have provided a limited guarantee to the lender with respect to the partnership's outstanding debt, see Note 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Commitments and Contingencies"). We may be unable to continue to attract, motivate and retain key personnel, and the cost to retain key personnel could put pressure on our operating margin. Our business depends on our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled, and often highly specialized, technical, managerial and executive personnel; there is no assurance that we will be able to do so. If our revenues decline during future periods, it will place significant added pressure on our ability to pay our employees at competitive levels. Our operating margin may decline if we increase compensation to retain key personnel without a commensurate increase in revenues.Failure to comply with the Securities Exchange Act, Investment Advisers Act and related regulations could result in substantial harm to our reputation and results of operations.Certain of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer, are registered with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act or the Investment Advisers Act. The Investment Advisers Act and the Securities Exchange Act impose numerous obligations and duties, respectively, on registered broker-dealers and registered investment advisers, including record-keeping, operating and marketing requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities, as well as additional detailed operational and compliance requirements. The failure of any of the relevant subsidiaries to comply with the either such act could cause the SEC to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations, including censure, fines or termination of registration, and could lead to harm to our reputation, any of which could cause our earnings or stock price to decline.As a result of our consolidation of RSO, our financial statements will be materially different from those we have heretofore issued as a separate entity, and will be affected by risks principally relating to RSO and not to us. Following a re-evaluation of applicable accounting literature, management determined that we must treat RSO as a consolidated variable interest entity rather than as an unconsolidated variable interest entity as we have done previously. RSO has substantially greater assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses than we have as a separate company and, accordingly, our financial statements are substantially different from the financial statements we would present if we were not required to consolidate RSO. As a result of the consolidation of RSO, certain of the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses set forth in our financial statements will be affected by risks affecting RSO. We refer you to a discussion of those risks set forth in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” beginning on page 17 of RSO’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, a copy of which such discussion is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.4, and which is hereby incorporated herein by this reference. Back to Index15