Item 1A: Risk Factors In addition to the other information included elsewhere in this report and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,” the following factors could significantly affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or future prospects. Any of the following risks, either alone or taken together, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or future prospects. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, our actual results may be materially adversely affected. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or future prospects. We are subject to credit risk in connection with our lending activities, and our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted by economic conditions and other factors that adversely affect our borrowers. Our financial condition and results of operations are affected by the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, and in a timely manner. Lending money is a significant part of the banking business. Borrowers, however, do not always repay their loans. The risk of non-payment is assessed through our underwriting and loan review procedures based on several factors including credit risks of a particular borrower, changes in economic conditions, the duration of the loan and in the case of a collateralized loan, uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral and other factors. Despite our efforts, we do and will experience loan losses, and our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our non-performing assets were approximately $55.2 million at December 31, 12 2010. Our allowance for loan losses was approximately $11.4 million at December 31, 2010. Our loans between thirty and fifty-nine days delinquent totaled $1.7 million at December 31, 2010. Our concentration of commercial real estate loans could result in increased loan losses and costs of compliance. A substantial portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of commercial real estate loans. The commercial real estate market is cyclical and poses risks of loss to us because of the concentration of commercial real estate loans in our loan portfolio, and the lack of diversity in risk associated with such a concentration. Banking regulators have been giving and continue to give commercial real estate lending greater scrutiny, and banks with larger commercial real estate loan portfolios are expected by their regulators to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress-testing practices to manage risks associated with commercial real estate lending. In addition, commercial real estate lenders are making greater provisions for loan losses and accumulating h igher capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending exposures. Additional losses or regulatory requirements related to our commercial real estate loan concentration could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to absorb actual loan losses, and we may be required to make further provisions for loan losses and charge off additional loans in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our business. We attempt to maintain an allowance for loan losses, established through a provision for loan losses accounted for as an expense, which is adequate to absorb losses inherent in our loan portfolio. If our allowance for loan losses is inadequate, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The determination of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses. Increases in nonperforming loans have a significant impact on our allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to absorb actual loan losses. If current trends in the real estate markets continue, we could continue to experience increased delinquencies and credit losses, particularly with res pect to real estate construction and land acquisition and development loans and one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. Moreover, we expect that the current recession will negatively impact economic conditions in our market areas and that we could experience significantly higher delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we will continue to make provisions for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to our internal processes for determining loss allowances, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase the provision for loan losses or to recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments that differ from those of our management. If loan charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need to increase our allowance for loan losses. Furthermore, growth in our loan portfolio would generally lead to an increase in the provision for loan losses. Any increases in our allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 13 We are required to make significant estimates and assumptions in the preparation of our financial statements, including with respect to our allowance for loan losses, and our estimates and assumptions may not be accurate. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, require our management to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of income and expense during the reporting periods. Critical estimates are made by management in determining, among other things, the allowance for loan losses, carrying values of other real estate owned, and income taxes. If our underlying estimates and assumptions prove to be incorrect, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely effected. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by other-than-temporary impairment charges relating to our investment portfolio. During both 2010 and 2009, we recorded other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain bank pooled trust preferred securities, and we may be required to record future impairment charges on our investment securities if they suffer declines in value that we determine are other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including the lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, the absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in the business climate, adverse regulatory actions or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment, could have a negative effect on our investment portfolio in future periods. If an impairment charge is significant enough, it could affect the Bank’s ability to pay dividends, which could materially adversely affect us and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. Significant impairment charges could also negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios and result in us not being classified as “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes. Our net interest income, net income and results of operations are sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates. Our net income depends on the net income of Republic, and Republic is dependent primarily upon its net interest income, which is the difference between the interest earned on its interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and the interest paid on its interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Our results of operations will be affected by changes in market interest rates and other economic factors beyond our control. If our interest-earning assets have longer effective maturities than our interest-bearing liabilities, the yield on our interest-earning assets generally will adjust more slowly than the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities, and, as a result, our net interest income generally will be adversely affected by material and prolonged increases in interest rates, and positively affected by comparable declines in interest rates. Conversely, if liabilities re-price more slowly than assets, net interest income would be adversely affected by declining interest rates, and positively affected by increasing interest rates. At any time, our assets and liabilities will reflect interest rate risk of some degree. In addition to affecting interest income and expense, changes in interest rates also can affect the value of our interest-earning assets, comprising fixed- and adjustable-rate instruments, as well as the ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets. Generally, the value of fixed-rate instruments fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates, and changes in interest rates may therefore have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. 14 We are a holding company dependent for liquidity on payments from our banking subsidiary, which payments are subject to restrictions. We are a holding company and depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from Republic to fund dividend payments, if any, and to fund all payments on obligations. Republic and its subsidiaries are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to us. Restrictions or regulatory actions of that kind could impede our access to funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations or dividend payments, if any. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. During 2008 and 2009, higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased resolution costs of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the FDIC, and depleted the deposit insurance fund. In addition, the FDIC and the U.S. Congress have taken action to increase federal deposit insurance coverage, placing additional stress on the deposit insurance fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC increased assessment rates of insured institutions uniformly by seven cents for every $100 of deposits beginning with the first quarter of 2009, with additional changes beginning April 1, 2009, which require riskier institutions to pay a larger share of premiums by factoring in rate adjustments based on secured liabilities and unsecured debt levels. To further support the rebuilding of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on each insured institution, equal to five basis points of the institution’s total assets minus Tier 1 capital as of September 30, 2009. For us, this represents an aggregate charge of approximately $0.4 million, which was recorded as a pre-tax charge during the second quarter of 2009. The FDIC has indicated that future special assessments are possible, although it has not determined the magnitude or timing of any future assessments. In November 2009, the FDIC also imposed a 13-quarter prepayment of FDIC premiums. The prepayment will be used to offset future FDIC premiums beginning with the March 31, 2010 payment. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums. Our expenses for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were significantly and adversely affected by these increased premiums and the special assessment. These increases and assessment and any future increases in insurance premiums or additional special assessments may materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is concentrated in and dependent upon the continued growth and welfare of our primary market area. Our primary service area consists of Greater Philadelphia and Southern New Jersey. Our success depends upon the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in this area. Although our customers’ businesses and financial interests may extend well beyond this area, adverse economic conditions that affect our primary service area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us, and generally adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Because of our geographic concentration, we are less able than other regional or national financial institutions to diversify our credit risks across multiple markets. 15 Unfavorable economic and financial market conditions may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Economic and financial market conditions in the United States and around the world may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Conditions such as slow or negative growth and the sub-prime debt devaluation crisis have resulted in a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. These economic developments could have various effects on our business, including: • increasing our credit risk, by increasing the likelihood that our major customers become insolvent and unable to satisfy their obligations to us; • impairing our ability to originate loans, by making our customers and prospective customers less willing to borrow, and making loans that meet our underwriting criteria difficult to find; and • limiting our interest income, by depressing the yields we are able to earn on our investment portfolio. These potential effects are difficult to forecast and mitigate. Distress in the credit markets and issues relating to liquidity among financial institutions have resulted in the failure of some financial institutions and others have been forced to seek acquisition partners. The United States and other governments have taken unprecedented steps in an effort to stabilize the financial system, including investing in financial institutions. These efforts, however, may not succeed. Our business as well as our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by continued or accelerated disruption and volatility in financial markets, continued capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions, limitations resulting from further governmental action in an effort to stabili ze or provide additional regulation of the financial system, and recessionary conditions that are deeper or longer lasting than currently anticipated. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future tax payments may be limited. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $14.5 million of U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforwards, referred to as “NOLs,” available to reduce taxable income in future years. Utilization of the NOLs may be subject to a substantial annual limitation due to ownership change limitations that may have occurred or that could occur in the future, as required by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, referred to as the “Code.” These ownership changes may limit the amount of NOLs that can be utilized annually to offset future taxable income and tax, respectively. In general, an ownership change, as defined by Section 382 of the Code results from a transaction or series of transactions over a three-year period resulting in an ownership change of more than 50 percentage points of the outstanding stock of a company by certain stockholders or public groups. In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post-ownership change taxable inc ome a corporation may offset with pre-ownership change NOLs. The limitation imposed by Section 382 for any post-change year would be determined by multiplying the value of our stock immediately before the ownership change (subject to certain adjustments) by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years, and the limitation may under certain circumstances be increased by built-in gains which may be present with respect to assets held by us at the time of the ownership change that are recognized in the five-year period after the ownership change. Our use of NOLs arising after the date of an ownership change would not be affected. 16 In addition, the ability to use NOLs will be dependent on our ability to generate taxable income. The NOLs may expire before we generate sufficient taxable income. There were no NOLs that expired in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. There are no NOLs that could expire if not utilized for the year ending December 31, 2011. Our assets as of December 31, 2010 included a deferred tax asset and we may not be able to realize the full amount of such asset. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2010, the net deferred tax asset was approximately $12.8 million, compared to a balance of approximately $6.9 million at December 31, 2009. The increase in net deferred tax asset resulted mainly from an increase in the net operating loss carryforward balance. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability based on history of earnings, expectations for future earnings and expected timing of reversals of temporary differences. Realization of deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income, including taxable income in prior carryback years, as well as future taxable income. We believe the recorded net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2010 is fully realizable; however, if we determine that we will be unable to realize all or part of the net deferred tax asset, we would adjust this deferred tax asset, which would negatively impact our earnings or increase our net loss. We may not be able to manage our growth, which may adversely impact our financial results. As part of our retail growth strategy, we may expand into additional communities or attempt to strengthen our position in our current markets by opening new stores and acquiring existing stores of other financial institutions. To the extent that we undertake additional stores openings and acquisitions, we are likely to experience the effects of higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations, which may have an adverse effect on our levels of reported net income, return on average equity and return on average assets. Other effects of engaging in such growth strategies may include potential diversion of our management’s time and attention and general disruption to our business. As part of our retail strategy, we plan to open new stores in our primary service area, including Southern New Jersey. We may not, however, be able to identify attractive locations on terms favorable to us, obtain regulatory approvals, or hire qualified management to operate new stores. In addition, the organizational and overhead costs may be greater than we anticipate. New stores may take longer than expected to reach profitability, or may not become profitable. The additional costs of starting new stores may adversely impact our financial results. Our ability to manage growth successfully will depend on whether we can continue to fund our growth while maintaining cost controls, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as national and regional economic conditions and interest rate trends. If we are not able to control costs, such growth could adversely impact our earnings and financial condition. We rebranded Republic First Bank as “Republic Bank” which may be more costly than anticipated or may fail to achieve its intended result. In connection with our change in strategy to internally grow our brand, during 2010 we rebranded our stores and now operate under the name, “Republic Bank,” the name under which Republic was incorporated and under which it did business from 1988 until 1996. Several companies in the United States, including companies in the banking and financial services industries, use variations of the word “Republic,” as well as a stylized "R," as part of a trademark or trade name. As such, we face potential 17 objections to our use of these marks. If there are any objections, we may incur additional costs to defend our use, and may be required to further rebrand our banking business. Our rebranding efforts may not achieve their intended results, which include enhancing our brand and increasing our retail business. Our retail strategy relies heavily on our management team, and the unexpected loss of key managers may adversely affect our operations. Since June 2008, we have been successful in attracting new, talented management to Republic, to add to our management team. Many of these new people joined us when we were planning to merge with Metro Bancorp, Inc. We believe that our ability to successfully implement our retail strategy will require us to retain and attract additional management experienced in banking and financial services, and familiar with the communities in our market. Our ability to retain executive officers, the current management teams, branch managers and loan officers of Republic will continue to be important to the successful implementation of our strategy. It is also critical, as we grow, to be able to attract and retain qualified additional management and loan officers with the appropriate level of experience an d knowledge about our market areas to implement the community-based operating strategy. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to numerous governmental regulations and to comprehensive examination and supervision by regulators, which could have an adverse impact on our operations and could restrict the scope of our operations. Both we and Republic operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and regulation by several governmental regulatory agencies, including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, FDIC and the Pennsylvania Department of Banking. We are subject to federal and state regulations governing virtually all aspects of our activities, including lines of business, capital, liquidity, investments, payment of dividends, and others. Regulations that apply to us are generally intended to provide protection for depositors and customers rather than for investors. We are also subject to comprehensive examination and supervision by banking and other regulatory bodies. Examination reports and ratings (which often are not publicly available) and other aspects of this supervisory framework can materially impact the conduct, growth, and profitability of our businesses. In response to our May 2009 examination, Republic and its board entered into an informal agreement with the FDIC and the Pennsylvania Department of Banking to enhance a variety of Republic’s policies, procedures and processes regarding asset quality, earnings and loan concentrations. Similarly, following our March 2008 compliance examination, Republic and its board entered into an informal agreement with the FDIC. Republic was required to improve its policies, procedures and processes relating to its compli ance monitoring functions. We have implemented a number of changes to Republic’s policies, procedures and processes, which management believes address most of the issues raised in these informal agreements. A failure to have adequate procedures to comply with regulatory requirements could expose us to damages, fines and regulatory penalties, which could be significant, and could also injure our reputation with customers and others with whom we do business. We are also subject to extensive regulation and supervision under federal and state laws and regulations. The requirements and limitations imposed by such laws and regulations limit the manner in which we conduct our business, undertake new investments and activities and obtains financing. Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years and may be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, none of which is within our control. New programs and proposals may subject us and other financial institutions to additional restrictions, oversight and costs that may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock. Federal and state regulatory agencies also 18 frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied or enforced. We cannot predict the substance or impact of future legislation, regulation or the application thereof. Compliance with such current and potential regulation and scrutiny may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, require us to increase our regulatory capital and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act recently became law and implements significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape that will impact all financial institutions, including us and Republic. The Dodd-Frank Act is likely to increase our regulatory compliance burden. It is too early, however, for us to assess the full impact that the Dodd-Frank Act may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Many of the Dodd-Frank Act’s provisions require subsequent regulatory rulemaking. The Dodd-Frank Act’s significant regulatory changes include the creation of a new financial consumer protection agency, known as the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, that is empowered to promulgate new consumer protection regulations and revise existing regulations in many areas of consumer compliance, which will increase our regulatory compliance burden and costs and may restrict the financial products and services we offer to our customers. Moreover, the Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt stricter consumer protection laws and states’ attorneys general may enforce consumer protection rules issued by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies by, among other things, imposing leverage ratios on bank holding companies and prohibiting new trust preferred issuances from counting as Tier 1 capital. These restrictions will limit our future capital strategies. The Dodd-Frank Act also increases regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions, which could limit our ability to enter into, or increase the costs associated with, interest rate and other hedging transactions. Although certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, such as direc t supervision by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, will not apply to banking organizations with less than $10 billion of assets, such as us, and Republic, the changes resulting from the legislation will impact our business. These changes will require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make necessary changes. We face significant competition in our market from other banks and financial institutions. The banking and financial services industry in our market area is highly competitive. We may not be able to compete effectively in our markets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The increasingly competitive environment is a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, and consolidation among financial service providers. Larger institutions have greater access to capital markets, with higher lending limits and a broader array of services. Competition may require increases in deposit rates and decreases in loan rates, and adversely impact our net interest margin. We may not have the resources to effectively implement new technologies, which could adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations. The financial services industry is constantly undergoing technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations as we continue to grow and expand in our market. Many of our larger competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. As a result, they may be able to offer additional or superior products to those that we will be able to offer, which would put us at a competitive disadvantage. Accordingly, we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing such 19 products and services to our customers. If we are unable to do so, our competitive position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting may not achieve their intended objectives. We maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that we timely report information as specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission, although we have not always so reported. We also maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting. These controls may not achieve their intended objectives. Control processes that involve human diligence and compliance, such as our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, are subject to lapses in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. Controls can also be circumvented by collusion or improper management override. Because of such limitations, there are risks that material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detec ted and that information may not be reported on a timely basis. If our controls are not effective, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and market for our common stock, and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, customer or employee fraud and data processing system failures and errors. Employee errors and misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to financial claims for negligence. We maintain a system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors, and customer or employee fraud. Should our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, these security measures may not be successful. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 20 If we want to, or are compelled to, raise additional capital in the future, that capital may not be available to us when it is needed or on terms that are favorable to us or current shareholders. Federal banking regulators require us, and Republic, to maintain capital to support our operations. Regulatory capital ratios are defined and required ratios are established by laws and regulations promulgated by banking regulatory agencies. At December 31, 2010, our regulatory capital ratios were above “well capitalized” levels under current bank regulatory guidelines. To be “well capitalized,” banking companies generally must maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%. Regulators, however, may require us, or Republic, to maintain higher regulatory capital ratios. For example, regulators recently have required some banks to attain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 8%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%, and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 12%. Our ability to raise additional capital in the future will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, on our financial performance and on other factors. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital on terms and time frames acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital in sufficient amounts when needed, our ability to comply with regulatory capital requirements could be materially impaired. Additionally, the inability to raise capital in sufficient amounts may adversely affect our operations, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are nonspecific to us, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative news and expectations about the prospects for the finan cial services industry. If we raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities, we would likely dilute the ownership interests of investors, and could dilute the per share book value and earnings per share of our common stock. Furthermore, a capital raise through issuance of additional shares may have an adverse impact on our stock price. We are exposed to environmental liabilities with respect to real estate that we have or had title to in the past. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. In the course of our business, we may foreclose, accept deeds in lieu of foreclosure, or otherwise acquire real estate, and in doing so could become subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may become responsible to a governmental agency or third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean-up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with environmental investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before acquiring title to any real property, these may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. If we were to become subject to significant environmental liabilities, it could materially and adversely affect us. A substantial decline in the value of our Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh common stock may adversely affect our financial condition. We own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh, or the FHLB, in order to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank system, which enables us to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank advance program. The carrying value and fair market value of our FHLB common stock was $6.4 million as of December 31, 2010. 21 Published reports indicate that certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank system may be subject to asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In December 2008, the FHLB had notified its member banks that it had suspended dividend payments and the repurchase of capital stock until further notice was provided. In October 2010, the FHLB of Pittsburgh repurchased 5% of Republic’s total restricted stock outstanding. Decisions regarding any future repurchases of restricted stock will be made on a quarterly basis. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the FHLB, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, given that there is no market for our FHLB common stock, we be lieve that there is a risk that our investment could be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired at some time in the future. If this occurs, it may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If the FHLB were to cease operations, or if we were required to write-off our investment in the FHLB, our business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations may be materially adversely effected. Our common stock is not insured by any governmental entity and, therefore, an investment in our common stock involves risk. Our common stock is not a deposit account or other obligation of any bank, and is not insured by the FDIC or any other governmental entity, and is subject to investment risk, including possible loss. There may be future sales of our common stock, which may materially and adversely affect market price. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of our common stock. Our issuance of shares of common stock in the future will dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders. Additionally, the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for our common stock, whether directly by us or by existing common shareholders in the secondary market, the perception that such sales could occur or the availability for future sale of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for our common stock could, in turn, materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. We are party to a registration rights agreement with the holders of the convertible trust preferred securities of Republic First Bancorp Capital Trust IV, which requires us, under certain circumstances, to register up to 1.7 mi llion shares of our common stock into which the trust preferred securities may be converted for resale under the Securities Act of 1933. In addition, our board of directors is authorized to designate and issue preferred stock without further shareholder approval, and we may issue other equity securities that are senior to our common stock in the future for a number of reasons, including, without limitation, to support operations and growth, to maintain our capital ratios and to comply with any future changes in regulatory standards. Our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Global Market. During 2010, the average daily trading volume for our common stock was approximately 78,265 shares. Sales of our common stock may place significant downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, it may be difficult for holders to resell their shares at prices they find attractive, or at all. 22 Our common stock is subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness and any preferred stock, and effectively subordinated to all indebtedness and preferred equity claims against our subsidiaries. Shares of our common stock are common equity interests in us and, as such, will rank junior to all of our existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities. Additionally, holders of our common stock may become subject to the prior dividend and liquidation rights of holders of any classes or series of preferred stock that our board of directors may designate and issue without any action on the part of the holders of our common stock. Furthermore, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon any of our subsidiaries’ liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of that subsidiary’s creditors and preferred shareholders. As of December 31, 2010, we had $22.5 million of outstanding debt. Our ability to pay dividends depends upon the results of operations of our subsidiaries. Neither us, nor Republic, has declared or paid cash dividends on its common stock since Republic began operations. Our board of directors intends to follow a policy of retaining earnings for the purpose of increasing our capital for the foreseeable future. Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends if, as and when declared from time to time by our board of directors in its sole discretion out of funds legally available for that purpose, after debt service payments and payments of dividends required to be paid on our outstanding preferred stock, if any. While we, as a bank holding company, are not subject to certain restrictions on dividends applicable to Republic, our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock will depend to a large extent upon the amount of dividends paid by Republic to us. Regulatory authorities restrict the amount of cash dividends Republic can declare and pay without prior regulatory approval. Presently, Republic cannot declare or pay dividends in any one-year in excess of retained earnings for that year subject to risk based capital requirements. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, current and potential shareholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosures and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, referred to as Section 404, we are required to include in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our management’s report on internal control over financial reporting. While we have reported no material weaknesses in the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, we cannot guarantee that we will not have any material weaknesses reported by our independent registered public accounting firm in the future. Compliance with the requirements of Section 404 is expensive and time-consuming. If, in the future, we fail to complete this evaluation in a timely manner we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, any failure to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures could cause our current and potential shareholders and customers to lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosure required under the Exchange Act, which could adversely affect our business. Additionally, to the extent we became an accelerated filer or large accelerated filer, we will be required to receive an attestation report from our independent registered public accounting firm attesting to management’s report on internal c ontrols. 23 Our governing documents, Pennsylvania law, and current policies of our board of directors contain provisions, which may reduce the likelihood of a change in control transaction, that may otherwise be available and attractive to shareholders. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain certain anti-takeover provisions that may make it more difficult or expensive or may discourage a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our board of directors. In particular, the articles of incorporation and bylaws: classify our board of directors into three groups, so that shareholders elect only approximately one-third of the board each year; permit shareholders to remove directors only for cause and only upon the vote of the holders of at least 75% of the voting shares; require our shareholders to give us advance notice to nominate candidates for election to the board of directors or to make shareholder proposals at a shareholders’ meeting; require the vote of the holders of at least 60% of our voting shares for shareholder amen dments to our bylaws; require the vote of the holders of at least 75% of our voting shares to approve certain business combinations; and restrict the holdings and voting rights of shareholders who would acquire more than 10% of our outstanding common stock without the approval of two-thirds of our board of directors. These provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control, even though a majority of our shareholders may consider such proposals desirable. Such provisions could also make it more difficult for third parties to remove and replace the members of our board of directors. Moreover, these provisions could diminish the opportunities for shareholders to participate in certain tender offers, including tender offers at prices above the then-current market value of our common stock, and may also inhibit increases in the trading price of our common stock that could result fro m takeover attempts or speculation. In addition, anti-takeover provisions in Pennsylvania law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. These provisions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could reduce the amount that shareholders might receive if we are sold. For example, Pennsylvania law may restrict a third party’s ability to obtain control of us and may prevent shareholders from receiving a premium for their shares of our common stock. Pennsylvania law also provides that our shareholders are not entitled by statute to propose amendments to our articles of incorporation. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None 