Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business In the event our proposed merger with Nokia is not consummated, our business, results of operations and market price of our common stock would likely be materially and adversely affected. NAVTEQ entered into a merger agreement with Nokia Inc., North Acquisition Corp. and Nokia Corporation on October 1, 2007, pursuant to which Nokia Inc. will acquire NAVTEQ. The announcement and pendency of the merger agreement and merger could have an adverse effect on our business generally, our customer relationships and operating results, and our ability to retain employees, including key employees. In addition, in the event that the conditions to the completion of the merger are not satisfied, including the receipt of the required regulatory approvals, or an event, change or other circumstance occurs that could give rise to the termination of the merger agreement, the merger may not be completed. We have already incurred substantial costs in connection with the proposed merger, including fees of legal and financial advisors and accountants, fees related to stockholder litigation arising out of the announcement of the transaction and significant management resources, and we anticipate incurring additional costs prior to the closing of the merger. If the merger is not completed, we will have incurred these costs for little or no benefit. If the merger is not completed due to certain circumstances specified in the merger agreement, we also may be required to pay Nokia a termination fee of $250 million. Further, if the merger is not completed, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and our customers, suppliers and employees. Each of the factors described above would likely materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and the market price and trading volume of our common stock. In particular, if the merger is not completed for any reason, the market price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed or the market’s perceptions as to the reasons why the merger was not completed. Restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the pending merger with Nokia may negatively impact our results of operations and our competitive position. We are subject to certain restrictions under the merger agreement on the conduct of our business prior to completion of the merger, including not exceeding a certain amount in capital expenditures, not making any acquisitions, not entering into contracts exceeding a certain amount and other matters. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior the completion of the merger with Nokia that could be favorable to us and our stockholders. As a result, if the proposed merger is not completed, our results of operations and competitive position may be adversely affected. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers, and if we are unable to maintain these customer relationships or attract additional customers, our revenue will be adversely affected. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, our revenue from Garmin International accounted for approximately 9% and 15% of our total revenue, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, our revenue from BMW AG accounted for approximately 12% and 9%, respectively, of our total revenue. In addition, sales to our top 15 customers for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007 accounted for approximately 76%, 71% and 65% of our revenue, respectively. Although we have achieved some success in expanding our customer base, we anticipate that a limited number of customers will continue to represent a significant percentage of our revenue for the foreseeable future. In addition, although we have contractual arrangements with most of our key customers, the majority of these arrangements are not long term and generally do not obligate our key customers to make any minimum or specified level of purchases. Therefore, our relationships with these key customers may or may not continue in the future, and we are not guaranteed any minimum level of revenue from them. We cannot assure you that our revenue from our current customers will reach or exceed historical levels in any future period. The loss of one or more of our key customers, or fewer or smaller orders from them, would adversely affect our revenue. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced profit margins or loss of market share by us. The market for map and related information, such as traffic information, is highly competitive. We compete with other companies and governmental and quasi-governmental agencies that provide map and related information to a wide variety of users in a wide range of applications with varying levels of functionality. We currently have several major competitors in providing map information, including Tele Atlas N.V. (which recently announced an agreement to be acquired by TomTom N.V.), Internet-based mapping sites and numerous European governmental and quasi-governmental mapping agencies (e.g., Ordnance Survey in the United Kingdom) that license map data for commercial use, as well as many local competitors in geographic areas outside of North America and Europe. Also, AND Automotive Navigation Data has announced that it will be expanding its coverage of mapping data that supports navigation from countries of Eastern Europe to 14 countries of Western Europe, and Facet Technologies has announced its launch of mapping data that supports navigation for the United States, with plans to expand to Canada and Europe. Governmental and quasi-governmental agencies also are making more map data information with greater coverage and content, and higher quality, available free of charge or at lower prices, which may encourage new market entrants or reduce the demand for fee-based products and services which incorporate our map database. Several companies are also now providing aerial, satellite and other location-based imagery which provides our customers with an alternative to our map data and makes it less costly and time-consuming for competitors to build a high quality map database similar to our database. In addition, some of our customers prefer to license data from several vendors in order to diversify their sources of supply and to maintain competitive and pricing pressures. We expect that we will continue to operate in a highly competitive environment following the closing of TomTom’s acquisition of Tele Atlas. Additionally, we have intense competition in providing traffic information to radio and television stations across the United States as Traffic.com derives the majority of its revenues via advertising on radio and television stations. We have several major competitors, including Westwood One and Clear Channel Communications, that have the ability to provide these services to radio and television stations as well, which could result in price reductions, reduced profit margins or loss of business. These competitors have longer operating histories with respect to traffic information and more established relationships with advertisers. Our traffic data also competes with smaller, start-up companies that make use of publicly available traffic data from government sources. Increased competition from our current competitors or new market entrants (which may include our customers) with respect to quality, content, pricing, alternative location-based imagery and otherwise, actions taken by our customers to diversify their sources of supply and increase pricing pressure, initiatives to develop community and probe-based map or related data, such as traffic data, and other competitive pressures may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins or loss of market share by us. If we are unable to integrate acquired companies effectively, our business could be adversely affected. We may pursue acquisitions of existing companies in order to grow our business, to expand the scope and breadth of our database and to diversify our products and services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate our recent acquisitions of Traffic.com, Inc. and Mapsolute GmbH, Inc. or any future acquisitions, that these acquired companies will operate profitably, or that we will realize the potential benefits from these acquisitions. If we do not successfully integrate acquired companies, the attention of our management may be diverted and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The market for products and services incorporating our map database and the market for Internet and wireless advertising is evolving and its rate of growth is uncertain. Our success depends upon the availability and functionality of our customers’ products and services, and our customers’ abilities to successfully market and sell their products and services incorporating our database. Continued growth in the adoption of route guidance products in the automotive industry and in the consumer mobile device industry (in products such as mobile phones, PDAs and PNDs), technological improvements in wireless devices, such as inclusion of GPS capabilities in mobile devices and increases in functional memory, and continued development by our current and potential customers of dynamic navigation, route planning, location-based services, asset tracking and other geographic-related products and services incorporating our database, are critical to our future growth. If our customers do not continue to successfully develop and market new products and services incorporating our database, or the products that our customers develop and market do not meet consumer expectations in terms of functionality, price and quality, our revenue and operating results will be adversely affected. Even if these products and services continue to be developed and marketed by our customers and gain market acceptance, we may not be able to license the database at prices that will enable us to maintain profitable operations. Growth in the market for vehicle navigation products and services historically has occurred first in Europe and then in North America. If the market growth in North America is not consistent with the growth we have experienced in Europe, our ability to grow our revenue will be adversely affected. In addition, we expect that the retail price for vehicle navigation products and services will significantly decrease, which will result in a more affordable price for consumers and a higher volume of sales of such products and services. This decrease in retail price has not occurred as quickly as we had expected, and the delay or lack of such decreases in the future would adversely affect our future growth. With respect to the Internet and wireless services offered by Traffic.com through its enhanced website and the websites of its customers, it is difficult to predict their demand and market acceptance. The placement of advertisements on Traffic.com’s website or embedded in its wireless services, particularly by those entities that have historically relied upon traditional media for advertising, requires the acceptance of new ways of conducting business, measuring success and evaluating new advertising products and services. Such advertisers may determine that advertising on Traffic.com’s website or in its wireless services is less effective for promoting their products and services than traditional advertising media. Further, new technologies may be developed that can block Traffic.com from displaying Internet advertisements on its website, or including them in its personalized messages. The market for Internet and wireless advertising may not continue to grow or become sustainable. If the market for Internet and wireless advertising fails to continue to develop or develops more slowly than we expect, Traffic.com’s business and results of operations could be harmed, which in turn could harm our business and results of operations. 15 Our product offering is not diversified and if we attempt to diversify, we may not be successful. A substantial portion of our revenue is attributable to the licensing of our map database for route guidance applications. Consequently, if the demand for existing and new products and services incorporating our database declines or does not continue to grow, our business would be seriously harmed. Any attempt by us to diversify our product and service offerings may not be successful and may cause us to divert resources and management attention away from our core business, which could adversely affect our financial position, reputation and relationships with our customers. In addition, with respect to our principal map database product, customers continue to request that additional types of content be included in our data. If we are unable to timely include such content in our product and service offerings or do not effectively determine what types of content to include and the related prioritization of developing such product and service offerings, our customers may purchase map data and related content elsewhere, which would adversely affect our revenue. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our profitability and ability to implement our strategy will be adversely affected. Our continued growth has and will continue to place significant demands on our managerial, operational and financial resources. To accommodate this growth and successfully execute our strategy, we will need to continue to hire additional qualified personnel and implement new or upgraded operating and financial systems and internal operating and financial controls and procedures throughout the Company. Our inability to expand and integrate these additions and upgrades in an efficient and timely manner could cause our expenses to increase, revenue to decline and could otherwise adversely affect our profitability and ability to implement our strategy. We derive the majority of our revenue from the use of our map database in vehicle navigation systems and fluctuations in the condition of the automotive market may result in fluctuations in the demand for products incorporating our database. The use of our database in vehicle navigation systems, which we supply directly and indirectly to automobile manufacturers, historically has accounted for a majority of our revenue. Approximately 72%, 66% and 52% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively, were generated by the sale of our database for use in new automobiles equipped with navigation systems. Any significant downturn in the demand for these products would materially decrease our revenue. The automotive market historically has experienced fluctuations due to increased competition, economic conditions and circumstances affecting the global market for automobiles generally, and additional fluctuations are likely to occur in the future. To the extent that our future revenue depends materially on sales of new automobiles equipped with navigation systems enabled by digital maps, our business may be vulnerable to these fluctuations. With respect to our recently acquired company, Traffic.com, if we do not achieve success with its recently expanded business model into Internet advertising and other interactive media, our ability to grow Traffic.com’s revenues would be adversely affected. Traffic.com’s revenue has historically been derived primarily by selling the advertising inventory it receives in exchange for the provision of its traffic services to radio and television stations. Substantially all of Traffic.com’s revenue from its enhanced website and from personalized wireless services that it offers through its website will be derived from advertising customers. Traffic.com’s success in attracting Internet advertisers will depend, in large part, on its ability to significantly increase the number of visitors to its website, the number of its registered users and the volume of its personalized wireless services delivered to consumers. Traffic.com has no significant operating history in conducting its business through the Internet or in attracting Internet advertisers. Prior to the acquisition, Traffic.com has had minimal revenue from Internet and wireless advertising. If we fail to significantly increase the number of visitors to Traffic.com’s website and the related advertising revenue, our ability to grow Traffic.com’s business will be adversely affected. If federal, state or local government agencies decide not to enter into agreements with Traffic.com or terminate existing agreements with Traffic.com, the expansion and the geographic scope of Traffic.com’s business could be limited. Traffic.com’s right to construct its sensor network in various metropolitan areas and to own the traffic flow data produced by this network is derived from agreements that it has with the U.S. federal government and state and local governments. Traffic.com is the principal subcontractor under a competitively bid contract with the U.S. Department of Transportation (U.S. DOT) and has agreements with state and local agencies under which it provides them with traffic data from its sensor network in metropolitan areas. If the federal government were to terminate Traffic.com’s contract for its failure to perform, Traffic.com’s ability to expand its sensor network into additional metropolitan areas would be harmed. If Traffic.com’s reputation or relationship with state and local government agencies were impaired or if one or more state and local government agencies otherwise ceased doing business with it, Traffic.com may be unable to continue to collect traffic data for one or more metropolitan areas in which its sensor network is currently deployed. As of December 31, 2007, Traffic.com had formal agreements with state and local agencies that enable it to install, operate and maintain its sensor network on public highways in more than 26 major metropolitan areas. Traffic.com’s agreement with the Utah Department of Transportation also provides for the integration of their probe data into Traffic.com’s Traffic Information Management System in Salt Lake City. In addition, Traffic.com has agreements with state and local agencies that enable it to acquire government 16 data that it uses to produce traffic reports. Traffic.com needs similar agreements to enable it to install, operate and maintain its sensors on public highways, and to acquire government data in additional metropolitan areas. Among the factors that could materially adversely affect Traffic.com’s federal and state and local government contracting business are: · budgetary constraints affecting government spending generally, and annual changes in fiscal policies or available funding; · failure by it to comply with the requirements of the agreements, including failure to comply with data specifications and performance measures under its subcontract with the U.S. DOT, which could lead to various remedies being pursued against it, including contract termination, liquidated damages or a local public agency having the right to buy from it all system hardware including, among other items, sensor poles, solar panels and any components from system upgrades for a particular deployment area at fair market value; · changes in government programs, priorities, procurement policies, permit policies or requirements; · new legislation, regulations or government policy changes on the nature and amount of services the government may obtain from private contractors; and · delays in the payment of its invoices by government payment offices due to problems with, or upgrades to, government information systems, or for other reasons. These or other factors could cause governmental agencies to exercise their right to not enter into agreements, to terminate agreements or to not exercise options to renew agreements, any of which could prevent the expansion and limit the geographic scope of Traffic.com’s business. Traffic.com derives a significant portion of its revenue from a limited number of advertisers. If we are unable to maintain these advertiser relationships or attract additional advertisers, or if there is a general downturn in advertising activity, Traffic.com’s revenue will be adversely affected. Traffic.com has had repeat business from many of its key advertisers, however the majority of these arrangements do not obligate these key advertisers to make any minimum or specified level of purchases and the terms of these agreements may change from year to year. Therefore, Traffic.com’s relationships with these key advertisers may not continue in the future, and Traffic.com generally is not guaranteed any minimum level of revenue from them. The loss of one or more of Traffic.com’s large advertisers without replacement by other advertisers of similar size, or fewer or smaller orders, would adversely affect Traffic.com’s revenue. If we were to fail to attract other large customers to replace this revenue or if we did not increase revenue from existing customers, Traffic.com’s future revenue would not reach or exceed its historical levels. Further, spending on advertising tends to decline during an economic recession or downturn. As a result, Traffic.com’s advertising revenue is likely to be adversely affected by a recession or downturn in the United States economy, the economy of an individual geographic market in which it derives significant advertising revenue or other events or circumstances that adversely affect advertising activity. The issuance of shares of our common stock to Traffic.com stockholders as a result of our acquisition of Traffic.com and charges associated with the acquisition may have a negative impact on our earnings per share. As a result of the acquisition of Traffic.com, approximately 3.9 million shares of our common stock have been issued to Traffic.com stockholders, including 57,443 shares issued to Robert Verratti, the former Chief Executive Officer of Traffic.com, pursuant to a bonus payable to him in connection with the acquisition. Based on the increased number of our shares outstanding following the acquisition, Traffic.com’s historical operating losses, the accounting charges related to the acquisition and the potential for additional costs associated with integrating Traffic.com into our business, the acquisition may result in lower earnings per share than would have been earned by us in the absence of the acquisition. We expect that over time the acquisition will yield cost and revenue synergies and other benefits to us such that the acquisition will ultimately be accretive to earnings per share. However, we cannot assure you that an increase in earnings per share will be achieved. In order to achieve increases in earnings per share as a result of the acquisition, we will, among other things, need to increase Traffic.com’s revenues, including significantly growing the business of providing traffic data to new media distribution channels (such as Internet, wireless and in-vehicle navigation applications) and the corresponding advertising revenue associated therewith, successfully integrate Traffic.com’s operations into our business and reduce Traffic.com’s historic increases in operating expenses. If our customers are unable to pay their fees in a timely manner, our revenue and results of operations could be materially negatively impacted. We have a number of customers with individually large amounts due at any given balance sheet date. Any unanticipated change in the creditworthiness of one of these customers or other matters affecting the collectibility of amounts due from these customers could 17 have a material adverse affect on our results of operations in the period in which these changes or events occur and make it difficult to forecast our results. We record allowances for estimated losses from uncollectible accounts based upon specifically-identified amounts that we believe to be uncollectible. In addition, we record additional allowances based on historical experience and our assessment of the general financial condition of our customer base. If our actual collections experience changes, revisions to our allowances may be required. Our credit losses have historically been within both our expectations and the provision recorded, but fluctuations in credit loss rates in the future may affect our financial results. We are experiencing significant changes in our customer base which is resulting in new challenges that may decrease our growth, negatively impact our business and make it more difficult to forecast our results. Revenue derived from the use of our data in location-enabled mobile devices, as opposed to in-vehicle navigation devices, is becoming a much more significant part of our overall operating results. This shift is requiring us to focus on a number of factors, including the following: · incorporating alternative pricing structures into our business models; · the importance of brand awareness and loyalty; · serving a larger number of small customers; and · shorter design cycles which makes it easier to substitute map data. If we are unable to effectively respond to these factors, our growth and business would be negatively affected. In addition, our total revenue will likely have a more seasonal pattern with first quarter revenue generally being relatively weaker than other quarters and fourth quarter revenue generally being relatively stronger than other quarters. Since we are in the early stages of this shift in our revenue, our ability to forecast our revenue, particularly in the fourth quarter, may be limited, and may result in material differences between any forecasted operating results and our actual results. This could cause volatility in our stock price. In addition, if we become more dependent on revenues associated with location-enabled devices, our business may be more sensitive to the general strength of the fourth quarter holiday shopping season and external retail shopping factors, each of which could significantly negatively impact our business. Our results of operations will suffer if we are not able to maintain our license fees. Our profitability depends significantly on the prices we are able to charge customers for our data and other services. The license fees we charge our customers are affected by a number of factors, including: · the quality of our data and other products and services and our customers’ perception of such quality; · brand awareness and loyalty; · the proliferation of navigation applications in lower-cost products and services and market acceptance of those products and services; · Our customers’ expectations of lower license fees as a result of economies of scale, customer-imposed efficiency improvements and decreases in prices of hardware and software incorporating our database; · competition; · advances in technology that reduce the cost of geographic data acquisition; · introduction of new services or products by us or our competitors; · pricing policies of our competitors; · price sensitivity of end-users of navigation products and services; and · general economic conditions. Any one or a combination of these factors could cause a decline in our license fees and thus, adversely affect our revenue and profitability. In addition, the success of our pricing policies is based, in part, on our assessment of the evolution of the market for products and services incorporating navigation applications, which is uncertain, and our ability to correlate the price we charge for various uses of our database. If either our assessment of the market evolution or our price correlations turn out to be incorrect, then our revenue and profitability may be adversely affected. The automotive market and the market for mobile devices are highly competitive and manufacturers in these markets are continually 18 looking for ways to reduce the costs of components included in their products in order to maintain or broaden consumer acceptance of those products. Because our map database is a component incorporated in automotive, mobile phone and handheld navigational systems, we face pressure, from time to time, from our customers to lower our database license fees. We have in the past, and may in the future, need to lower our license fees to preserve customer relationships or extend use of our database to a broader range of products. To the extent we lower our license fees in the future, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve related increases in the use of our database or other benefits to offset fully the effects of these adjustments. In addition, increased competition has affected our ability to maintain the level of our prices. If price adjustments resulting from increased competition are not offset by increases in sales of our database, our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. One of our primary competitors has filed a complaint against us alleging various anti-competitive and tortious acts which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. On April 22, 2005, Tele Atlas N.V. and Tele Atlas North America (“Tele Atlas”) filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The complaint alleges that the Company violated Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act, Section 3 of the Clayton Act, and Sections 16720, 16727 and 17200 of the California Business and Professions Code, and that the Company intentionally interfered with Tele Atlas’s contractual relations and prospective economic advantage with third parties, by allegedly excluding Tele Atlas from the market for digital map data for use in navigation system applications in the United States through exclusionary and predatory practices. On August 16, 2005, Tele Atlas filed an amended complaint based on these same causes of action. Specifically, in its amended complaint, Tele Atlas alleges that the Company controls a predominant share of variously defined markets for digital map data and has entered into exclusive contracts with digital map data customers for the purpose of acquiring or maintaining an illegal monopoly in these alleged markets. Tele Atlas also contends that these allegedly exclusive contracts have interfered with Tele Atlas’ current and prospective business relationships and amount to unfair competition under California state law. In addition, Tele Atlas alleges that the Company, through its license under U.S. Patent No. 5,161,886, control a predominant share of the alleged relevant technology market consisting of methods for displaying portions of a topographic map from an apparent perspective view outside and above a vehicle in the United States, and allegedly have entered into patent licenses and/or other arrangements in a manner that violates the aforesaid laws. On November 2, 2005, the Court dismissed some, but not all, of Tele Atlas’ claims for failure to state valid causes of action. On November 22, 2005, Tele Atlas filed a second amended complaint based on the same causes of actions and essentially the same allegations as in its first amended complaint and the Company filed an answer denying Tele Atlas’ claims. On February 19, 2007, Tele Atlas filed a Motion for Leave to Amend and Supplement Second Amended Complaint, seeking to file a third amended complaint based on the same causes of action and allegations as in its second amended complaint. Tele Atlas’s proposed third amended complaint adds allegations regarding an additional defined market for digital map data and regarding the Company’s control, through the Company’s U.S. Patent No. 6,735,515, of a technology market consisting of methods and systems designed to continuously provide driver assistance systems with updated data about paths along roads onto which a motor vehicle can travel from its current position, and use of such control to enter into a patent licenses and/or other agreements in a manner that violates federal and state antitrust laws. Tele Atlas seeks preliminary and permanent injunctive relief, unspecified monetary, exemplary and treble damages, and costs and attorneys’ fees of suit. The court granted Tele Atlas’s Motion for Leave and Tele Atlas’s Third Amended Complaint was filed under seal on May 11, 2007. Fact and expert discovery has closed and the period for filing summary judgment motions has ended. The Company filed summary judgment motions seeking decisions in the Company’s favor on all of Tele Atlas’ claims. This action is scheduled to begin a jury trial on July 14, 2008. The Company believes that Tele Atlas’ claims are without merit. The Company intends to take all necessary steps to vigorously defend itself against this action; however, the Company cannot predict its outcome or potential effect, if any, on the Company’s business, financial position or results of operations. A negative outcome could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if the Company prevails in this matter, the Company may incur significant costs in connection with its defense, experience a diversion of management time and attention, realize a negative impact on its reputation with its customers and face similar governmental and private actions based on these allegations. We have historically incurred operating losses and we may not achieve sustained profitability. Prior to the year ended December 31, 2002, we had been unprofitable on an annual basis since our inception. For the years ended December 31, 2000 and 2001, we had operating losses of $51.3 million and $28.9 million, respectively, and net losses of $109.6 million and $116.5 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $14.0 million. Although we have achieved an operating profit and a net profit for the year ended December 31, 2002 and each fiscal year thereafter, we cannot assure you that our revenue will continue to grow at its current rate or that we will be able to maintain profitability in the future. Our dependence on our vehicle navigation systems manufacturer customers for compilation could result in a material decrease in our revenue or otherwise adversely affect our business. For vehicle navigation systems, we rely on our vehicle navigation systems manufacturer customers to compile copies of our map database into their proprietary formats. This can be a time and labor intensive and complex process. In some cases, these customers also are responsible for distributing the compiled database to the automobile manufacturers. If these customers do not compile or distribute our map database in a timely manner and consistent with the requirements of the automobile manufacturers, our reputation and relationships with the automobile manufacturers could be adversely affected. In other cases, our navigation systems manufacturer customers compile our map database and then return a master copy to us. We then distribute copies of the database to the automobile 19 manufacturers in exchange for a distribution fee. If these customers do not fulfill their obligations to us to compile our map database, or to the extent we have not entered into agreements clearly specifying their obligations or fail to do so in the future, we may not be able to satisfy our obligations to automobile manufacturers, which could result in its contractual liability to these automobile manufacturers, and would likely decrease our revenue and adversely affect our business. Our vehicle navigation systems manufacturer customers also could decide not to provide compilation services to us, which would prevent us from providing distribution services to the automobile manufacturers with respect to these customers’ navigation systems, and would result in a material decrease in our revenue. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from our international operations and economic, political and other inherent risks of international operations may adversely affect our financial performance. We have approximately 180 satellite and administrative offices in 32 countries worldwide. We have substantial operations in Europe. Approximately 64%, 62% and 55% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively, were attributable to our European operations. We expect a significant portion of our revenue and expenses will be generated by our European operations in the future. Accordingly, our operating results are and will continue to be subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also collect data in various foreign jurisdictions and outsource some software development and data production functions in foreign jurisdictions. The key risks to us of operating in foreign countries include: · reduced or inadequate intellectual property protections and/or high rates of intellectual property piracy in some jurisdictions; · multiple, conflicting, vague and changing laws and regulations, including tax laws, employment laws, governmental approvals, permits and licenses; · restrictions on the movement of cash; · general political and economic instability; · restrictions on the import and export of technologies; · price controls or restrictions on exchange of foreign currencies; · trade barriers, including tariffs and other laws and practices that favor local companies; · maintenance of quality standards for outsourced work; and · difficulties and costs in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary operations, including cultural differences. We expect to continue to expand internationally into other countries and regions, including into emerging economies, where we believe that many of these risks are increased. In some cases, this expansion may require or result in investments in or acquisitions of local companies or other strategic relationships, any of which may involve these risks. Currency translation risk and currency transaction risk may adversely affect our results of operations. Material portions of our revenue and expenses have been generated by our EMEA operations, and we expect that our EMEA operations will account for a material portion of our revenue and expenses in the future. Substantially all of our international expenses and revenue are denominated in foreign currencies, principally the euro. As a result, our financial results could be affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in Europe and other foreign markets in which we have operations. Accordingly, fluctuations in the value of those currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar have caused and will continue to cause dollar-translated amounts to vary from one period to another. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency other than the local currency in which we receive revenue and pay expenses. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we generated approximately 56% of our total revenue, and incurred approximately 41% of our total costs in foreign currencies. Our EMEA operations reported revenue of $472.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2007, every one cent change in the exchange ratio of the euro against the dollar resulted in a $3.4 million change in our revenue and a $1.8 million change in our operating income. Our analysis does not consider the implications that such fluctuations could have on the overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment in Europe or the United States. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to manage effectively our currency translation and/or transaction risks, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to income taxes in many countries because of our international operations and we exercise judgment in order to determine our provision for income taxes. Because that determination is an estimate, we cannot be certain that our income tax provisions and accruals will be adequate. 20 We are subject to income taxes in many countries, jurisdictions and provinces. Our international operations require us to exercise judgment in determining our global provision for income taxes. Regularly, we make estimates where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. While we believe our estimates are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the final determination of any tax audit or tax-related litigation will not be materially different from that reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The assessment of additional taxes, interest and penalties as a result of audits, litigation or otherwise, could be materially adverse to our current and future results of operations and financial condition. We may not generate sufficient future taxable income to realize our deferred tax assets. We have a significant amount of tax loss carryforwards and interest expense carryforwards that will be available to reduce the taxes we would otherwise owe in the future. We have recognized the value of these future tax deductions in our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2007. The realization of our deferred tax assets is dependent upon our generation of future taxable income during the periods in which we are permitted, by law, to use those assets. We exercise judgment in evaluating our ability to realize the recorded value of these assets, and consider a variety of factors, including the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. Our evaluation of the realizability of deferred tax assets must consider both positive and negative evidence, and the weight given to the potential effects of positive and negative evidence is based on the extent to which the evidence can be verified objectively. While we believe that sufficient positive evidence exists to support our determination that the realization of our deferred tax assets is more likely than not, we cannot assure you that we will have profitable operations in the future that will allow us to fully realize those assets. Increased governmental regulation may place additional burdens on our business and adversely affect our ability to compete. Although we do not believe governmental regulation has had a material effect on our business and operations to date, it is possible that we will experience the effects of increased regulation in the future. In Europe and the United States, the combination of heightened security concerns and the increase in the breadth and accuracy of our map database could result in more restrictive laws and regulations, such as export control laws, applicable to our database. In addition, automobile safety initiatives may result in restrictions on devices that use our database. As we continue to expand our geographic coverage, policies favoring local companies and other regulatory initiatives may result in export control laws and other restrictions on our ability to access, collect and use map data or otherwise conduct business in various countries throughout the world. Our failure to comply with local policies and regulations could result in a number of adverse consequences, including loss of access to map data, restrictions or prohibitions on our use of map information, financial penalties, criminal sanctions or loss of licenses or other authority to do business in those jurisdictions. Any of these occurrences could adversely affect our ability to complete, improve, license or distribute our database, which could result in a competitive disadvantage for us and the possible loss of customers and revenue. We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. As a public reporting company, we must comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, including expanded disclosures and accelerated reporting requirements. We are now required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. The report must contain among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of its fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. This annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 includes our management’s report stating that our management has assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2007, and has concluded that as of December 31, 2007, our internal control over financial reporting was effective in providing reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. However, if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future in accordance with our annual assessment, we will be unable to assert that our internal control is effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective for any fiscal year, or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Likewise, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or if our auditors are not able to complete the procedures required to support their opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. If we cannot retain our existing management team or attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel, our business could be adversely affected. Our success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our current executive officers, including Judson C. Green, President and Chief Executive Officer, David B. Mullen, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and John K. MacLeod, Executive Vice President, NAVTEQ Connected Services and our other key employees, including management, sales, 21 support, technical and services personnel. Qualified employees are in high demand throughout technology-based industries, and our future success depends in significant part on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled employees and the ability of our executive officers and other members of senior management to work effectively as a team. If we fail to adapt our technology infrastructure, map database and data collection tools to changes in technology, we could lose our existing customers and be unable to attract new business. The market for products and services incorporating digital map information is evolving and is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in customer requirements, the introduction of new products and services and enhancements to existing products and services. Although our database currently can be used by our customers in a wide variety of applications, we will need to be able to maintain the compatibility of our map database with new products and services introduced as a result of technological changes. If we are unable to do so, demand for our database could decline and our revenue would be adversely affected. In addition, our customers expect us to be able to handle larger amounts of data comprised of new and often dynamic content on an increasingly real-time basis. If our technology infrastructure and data collection tools are inflexible or unable to effectively respond to such expectations, our customers may purchase map data and related content from other sources. If we fail to establish and maintain relationships with third party sources of data used in our map database or other suppliers, our business is likely to suffer. We depend upon third party sources for data to build, maintain and enhance our database. In certain cases, this data is readily available only from limited third party sources and/or at significant cost. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining our relationships with our current third party sources or that we will be able to continue to obtain data from them on acceptable terms or at all. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain data from alternative sources if our current sources become unavailable. In some cases, we may obtain data on less favorable terms in order to satisfy our customers’ requirements. In addition, we may be unable to obtain data from additional sources that would allow us to enhance our existing coverage and expand our geographic coverage. Our rights to use any data we obtain may be limited in scope and duration and subject to various other terms and restrictions that may reduce its usefulness to us. As we increase the number of sources we use that contain restrictions on scope or other restrictive terms and conditions, it will become increasingly difficult to manage these restrictions, and any breach by us of these supplier agreements could result in the loss of a data source, litigation and/or damage to our reputation. Our inability to obtain data from our current sources or additional or alternative sources, or to use the acquired data for its intended purposes, may impair or delay the further development, updating and distribution of our database. Any impairments or delays may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and cause us to lose revenue. Further, if we must pay more for the data than we have in the past or acquire data on unfavorable terms to satisfy customer requirements, our profitability may be adversely affected. We also rely on one of our suppliers to produce end-user copies of our data. If we are unable to obtain end-user copies from such supplier on terms acceptable to us or at all, it may be difficult to find a replacement, and could result in significant increase to our costs in cases where we distribute our map data directly to automotive manufacturers. If our customers do not accurately report the amount of license fees owed to us, we will not receive all of the revenue to which we are entitled. Except with respect to our automobile manufacturer customers for whom we make and distribute copies of our database, we rely on our customers to report the amount of license fees owed to us under our agreements with them. The majority of our agreements, including those with our key customers, give us the right to audit their records to verify this information. However, these audits can be expensive, time-consuming and possibly detrimental to our ongoing business relationships with our customers. As a result, to date we have only audited a small number of customers in any given year and have relied primarily on the accuracy of our customers’ reports. To the extent those reports are inaccurate, the revenue we collect from our customers could be materially less than the amount we should be receiving from them. Though we believe the revenue lost from underreporting has not been material historically, we cannot estimate the impact of underreporting in the future. Errors or defects in the database we deliver to customers may expose us to risks of product liability claims and adversely affect our reputation, which could result in customer loss, decreased revenue, unexpected expenses and loss of market share. The use of our data in route guidance products and other navigation products and applications involves an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. Claims could be made by our customers if errors or defects result in failure of their products or services, or by end-users of those products or services or others alleging loss or harm as a result of actual or perceived errors or defects in our map database. Our potential exposure may increase as products and services incorporating our map database begin to be used more widely in emergency response or other safety-related applications and as the information included in earlier versions of our map database becomes dated or obsolete. In addition, errors or defects in our database may require us to participate in product recalls, or cause us to voluntarily initiate a recall in order to maintain good customer relationships. Product liability claims present a risk of protracted litigation, substantial money damages, attorneys’ fees, costs and expenses, and diversion of management’s attention from the operation of our business. Although we have not had any product liability claims brought against us to date, we cannot assure you that claims will not be brought in the future. We attempt to mitigate the risks of 22 product liability claims through the use of disclaimers, limitations of liability and similar provisions in our license agreements; however, we cannot assure you that any of these provisions will prove to be effective barriers to claims. Recalls also may be costly and divert management’s attention from the operation of our business. In some circumstances, we are contractually obligated to indemnify our customers for liabilities, costs and expenses arising out of product liability claims. Providing indemnification or contesting indemnification claims from our customers may result in us incurring substantial costs and expenses. In some cases, purchase orders submitted by our customers purport to incorporate certain customer-favorable contractual terms and conditions which, if given effect, could increase our potential product liability and recall liability exposure. In addition, adverse publicity may reduce our customers’ willingness to incorporate our database and related applications into their products, which would adversely affect our revenue. Our inability to adequately protect our map database and other intellectual property could enable others to market databases with similar coverage and features that may reduce demand for our database and adversely affect our revenue. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright laws, trade secrets, patents, database laws and contractual rights to establish and protect our intellectual property rights in our database, software and related technology. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken or will take to protect our intellectual property from infringement, misappropriation or piracy will prove to be sufficient. Current or potential competitors may use our intellectual property without our authorization in the development of databases, software or technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours, and even if we discover evidence of infringement, misappropriation or intellectual property piracy, our recourse against them may be limited or could require us to pursue litigation, which could involve substantial attorneys’ fees, costs and expenses and diversion of management’s attention from the operation of our business. Our database is a compilation of public domain, licensed, otherwise-acquired and independently developed information obtained from various sources such as aerial photographs, commercially available maps and data, government records, other data sources and field observation. Current or potential competitors may be able to use publicly available sources of information and techniques similar to ours to independently create a database containing substantially the same information as our database. Any of these events likely would harm our competitive position. The laws of some countries in which we operate do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of other countries. For example, although our database and software are protected in part by copyright, database and trade secret rights, copyright protection does not extend to facts and legislative database protections that relate to compilations of facts currently exist only in certain countries of Europe and do not exist in the United States or Canada. In addition, as we continue to expand our geographic coverage outside of Europe and North America, there may be little or no intellectual property protection and increased rates of piracy. Further, we recently have begun to outsource some software development and data production functions and license certain data collection tools and know how to third parties located in foreign countries where we believe there is an increased risk of infringement, misappropriation and piracy and an increased possibility that we may not be able to enforce our contractual and intellectual property rights. Copies of our database that are distributed to end-users do not always include effective protection against unlawful copying. While we attempt to stop data piracy, our database is sometimes illegally copied and sold through auction sites and other channels. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time consuming, costly to defend and result in our loss of significant rights. Due to the uncertain and developing nature of this area of intellectual property law, we cannot assure you that claims of infringement or similar claims will not be asserted against us. Various public authorities and private entities claim copyright or other ownership of or protection with respect to certain data and map information that we use in our database. Although our general policy is to seek to obtain licenses or other rights where necessary or appropriate, we cannot assure you that we have obtained or will be successful in obtaining all of these licenses or rights. In the event that claims are asserted against us, we may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may or may not be able to obtain those licenses at a reasonable cost or at all. Also, if we are found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of a third party, we may be subject to payment of substantial royalties or damages, or enjoined or otherwise prevented from marketing part or all of our database, software or related technologies and/or products which would incorporate our database, software or related technologies, any of which could cause us to lose revenue, impair our customer relationships and damage our reputation. We also claim rights in our trademarks and service marks. Certain of our marks are registered in Europe, the United States, and elsewhere and we have filed applications to register certain other marks in these jurisdictions. Marks of others that are the same or similar to certain of our marks currently exist or may exist in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue using certain marks or that certain of our marks do not infringe the marks of others. We have licensed others to use certain of our marks in connection with our database and expect to continue licensing certain of our marks in the future. Licensees of our marks may take actions that might materially and adversely affect the value of our marks or reputation. Our intellectual property indemnification practices and potential obligations may adversely affect our business. Our license agreements with our customers generally contain indemnification provisions which, in certain circumstances may require us to indemnify our customers for liabilities, costs and expenses arising out of violations of intellectual property rights. These 23 indemnification provisions and other actions by us may result in indemnification claims or claims of intellectual property right infringement. In some instances, the potential amount of the indemnities may be greater than the revenue we receive from the customer. Any indemnification claims or related disputes or litigation, whether ultimately we are or are not required to provide indemnification, could be time-consuming and costly, damage our reputation, prevent us from offering some services or products, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, which may not be on terms favorable to us. Our technology systems may suffer failures and business interruptions that could increase our operating costs and cause delays in our operations. Our operations face the risk of systems failures. Although we believe we have sufficient disaster recovery plans and redundant systems in place, our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, power loss, computer hardware and software failure, telecommunications failure, computer hacking break-ins and similar events. The occurrence of a natural disaster or unanticipated problems with our technology systems at our production facility in Fargo, North Dakota, or at our offices in Chicago, Illinois and Veldhoven, the Netherlands could cause interruptions or delays in the ongoing development and enhancement of our map database and related software, and inhibit our ability to timely deliver our database to our customers, which in turn could cause us to lose customers or revenue. Our technology systems may also be subject to capacity constraints which would cause increased operating costs in order to overcome these constraints. Further, the operational failure of TIMS, the system Traffic.com uses to collect, analyze and distribute traffic information, could prevent us from delivering traffic data to our customers, which could result in a loss of customers and would adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase advertising revenue related to our traffic data and grow Traffic.com’s business. We are required to achieve and maintain various quality assurance standards and if we are unable to do so, our key customers may not do business with us. Many of our customers, particularly those in the automotive industry, require their suppliers to maintain certain quality assurance standards and certifications, including those pursuant to the ISO series of international standards. Although we have achieved many of these certifications, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to meet these standards in the future or that our customers will not require us to obtain and maintain certifications under different or more stringent standards in the future, which we may or may not be able to accomplish. If we are unable to do so, those customers may refuse to do business with us, which could materially reduce our revenue and adversely affect our reputation. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations and cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements to conform with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting policies. A change in those accounting principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced or adopted. Our investment in marketable securities are subject to risks that may result in losses. Our investment in marketable securities are subject to risks that may result in losses. We invest our excess cash balances in several types of securities, including notes and bonds issued by governmental agencies or corporations, and money market funds. Securities issued by governmental agencies include those issued directly by the U.S. government, those issued by state, local or other governmental entities, and those guaranteed by entities affiliated with governmental entities. These investments are investment grade and meet our internal investment policy. At December 31, 2007, our short-term investments included auction rate securities issued by state, local and other governmental entities, or guaranteed by entities affiliated with governmental entities. They have long-term maturities, but the interest rates are reset periodically through an auction process which provides opportunities for holders of the securities to liquidate their positions. Our short-term investments are subject to fluctuations in market value and yield based upon changes in market conditions, including interest rate, liquidity, general economic conditions and conditions specific to the issuer. Recently, insufficient market liquidity has impacted the general debt market and our ability to liquidate certain of our auction rate securities as originally scheduled. None of the securities in which we are invested have experienced defaults. If our ability to liquidate these securities is limited, we could experience losses in our investment portfolio and our ability to access additional cash could be more restricted. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid or at all. The price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, including the market’s perception of our prospects and those of geographic data providers in general, differences between its actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts, changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections, changes in general economic or market conditions and broad market fluctuations. Broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Stock prices for technology-related companies have experienced significant price and volume volatility. Companies that experience volatility in the market price of their securities often are subject to securities class action litigation. This type of litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources away from our business. In addition, we are currently experiencing a major shift in our business from in-vehicle navigation devices to location-enabled mobile devices which is causing our business to be more seasonal and difficult to predict, each of which could result in volatility in our stock price. 24 Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and if we do not meet quarterly financial expectations, our stock price may experience increased volatility. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict due to a variety of factors, including the timing of purchases by our customers, the introduction of new products or services by them incorporating our map database and changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors. These or other factors, many of which are beyond our control, may result in this unpredictability continuing in the future. This could cause our operating results in some quarters to vary from market expectations and lead to volatility in our stock price. We currently do not provide guidance to the marketplace with respect to our quarterly financial results. As such, analysts’ estimates may not reflect our own expectations as to our future financial performance. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us. Sales of our equity securities to provide this capital may dilute your ownership in us. We may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to: · take advantage of expansion opportunities; · acquire complementary businesses or technologies; · develop new services and products; or · respond to competitive pressures. Any additional capital raised through the sale of our equity securities may dilute your percentage ownership interest in us. Furthermore, any additional financing we may need may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. The unavailability of needed financing could adversely affect our ability to execute our growth strategy. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. Except for the special cash dividend that was paid on June 18, 2004 to our common stockholders of record as of April 19, 2004, we have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. Payment of future cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs and plans for expansion, and any limitations on dividend payments included in any financing or other agreements that we may be party to at the time. Our existing credit facility currently restricts our ability to pay dividends. Consequently, investors cannot rely on dividend income and your opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in our common stock will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation in the price of our stock. There is no guarantee that the price of our common stock will appreciate in the future or that the price at which you purchased your shares will be maintained. Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay and discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and applicable provisions of Delaware corporate law may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us or changing our board of directors and management. These provisions include: · the ability by our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences; · our stockholders may only take action at a meeting of our stockholders and not by written consent; and · our stockholders must comply with advance notice procedures in order to nominate candidates for election to our board of directors or to place stockholders’ proposals on the agenda for consideration at meetings of the stockholders. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors or management could deter potential acquirors or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the then current market price for their shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 