ITEM1A. RISK FACTORS The risks presented below may not be all of the risks we may face. These are the factors that we believe could cause actual results to be different from expected and historical results. Other sections of this report include additional factors that could have an effect on our business and financial performance. The industry in which we compete is very competitive and changes rapidly. Sometimes new risks emerge and management may not be able to predict all of them or how they may cause actual results to be different from those contained in any forward-looking statements. One should not rely upon forward-looking statements as a prediction of future results. We may need additional capital to reach and maintain a sustainable level of positive cash flow. We have borrowed $10.1 million from two investors and have not achieved positive cash flow. Although these investors historically have demonstrated a willingness to grant access to additional funding and renegotiate terms of previous credit arrangements, there is no assurance they will continue to do so in the future. If we are unable to collect adequate cash from customer collections and the Investors were to become unwilling to provide access to additional funds, we would need to find immediate additional sources of capital. There can be no assurance that such capital would be available, or, if available, that the terms of such financing would not be dilutive to stockholders. If we are unable to secure additional capital as circumstances require, we may not be able to continue our operations. We have a history of losses and may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred annual operating losses since inception, and may continue to incur operating losses because new products will require substantial development, clinical, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing, and other expenditures. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, we had net losses of $(1,956,639) and $(1,983,630), respectively. As of December 31, 2011, our accumulated deficit was $(54,151,491). We may not be able to successfully commercialize our current or future products, achieve significant revenues from sales, or achieve or sustain profitability. Successful completion of our commercialization program and our transition to profitable operations is dependent upon achieving a level of revenues adequate to support our cost structure. The market for our Common Stock is limited and our stock price is volatile. Our common stock, traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, has historically traded at low average daily volumes, resulting in a limited market for the purchase and sale of our common stock. 9 The market prices of many publicly traded companies, including emerging companies in the life sciences industry, have been, and can be expected to be, highly volatile. The future market price of our common stock could be significantly impacted by: ● Future sales of our common stock ● Announcements of technological innovations for new commercial products by our present or potential competitors ● Developments concerning proprietary rights ● Adverse results in our field or with clinical tests of our products in customer applications ● Adverse litigation ● Unfavorable legislation or regulatory decisions ● Public concerns regarding our products ● Variations in quarterly operating results ● General trends in the health care industry ● Other factors outside of our control There is uncertainty surrounding our ability to successfully commercialize our biopreservation media products and contract research and development and manufacturing services. Our growth depends, in part, on our continued ability to successfully develop, commercialize and market our HypoThermosol, CryoStor, and BloodStor biopreservation media products and contract research and development and manufacturing services. Even in markets that do not require us to undergo clinical trials and obtain regulatory approvals, our products will not be used unless they present an attractive alternative to competitive products and the benefits and cost savings achieved through their use outweigh the cost of our products. The success of our HypoThermosol, CryoStor, and BloodStor biopreservation media products is dependant, in part, on the commercial success of new regenerative medicine technologies. Our HypoThermosol, CryoStor, and BloodStor biopreservation media products are marketed to biotechnology companies and research institutions engaged in research and development of cell, gene and tissue engineering therapies. The end-products or therapies developed by these biotechnology companies and research institutions are subject to substantial regulatory oversight by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, and many of these therapies are years away from commercialization. Thus demand, if any, for HypoThermosol, CryoStor, and BloodStor is expected to be limited for several years. We face significant competition. The life sciences industry is highly competitive. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than us and have greater financial, technical, research, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources than us. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not succeed in developing or marketing technologies and products that are more effective or commercially attractive than any that are being developed or marketed by us, or that such competitors will not succeed in obtaining regulatory approval, or introducing or commercializing any such products, prior to us. Such developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, even if we are able to compete successfully, there can be no assurance that we could do so in a profitable manner. 10 Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. In order to execute our business plan, we must attract, retain and motivate highly qualified managerial, scientific, manufacturing, and sales personnel. If we fail to attract and retain skilled scientific and sales personnel, our research and development and sales efforts will be hindered. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of key scientific and technical personnel. If we do not attract and retain qualified personnel we will not be able to achieve our growth objectives. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors may take advantage of our ideas and compete directly against us. Our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to secure and protect intellectual proprietary rights and enforce patent and trademark protections relating to our technology. While we believe that the protection of patents and trademarks is important to our business, we also rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret, nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, know-how and continuing technological innovation to maintain our competitive position. From time to time, litigation may be advisable to protect our intellectual property position. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Any litigation in this regard could be costly, and it is possible that we will not have sufficient resources to fully pursue litigation or to protect our intellectual property rights. This could result in the rejection or invalidation of our existing and future patents. Any adverse outcome in litigation relating to the validity of our patents, or any failure to pursue litigation or otherwise to protect our patent position, could materially harm our business and financial condition. In addition, confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, customers, and key vendors may not prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technology. It is possible that these agreements will be breached or that they will not be enforceable in every instance, and that we will not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Enforcement of these agreements may be costly and time consuming. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Because the life sciences industry is litigious, we may be sued for allegedly violating the intellectual property rights of others. In the past, the life sciences industry has been characterized by a substantial amount of litigation and related administrative proceedings regarding patents and intellectual property rights. In addition, many life science companies have used litigation against emerging growth companies as a means of gaining a competitive advantage. Should third parties file patent applications or be issued patents claiming technology claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the relative priorities of our inventions and the third parties’ inventions. We could also be required to participate in interference proceedings involving our issued patents and pending applications of another entity. An adverse outcome in an interference proceeding could require that we cease using the technology or license rights from prevailing third parties. Third parties may claim that we are using their patented inventions and may go to court to stop us from engaging in our normal operations and activities. These lawsuits are expensive to defend and conduct and would also consume and divert the time and attention of our management. A court may decide that we are infringing on a third party’s patents and may order us to cease the infringing activity. The court could also order us to pay damages for the infringement. These damages could be substantial and could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. If we are unable to obtain any necessary license following an adverse determination in litigation or in interference or other administrative proceedings, we would have to redesign our products to avoid infringing a third party’s patent and temporarily or permanently discontinue manufacturing and selling some of our products. If this were to occur, it would negatively impact future sales. If we fail to obtain or maintain future regulatory clearances or approvals for our products, or if approvals are delayed or withdrawn, we will be unable to commercially distribute and market our products or any product modifications. As an ancillary or excipient reagent used in the production, transportation, and infusion of our customers’ regulated clinical products, HypoThermosol, CryoStor, and BloodStor are not subject to specific FDA or other non-US pre-market approval for drugs, devices, or biologics. In particular, we are not required to sponsor formal prospective, controlled clinical-trials in order to establish safety and efficacy. However, to support our current and prospective clinical customers, we comply with Current Good Manufacturing Practice (“cGMP”). 11 There can be no assurance that we will not be required to obtain approval from the FDA, or foreign regulatory authorities, as applicable, prior to marketing any of our products in the future. During 2009, we submitted updated Type II Master Files to the FDA for CryoStor and HypoThermosol. These enhanced regulatory submissions provide the FDA with information regarding the quality of components used in the formulation of our products, the manufacturing process, our quality system, and stability testing that we have performed. Customers engaged in clinical applications who wish to notify the FDA of their intention to use our products in their product development and manufacturing process can now request a cross-reference to our Master Files. We are dependent on outside suppliers for all of our manufacturing supplies. We rely on outside suppliers for all of our manufacturing supplies, parts and components. Although we believe we could develop alternative sources of supply for most of these components within a reasonable period of time, there can be no assurance that, in the future, our current or alternative sources will be able to meet all of our demands on a timely basis. Unavailability of necessary components could require us to re-engineer our products to accommodate available substitutions which would increase costs to us and/or have a material adverse effect on manufacturing schedules, products performance and market acceptance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 