ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks presented below may not be all of the risks the Company may face. These are the factors that we believe could cause actual results to be different from expected and historical results. Other sections of this report include additional factors that could have an effect on our business and financial performance. The industry in which the Company competes is very competitive and changes rapidly. Sometimes new risks emerge and management may not be able to predict all of them or how they may cause actual results to be different from those contained in any forward-looking statements. One should not rely upon forward-looking statements as a prediction of future results. The Company has a history of losses and may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred annual operating losses since inception, and may continue to incur operating losses because new products will require substantial development, clinical, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing, and other expenditures. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, we had net losses of $(2,775,117) and $(2,851,774), respectively. As of December 31, 2008, our accumulated deficit was $(47,442,870). We may not be able to successfully commercialize our current or future products, achieve significant revenues from sales, or achieve or sustain profitability. Successful completion of our commercialization program and our transition to attaining profitable operations is dependent upon achieving a level of revenues adequate to support our cost structure. The market for the Company’s Common Stock is limited and its stock price is volatile. Our common stock, traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, has historically traded at low average daily volumes, resulting in a limited market for the purchase and sale of our common stock. The market prices of many publicly traded companies, including emerging companies in the health care industry, have been, and can be expected to be, highly volatile. The future market price of our common stock could be significantly impacted by: · Future sales of our common stock · Announcements of technological innovations for new commercial products by our present or potential competitors · Developments concerning proprietary rights · Adverse results in our field or with clinical tests of our products in customer applications · Adverse litigation · Unfavorable legislation or regulatory decisions · Public concerns regarding our products · Variations in quarterly operating results · General trends in the health care industry · Other factors outside of our control There is uncertainty surrounding the Company’s ability to successfully commercialize its biopreservative solutions. Our growth depends, in part, on our continued ability to successfully develop, commercialize and market our HypoThermosol and CryoStor biopreservative solutions. Even in markets that do not require us to undergo clinical trials and obtain regulatory approvals, our line of HypoThermosol and CryoStor biopreservative solutions will not be used unless they present an attractive alternative to competitive products and the benefits and cost savings achieved through their use outweigh the cost of the solutions. The success of the Company’s HypoThermosol and CryoStor biopreservative solutions is dependant, in part, on the commercial success of new cell and gene therapy technology. We are developing biopreservative media for, and marketing our HypoThermosol and CryoStor biopreservative solutions to, biotechnology companies and research institutions engaged in research and development of cell, gene and tissue engineering therapy. Although we, as a component supplier, may not be subject to the same formal 9 prospective, controlled clinical-trials to establish safety and efficacy, and to substantial regulatory oversight by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, with respect to the commercialized end products or therapies developed by these biotechnology companies and research institutions, the development of these therapies are years away from commercialization, and demand, if any, for the HypoThermosol and CryoStor biopreservative solutions in these markets, is expected to be limited for several years. The Company faces significant competition. The life sciences industry is highly competitive. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and have greater financial, technical, research, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources than we do. Additionally, we believe there will be intense price competition with respect to our products. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not succeed in developing or marketing technologies and products that are more effective or commercially attractive than any that are being developed or marketed by us, or that such competitors will not succeed in obtaining regulatory approval, or introducing or commercializing any such products, prior to us. Such developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, even if we are not able to compete successfully, there can be no assurance that we could do so in a profitable manner. The Company’s success will depend on its ability to attract and retain key personnel. In order to execute our business plan, we must attract, retain and motivate highly qualified managerial, technical and sales personnel. If we fail to attract and retain skilled scientific and sales personnel, our research and development and sales efforts will be hindered. Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued services of key scientific and technical personnel. If we do not attract and retain qualified personnel we will not be able to achieve our growth objectives. If the Company fails to protect its intellectual property rights, the Company’s competitors may take advantage of its ideas and compete directly against it. Our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to secure and protect intellectual proprietary rights and enforce patent and trademark protections relating to our technology. While we believe that the protection of patents and trademarks is important to our business, we also rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret, nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, know-how and continuing technological innovation to maintain its competitive position. From time to time, litigation may be advisable to protect our intellectual property position. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Any litigation in this regard could be costly, and it is possible that we will not have sufficient resources to fully pursue litigation or to protect our intellectual property rights. This could result in the rejection or invalidation o f our existing and future patents. Any adverse outcome in litigation relating to the validity of our patents, or any failure to pursue litigation or otherwise to protect our patent position, could materially harm our business and financial condition. In addition, confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, customers, and key vendors may not prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technology. It is possible that these agreements will be breached or that they will not be enforceable in every instance, and that we will not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Enforcement of these agreements may be costly and time consuming. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Because the life sciences industry is litigious, the Company may be sued for allegedly violating the intellectual property rights of others. In the past, the life sciences industry has been characterized by a substantial amount of litigation and related administrative proceedings regarding patents and intellectual property rights. In addition, many life science companies have used litigation against emerging growth companies as a means of gaining a competitive advantage. Should third parties file patent applications or be issued patents claiming technology claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the relative priorities of our inventions and the third parties’ inventions. We could also be required to participate in interference proceedings involving our issued patents and pending applications of another entity. An adverse outcome in an interference proceeding could require that we cease using the technology or to license rights from prevailing third parties. Thir d parties may claim that we are using their patented inventions and may go to court to stop us from engaging in our normal operations and activities. These lawsuits are expensive to defend and 10 conduct and would also consume and divert the time and attention of our management. A court may decide that we are infringing on a third party’s patents and may order us to cease the infringing activity. The court could also order us to pay damages for the infringement. These damages could be substantial and could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. If we are unable to obtain any necessary license following an adverse determination in litigation or in interference or other administrative proceedings, we would have to redesign our products to avoid infringing a third party’s patent and temporarily or permanently discontinue manufacturing and selling some of our products. If this were to occur, it would negatively impact future sales. If the Company fails to obtain or maintain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for products, or if approvals are delayed or withdrawn, the Company will be unable to commercially distribute and market its products or any product modifications. In the United States, the FDA has broad authority under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act to regulate the distribution, manufacture and sale of medical devices. Foreign sales of drugs and medical devices are subject to foreign governmental regulation and restrictions, which vary from country to country. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory clearances and approvals is lengthy and expensive. We may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary approvals for clinical testing or for the manufacturing or marketing of our products. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory approvals can, among other things, result in fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, operating restrictions, and criminal prosecution. In addition, governmental regulations may be established which could prevent, delay, modify or rescind regulatory approval of our products. Any of these actions by the FDA, or change in FD A regulations, may adversely impact our business and financial condition. As an excipient component of other developed technologies, HypoThermosol and CryoStor are not subject to specific FDA pre-market approval for drugs, devices, or biologics. In particular, we are not required to sponsor formal prospective, controlled clinical-trials in order to establish safety and efficacy. However, it is highly likely that all potential customers would require that we comply with Current Good Manufacturing Procedures (“cGMP”) as mandated by FDA. In 2008, we completed small animal safety studies on our products in collaboration with the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle. Regulatory approvals, if granted, may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which our products may be marketed. In addition, to obtain such approvals, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may impose numerous other requirements on us. FDA enforcement policy prohibits the marketing of approved medical devices for una pproved uses. Furthermore, product approvals can be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory standards or unforeseen problems following initial marketing. We may not be able to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals for our products on a timely basis, or at all, and delays in receipt of or failure to receive such approvals, the loss of previously obtained approvals, or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements would have a significant negative effect on our financial condition. The Company is dependent on outside suppliers for all of its manufacturing supplies. We rely on outside suppliers for all of our manufacturing supplies, parts and components. Although we believe we could develop alternative sources of supply for most of these components within a reasonable period of time, there can be no assurance that, in the future, our current or alternative sources will be able to meet all of our demands on a timely basis. Unavailability of necessary components could require us to re-engineer our products to accommodate available substitutions which would increase costs to us and/or have a material adverse effect on manufacturing schedules, products performance and market acceptance. The Company is transitioning to in-house manufacturing We are completing the construction and validation of a new multi-class clean room manufacturing, research & development, and quality assurance and control suite. Production capacity will support our growth plan and also provide the ability to custom fill and finish our biopreservation media products to meet customer requests. Our facility design, raw material qualification, and unidirectional process flow will be ISO14644 and 14971 compliant and were vetted by industry leading consultants to support cGMP compliance as called out in title 21 Code of Federal Regulations (“CFR”) part 820. Our production process will also be also compliant with 21 CFR parts 210 and 211 (for aseptic production). However, if we encounter contractor delays or a validation failure, we may experience a delay in our ability to meet customer demand for our products. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 11 