ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Brooke Corporation A significant part of our business strategy involves adding new franchise locations, originating new loans, and providing collateral preservation services, and our failure to grow may adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our expansion strategy consists principally of adding new franchise locations, originating new loans and providing collateral preservation services for such loans. Our continued growth is dependent upon a number of factors, including the availability of adequate financing and suitable franchise locations on acceptable terms, experienced management employees, the ability to obtain required government permits and licenses and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition, we compete for acquisition and expansion opportunities with entities that have substantially greater resources than us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to provide effective collateral preservation services or grow our business successfully through adding new franchise locations or by growing the operations of existing franchisees. Our failure to grow could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents Borrowers’ financial performance may adversely affect their ability to repay amounts due to us. We have credit exposure with respect to loans made to franchisees and other borrowers and with respect to the franchisees’ monthly statement balances. We lend money to franchisees, other insurance agencies and funeral home owners to start up or acquire businesses and we may assist these borrowers by loaning working capital. In addition, we assist franchisees by financing long-term producer development, cyclical fluctuations of revenues, receivables and payables. We make loans to help franchisees with monthly fluctuations of revenues and record these advances on franchisees’ monthly statements. We also grant temporary extensions of due dates for franchisee statement balances owed by franchisees to us. To fund long-term producer development of franchisees, including hiring and training costs, we also extend credit to franchisees, which we refer to as “non-statement balances.” Franchisees and other borrowers depend on commission income to pay amounts due to us in respect of their loans, in respect of their statement balances, and in respect of their non-statement balances used to finance long-term producer development. If franchisees and other borrowers are not successful, franchisees may be unable to pay statement or non-statement balances to us and our borrowers may be unable to repay their loans, any of which would have a detrimental effect on us. Our credit loss reserves are determined primarily by our watch statement balances. Other factors we consider in determining credit loss reserves are statement loss experience, management’s evaluation of the potential for future losses and management’s evaluation of the potential for future recoveries. We may not be able to accurately predict credit losses and, as a result, the amount we have budgeted for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover future losses, in which case, our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. In addition, our borrower’s adverse financial performance may result in a downgrade or withdrawal of ratings given to securities previously issued in our securitizations, or keep us from getting favorable ratings on future securitized pools of our loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans made to them by Aleritas may be adversely affected by an increase in market interest rates. Loans made to franchisees and other borrowers by Aleritas typically bear interest at a variable or floating interest rate. To the extent that market interest rates increase, borrowers may be unable to make debt service payments. As a result, an increase in market interest rates will increase the risk of default on the loans made by us. The risk associated with rising interest rates will increase with respect to our insurance agency borrowers if coupled with a flattening or decreasing of property and casualty insurance premiums, and thus commissions. As well, an increase in interest rates could cause certain insurance companies to reduce their premium rates in an effort to sell more insurance and invest the resulting premiums in fixed-income securities to get the benefit of these higher rates. In such event, the amount of commissions our franchisees and other insurance agency borrowers earn could be adversely affected, further increasing the risk of default on loans made by us to these borrowers. Our financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to fund our loans through sales to third parties. In an effort to broaden our funding sources and to provide an additional source of liquidity, we have sold participation interests in our loans and have accessed, and intend to attempt to continue to access, the asset-backed securitization and warehouse funding markets. Under a typical asset-backed securitization, we sell a “pool” of secured loans to a special-purpose entity, generally a limited liability company. The special-purpose entity, in turn, typically issues securities that are collateralized by the pool and the holders of the securities are entitled to participate in certain pool cash flows. Several factors will affect our ability to sell participation interests in our loans, to fund our financing through warehouse facilities, and to complete securitizations, including: • conditions in the securities markets, generally; • conditions in the asset-backed securities markets; • the credit quality and performance of our financial instruments and loans; 27 Table of Contents • our ability to adequately service our financial instruments and loans; • our ability to monitor our borrowers and to implement collateral preservation; and • the absence of any downgrading or withdrawal of ratings given to securities previously issued in our securitizations. We make certain assumptions regarding the profitability of our securitizations, participations, warehouse lines and other funding vehicles which may not prove to be accurate. In a securitization, participation or warehouse sale transaction, we may recognize a gain on sale resulting from related retained interest and/or servicing rights when we sell the assets. The value assigned to the retained interest and/or servicing asset depends upon certain assumptions we make about future performance of the sold loans, including the level of credit losses and the rate of prepayments. If actual credit losses or prepayment rates differ from the original assumptions, the value of the retained interest and/or servicing asset may decrease materially. The value of the retained interest and/or servicing asset may also decrease materially as a result of changes in market interest rates. In addition, changes in the volume of loans sold due to our inability to access the asset-backed securitization markets, or other funding sources, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Decreases in the value of the retained interests and/or servicing asset in securitizations or warehouses that we have completed or loan participations we have sold due to market interest rate fluctuations or higher than expected credit losses on prepayments also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value of the collateral securing our loans to borrowers may be adversely affected by our borrowers’ actions. We make loans to franchisees, other insurance agency borrowers, funeral home owners, and other borrowers primarily for the purpose of allowing them to acquire businesses. These loans are secured by, among other things, the business value, such as insurance agency assets. These assets in most cases are intangible, and the value of these assets may rapidly deteriorate if our borrowers do not adequately serve their customers or if the products and services they offer are not competitively priced. Reduction in the value of such assets could result in these loans being inadequately secured, which could adversely affect us in the event of a default on these loans. Carrier override and contingent or profit sharing commissions are difficult to predict, and any decrease in our receipt of such payments will adversely affect us. We derive a portion of our revenues from carrier override and contingent or profit sharing commissions based upon the terms of the contractual relationships between our insurance companies and us. Carrier override commissions are commissions paid by insurance companies in excess of the standard commission rates on specific classes of business. These amounts may be, but are not always, contingent on achieving a specific premium volume or profitability of the business. Contingent or profit sharing commissions are commissions paid by insurance companies based on the estimated profit that the companies make on the overall volume of business that we place with such companies. We generally receive these contingent commissions in the first and second quarters of each year. We do not account for carrier overrides separately. However, contingent or profit sharing commissions accounted for approximately three percent of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. Due to the nature of these commissions, it is difficult for us to predict their payment. Increases in loss ratios experienced by insurance companies will result in a decreased profit to them and may result in decreases in payments of contingent or profit sharing commissions to us. Furthermore, we have no control over insurance companies’ ability to estimate loss reserves, which affects our profit sharing calculation. In addition, tightening of underwriting criteria by certain insurance companies, due in part to high loss ratios, may result in a lower volume of business that we are able to place with them. Our company override and contingent or profit 28 Table of Contents sharing commissions affect our revenues, and decreases in their payment to us may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Potential litigation and regulatory proceedings regarding commissions, fees, contingency payments, profit sharing and other compensation paid to brokers or agents could materially adversely affect our financial condition. The insurance industry has in recent years come under a significant level of scrutiny by various regulatory bodies, including state Attorneys General and the departments of insurance for various states, with respect to contingent compensation and other volume or profit based compensation arrangements. Attorneys General have issued subpoenas to various insurance brokerages and insurance companies. Certain of these investigations have led to complaints being filed against brokerages and insurance companies and some brokerages and insurance companies have stated that they will discontinue accepting or making, respectively, volume based and profit based payments. In addition to government investigations, class action lawsuits relating to these business practices have been filed against various members of the insurance industry. Negative publicity associated with these investigations, lawsuits and resulting settlements have precipitated increased volatility in the prices of securities issued by companies throughout the insurance industry. We received inquiries from departments of insurance which were related to such compensation arrangements or were related to unethical or unlawful sales practices. These inquiries were not related to specific or general allegations of wrongdoing on our behalf. Rather, these inquiries were sent to numerous agents and brokers based upon their status as a licensed agent or broker, the volume of business they produce or other factors unrelated to allegations of wrongdoing. We cannot predict whether we will receive further inquiries or will receive subpoenas, or will become subject to investigations, regulatory actions, proceedings or lawsuits. The outcome of any such subpoena, investigation, regulatory action, proceeding or lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. The insurance industry has also recently come under a significant level of scrutiny by consumer advocacy groups, and certain media reports have advocated governmental action with respect to contingent and other volume or profit based compensation arrangements. The consumer groups and media reports typically characterize these payments as creating an unacceptable conflict of interest and adding an unnecessary or even unfair consumer cost. If negative characterizations of such compensation arrangements become accepted by consumers, this could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our franchisees’ products and services and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Negative perception of such compensation arrangements or other activities could also result in us being subject to more restrictive laws and regulations as well as increased litigation, which may increase further our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by impeding our ability to market our products and services, requiring us to change our marketing practices, products or services and increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate. Our business is dependent on the cyclical pricing of property and casualty insurance, which may adversely affect our franchisees’ performance and, thus, our financial performance. Our franchisees and other borrowers are primarily engaged in insurance agency and brokerage activities and derive revenues from commissions paid by insurance companies, which commissions are based in large part on the amount of premiums paid by their customers to such insurance companies. In turn, we earn fees from our franchisees based upon the amount of such commissions payable by insurance companies, which fees make up a substantial portion of our revenues. Neither we nor our franchisees or other insurance agency borrowers determine insurance premiums. Premium rates are determined by insurers based on a fluctuating market. Historically, property and casualty insurance premiums have been cyclical in nature, characterized by periods of severe price competition and excess underwriting capacity, or soft markets, which generally have an adverse effect upon the amount of commissions earned by our franchisees or other insurance agency borrowers, followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity, or hard markets. The current insurance market generally may be characterized as “soft,” with a flattening or decreasing of premiums in most lines of insurance. As insurance carriers continue to outsource the production of premium 29 Table of Contents revenue to independent brokers or agents, such as our franchisees, those insurance carriers may seek to reduce further their expenses by reducing the commission rates payable to such brokers or agents. The reduction of these commission rates, along with general volatility and/or declines in premiums, may significantly undermine the profitability of our franchisees and other insurance agency borrowers, and our profitability. A reduction in commission rates may significantly undermine our borrowers’ ability to repay loans to us. Because we do not determine the timing and extent of premium pricing changes, we cannot accurately forecast our commission revenues, including whether they will significantly decline. As a result, our budgets for future acquisitions, capital expenditures, credit loss reserves, dividend payments, loan repayments and similar items may have to be adjusted to account for unexpected changes in revenues. We may not be able to successfully convert new franchises. Our ability to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, convert acquired businesses into our franchisees, and expand into new markets will require us to continue to implement and improve our operations, financial and management information systems. Our new franchises may not achieve levels of revenue, profitability, or productivity comparable to our existing franchises, or otherwise perform as expected. In addition, when we make an acquisition and effect a conversion, we are subject to a number of special risks, such as entry into unfamiliar markets and unanticipated problems or legal liabilities, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to repurchase loans sold with recourse or make payments on guarantees. In some instances, Aleritas has sold loans to investors with full or partial recourse, which may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations in the event Aleritas is required to repurchase loans of poor quality. In addition, in connection with our activities of matching business purchasers and sellers, we have sometimes guaranteed payments from purchasers to sellers, which may adversely affect us in the event such a purchaser defaults on its obligations to such a seller. We will be adversely affected if we do not have alternative sources of funds to repay our obligations as they mature. Loans made by Aleritas are usually amortized for a period of between twelve years and fifteen years. We have funded a portion of our loan portfolio with funding facilities which will require all or partial repayment by us prior to the time that loans made by us are scheduled to be repaid, and we will be adversely affected if we do not have alternative sources of funds to repay these obligations as they mature. We are dependent on key personnel. We are dependent upon the continued services of senior management, particularly the services of Robert D. Orr, Leland G. Orr, Michael S. Hess, Michael S. Lowry, Kyle L. Garst and Anita F. Larson. We have entered into an employment agreement with each of them. The loss of the services of any of these key personnel, by termination, death or disability, or our inability to identify, hire and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on us. We currently do not maintain key employee insurance with respect to any of our officers or employees. With our method of funding our loans, our leverage may increase. If we fund more of our loans with our cash or warehouse facilities that do not qualify as true sales pursuant to the criteria established by SFAS 140, “Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities,” our current liabilities will increase. Our network of participating lenders and other business partners may become uncomfortable with such an increase in current liabilities. As a result, we may not be able to sell loans we originate on terms acceptable to us or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and prospects for growth. 30 Table of Contents Our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be materially adversely affected by errors and omissions. Our franchisees are subject to claims and litigation in the ordinary course of business resulting from alleged errors and omissions. Because we are agent of record on policies written through our franchisees, claims against our franchisees may also allege liability against us for all or part of the amounts in question. Claimants may seek large damage awards and these claims may involve potentially significant defense costs. Errors and omissions could include, for example, our employees or sub-agents failing, whether negligently or intentionally, to place coverage or to notify insurance companies of claims on behalf of clients, to provide insurance companies with complete and accurate information relating to the risks being insured or to appropriately apply funds that we hold for our clients. It is not always possible to prevent and detect errors and omissions and the precautions we take may not be effective in all cases. While most of the errors and omissions claims made against us have been covered by our professional liability insurance, subject to our self-insured deductibles, our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be adversely affected if in the future our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable or there is an increase in liabilities for which we self-insure. In addition, errors and omissions claims may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business. Termination of our professional liability insurance policy would adversely impact our financial prospects and our ability to continue our relationships with insurance companies. Without professional liability insurance, it is unlikely that we would be able to continue our relationships with insurance companies, which would adversely impact our financial prospects. Although we have an acceptable claims history, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our professional liability insurance and in the event of the termination or non-renewal of our professional liability insurance policy, we may be unable to acquire this insurance on acceptable terms, or at all. Insufficient internal controls may negatively impact our financial integrity, operations, financial reporting and, ultimately, have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, effectively prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results will be harmed. For example, we restated the presentation of our cash flow statements for years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006 as well as for the three months ended March 31, 2007 to record activity on securitization-related bank lines of credit as financing activities instead of operating activities. Correction of this accounting error resulted in no changes in our net cash flows, net income, assets, liabilities, retained earnings, or earnings per share. The restatement of our previously issued financial statements could expose us to legal and regulatory risk. The defense of any such actions could cause the diversion of management’s attention and resources, and we could be required to pay damages to settle such actions if any such actions are not resolved in our favor. Even if resolved in our favor, such actions could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. Moreover, we may be the subject of negative publicity focusing on the financial statement inaccuracies and resulting restatement and negative reactions from our stockholders, creditors or others with which we do business. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could harm our business and reputation and cause the price of our securities to decline. Our dependence on initial franchise fees creates an incentive for us to extend credit to borrowers that may not meet our stringent underwriting guidelines. A significant part of our revenues are derived from one-time initial fees we receive from assisting franchisees and others with the acquisition of businesses. Generating fees is largely dependent on our franchisees’ and others’ ability to obtain acquisition financing from Aleritas. Our dependence on these initial fees creates an incentive for us to extend credit to borrowers that may not meet our stringent underwriting criteria. Our failure to follow stringent underwriting guidelines could adversely affect the quality of the loans we make and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Some of the initiatives we have undertaken to improve franchisee quality and to reduce the time allowed for franchisees to demonstrate their success may reduce initial franchise fees, cash flow and profitability. In October 2007, Brooke Capital announced a “New Era” initiative that emphasizes franchisee quality over location growth. As a result of the New Era initiative, the amount of initial franchise fees will likely be reduced in future years, which could have an adverse impact on cash flows and profitability. Furthermore, the New Era initiative provided for a decrease in the rate of monthly franchise fees, or royalties, assessed to franchisees which could also have an adverse impact on cash flows and profitability. In the later part of 2005, Brooke Capital reduced, from 18 months to 8 months, the amount of time that start up franchisees were allowed to demonstrate their success. As a result, the number of franchisee developed locations has increased and lenders have experienced increased delinquencies related to loans to start up franchisees secured by locations. This may have an adverse impact on Brooke Capital’s ability to generate initial franchise fees from start up franchisees. Because a significant part of our insurance-related revenues and loans derive from operations located in five states, our business may be adversely affected by conditions in these states. A substantial portion of our insurance-related revenues and loans derive from operations located in the states of Texas, California, Kansas, Florida and Missouri. Our franchisees’ and our revenues and profitability are affected by the prevailing regulatory, economic, demographic, weather, competitive, industry and other conditions in these states. Changes in any of these conditions could make it more costly or difficult for our franchisees and us to conduct our business. Adverse regulatory or industry developments in these states, which could include fundamental changes to the design or implementation of the insurance regulatory framework, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A significant part of Aleritas’ business strategy involves the success of its affiliate, Brooke Capital Advisors, Inc. (“Capital Advisors”), in sourcing managing general agency (“MGA”) and funeral home loans for us, and its failure to generate adequate lending opportunities may adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Aleritas obtains a substantial portion of its business through loans to MGAs and funeral homes sourced by Capital Advisors and Capital Advisors provides, or contracts with third parties to provide, collateral preservation services with respect to these loans. We cannot assure you that Capital Advisors will be able to identify a sufficient number of loan opportunities to enable Aleritas to continue the rate of growth we have seen in our MGA and funeral home loan portfolio. Capital Advisors’ failure to identify and present lending opportunities to Aleritas or Capital Advisors’ failure to provide or contract with third parties to provide collateral preservation services with respect to these loans could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our financial results could be adversely affected. We must continue to refine and expand our marketing capabilities, our management procedures, our network of suppliers, our internal controls and procedures, our access to financing sources and our technology. As we grow, we must continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. We may not be able to hire and train sufficient personnel or develop management and operating systems to manage our expansion effectively. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. We may not achieve the same levels of growth in revenues and profits in the future as we have in the past. Our business has experienced rapid growth. Our ability to continue to grow our business will be subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and will depend in large part on, among other factors: (1) finding new opportunities in our existing and new markets; (2) hiring, training and retaining skilled managers and employees; (3) expanding and improving the efficiency of our operations and systems; (4) maintaining loan 32 Table of Contents quality; (5) maintaining and growing our funding sources and proprietary funding network; (6) growing and maintaining our network of proprietary loan sources; (7) maintaining and growing our network of collateral preservation providers; and (8) maintaining and attracting customers. Accordingly, we may not achieve the same levels of growth in revenues and profits as we have historically. Aleritas has transferred a significant amount of assets and liabilities off balance sheet in reliance on Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 140, “Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities.” In the event transfer of such assets and liabilities is challenged by the SEC, or SFAS 140 is amended based on the provisions of the exposure draft, Aleritas’ current off-balance sheet assets and liabilities could be required to be consolidated in our financial statements. In the ordinary course of business, Aleritas sells its loans to special purpose entities. Some of these sale transactions are classified as true sales pursuant to the FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 140, “Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities” (“SFAS 140”). Transactions involving sales of assets classified as true sales under SFAS 140 have historically been subject to significant scrutiny by the Securities and Exchange Commission and have been an area of debate with the FASB. In August 2005, the FASB issued an exposure draft which amends SFAS 140. This exposure drafts seeks to clarify the derecognition requirements for financial assets and the initial measurement of interests related to transferred financial assets. During July 2006, the FASB continued re-deliberations on the August 2005 revised exposure draft. Aleritas has transferred a significant amount of assets and liabilities off balance sheet in reliance on SFAS 140. In the event our transfer of such assets and liabilities is challenged by the SEC, or SFAS 140 is amended based on the provisions of the exposure draft, Aleritas’ current off-balance sheet liabilities could be required to be consolidated in our financial statements. Our debt instruments contain restrictive covenants and other requirements that may limit our business flexibility by imposing operating and financial restrictions on our operations. Certain of our agreements governing indebtedness contain financial covenants that impose ratios, tests, and restrictions on us, such as maximum prepayment rate; a maximum loan loss rate; a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio; a maximum cash leverage ratio; and a maximum total leverage ratio. Some of our notes also contain other restrictions, including, but not limited to: the incurrence of indebtedness and liens; the disposal of our properties other than in the ordinary course of business; entering into transactions with affiliates or into material agreements other than in the ordinary course of business; entering into pledge and negative pledge agreements; and the declaration of dividends, except in limited circumstances. Our ability to comply with the ratios or tests may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. These covenants may prevent us from expanding our operations and executing our business strategy. In addition, a breach of any of these covenants, ratios or tests could result in a default under the agreements governing our indebtedness. The cash flows we receive from the interests we retain in our securitizations could be delayed or reduced due to the requirements of the agreements we have signed, which could impair our ability to operate. We retain a subordinate interest in our asset-backed securitization transactions. As a result, our receipt of future cash flows is governed by provisions that control the distribution of cash flows from the loans underlying our asset-backed securities. In some circumstances, cash flows from the underlying loans must be used to reduce the outstanding balance of the senior notes issued in the term debt transactions and are not available to us until the full principal balance of the senior notes has been repaid. On a monthly basis, cash flows from the underlying loans in our securitizations must first be used to pay the interest on the senior notes, to pay expenses of the term debt transaction, and to maintain certain required reserves. Poor performance of a pool of loans we securitize could affect future cash flows and, therefore, could impair our ability to operate. 33 Table of Contents When we sell loans classified as a true sale pursuant to the criteria established by SFAS 140, “Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities,” we record a retained interest and/or servicing asset on our balance sheet. The amount we record is determined based upon certain assumptions made by management. If these assumptions are materially inaccurate, we may be required to write down these assets. Subsequent to the initial calculation of the fair value of retained interest and servicing assets, we utilize a fair market calculation methodology to determine their ongoing fair market value. Ongoing fair value is calculated using the then current outstanding principal of the transferred notes receivable and the outstanding balances due unaffiliated purchasers, which are reflective of credit losses and prepayments prior to the fair value recalculation. The rates of write down of the retained interest are based on the current interest revenue stream. This revenue stream is based on the loan balances at the date the impairment test is completed, which will include actual prepayments on loans and any credit losses for those loans. If the assumptions used by management in the initial recording of the retained interest or servicing asset prove to be materially inaccurate, the future fair value of the retained interest or servicing asset may be less than originally expected resulting in an impairment loss. Impairment is evaluated and measured annually. An impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Most of the loans we make are to privately-owned small- and medium-sized companies, which present a greater risk of loss than loans to larger companies. Aleritas’ portfolio consists primarily of commercial loans to small and medium-sized, privately owned businesses. Compared to larger, publicly owned firms, these companies generally have more limited access to capital and higher funding costs, may be in a weaker financial position and may need more capital to expand or compete. These financial challenges may make it difficult for our borrowers to make scheduled payments of interest or principal on our loans. Accordingly, advances made to these types of borrowers entail higher risks than advances made to companies who are able to access traditional credit sources. The collateral securing a loan may not be sufficient to protect us from a partial or complete loss if the loan becomes non-performing, and we are required to foreclose. While most of Aleritas’ loans are secured by a lien on specified collateral of the borrower, there is no assurance that the collateral securing any particular loan will protect us from suffering a partial or complete loss if the loan becomes non-performing and we move to foreclose on the collateral. The collateral securing our loans is subject to inherent risks that may limit our ability to recover the principal of a non-performing loan. Listed below are some of the risks that may affect the value of different types of collateral in which we typically take a security interest. • our valuation of the collateral at the time we made the loan was not accurate; • there is a reduction in the demand for a borrower’s products or services; • the value of the collateral decreases due to loss of key customers, key employees or producers, changes in market or industry conditions (including the softening insurance market environment), borrower actions, ineffective or poor management, increased competition or other reason; and • the failure of the borrower to adequately maintain existing or recruit new customers; Our insurance agency and managing general agency loans are not generally secured by tangible assets. Furthermore, our funeral home loans are generally not fully secured by tangible assets. Consequently, if any of these loans becomes non-performing, we could suffer a loss of some or all of our value in the loan. Our lending involves lending money to a borrower based primarily on the expected cash flow, profitability and enterprise value of a borrower rather than on the value of its tangible assets. Thus, if one of our loans becomes non-performing, our primary recourse to recover some or all of the principal of our loan would be to force the 34 Table of Contents sale of the entire company as a going concern. The risks inherent in our type of lending include, among other things, the following: • reduced use of or demand for the borrower’s products or services and, thus, reduced cash flow of the borrower to service the loan, as well as reduced value of the borrower as a going concern; • poor accounting systems of the borrower which adversely affect our ability to accurately predict the borrower’s cash flows; • economic downturns, political events and changes, regulatory changes, litigation that affects the borrower’s business, financial condition and prospects; and • poor management performance. Additionally, many of our borrowers use the proceeds of our loans to make acquisitions. Poorly executed or poorly conceived acquisitions can tax management, systems and the operations of the existing business, causing a decline in both the borrower’s cash flow as well as the value of its business as a going concern. In addition, many acquisitions involve new management teams taking over control of a business. These new management teams may fail to execute at the same level as the former management team, which could reduce the cash flow of the borrower to service the loan as well as reduce the value of the borrower as a going concern. We may incur lender liability as a result of our lending activities. In recent years, a number of judicial decisions have upheld the right of borrowers to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed “lender liability.” Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or shareholders. We may be subject to allegations of lender liability. We cannot assure you that these claims will not arise or that we will not be subject to significant liability if a claim of this type did arise. Aleritas’ loans to foreign borrowers may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in loans to U.S. borrowers. As of December 31, 2007, approximately $11.8 million of our on-balance sheet loan portfolio are balances of Canadian borrowers. These loans may expose us to risks not typically associated with loans to U.S. borrowers. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. To the extent that any of our loans are denominated in foreign currency, they will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation, and political developments. We do not currently employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks. Many of Aleritas’ borrowers are captive insurance agents, and, therefore, are dependent on the continued success, competitiveness, credit quality and financial condition of the captive carrier they represent. Many of our borrowers are captive agents and, therefore, represent primarily one insurance carrier and derive revenues from commissions paid by primarily one carrier. If this carrier’s products become uncompetitive, the carrier is subject to negative publicity, the carrier experiences regulatory concerns, the commission rate the carrier pays its agents is reduced, the premiums charged to the carriers customers is reduced and, correspondingly, the commissions based on such premiums are reduced, the rating of the carrier is lowered, or the carrier otherwise experiences a material adverse condition or event, our borrower may 35 Table of Contents likewise experience a material adverse effect which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Losses sustained by our Bermuda captive insurance companies may adversely affect us. Our captive insurance company subsidiaries, DB Indemnity, Ltd. and The DB Group, Ltd., domiciled in Bermuda, are directly liable for losses and loss adjustment expenses under the terms of the insurance policies that they write. DB Indemnity and The DB Group are required by Bermuda law to maintain minimum levels of statutory capital and surplus. In addition, each of DB Indemnity and The DB Group is required to maintain a minimum liquidity ratio whereby the value of its relevant assets is not less than a specified percentage of the amount of its relevant liabilities. If DB Indemnity and The DB Group fail to accurately assess the risks they assume, they may fail to establish appropriate premium rates and their reserves may be inadequate to cover their losses. Claim reserves represent estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections at a given point in time of expectations of the ultimate settlement and administrative costs of claims incurred. Captives use actuarial models as well as historical industry loss development patterns to assist in the establishment of appropriate claim reserves. For both casualty and property losses, actual claims and claim expenses paid may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates of DB Indemnity and The DB Group. If the claim reserves of DB Indemnity and/or The DB Group are determined to be inadequate, one or both of them will be required to increase claim reserves with a corresponding reduction in net income in the period in which the deficiency is rectified. Even though most insurance contracts have policy limits, the nature of property and casualty insurance and reinsurance is that losses can exceed policy limits for a variety of reasons and could significantly exceed the premiums received on the underlying policies. Our captives have not incurred any claims or claims expenses; however, claims, claims settlement patterns, legislative activity, social and economic patterns, and litigation and regulatory trends, all of which are difficult to predict, may have a substantial impact on the future loss experience of DB Indemnity and/or The DB Group. If the reserves of DB Indemnity and/or The DB Group are insufficient to cover claims, this could have a material adverse effect on future earnings DB Indemnity and/or The DB Group contribute to us and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our prospects. In addition, if the reserves of DB Indemnity or The DB Group are insufficient to cover claims, because the risks insured are risks of the Company and its franchisees, in some instances, we may have to pay losses for which the reserves of DB Indemnity or The DB Group were not adequate to cover. Our reliance on the Internet could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to meet customer expectations. We rely heavily on the Internet in conducting our operations. A main component of our franchise program is providing franchisees and their personnel access to documents and other data over the Internet. This service requires efficient operation of Internet connections from franchisees and franchisee personnel to our system. These connections, in turn, depend on efficient operation of web browsers, Internet service providers and Internet backbone service providers, all of which have experienced periodic operational problems or outages in the past and over which we have no control. Any system delays, failures or loss of data, whatever the cause, could reduce customer satisfaction with our services and products. Moreover, despite the implementation of security measures, our computer system may be vulnerable to computer viruses, program errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. These events could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to meet customer expectations. Our network may be vulnerable to security breaches and inappropriate use by Internet users, which could disrupt or deter future use of our services. Concerns over the security of transactions conducted on the Internet and the privacy of users may inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services. Our failure to successfully prevent security breaches could significantly harm our business, reputation and results of operations and could expose us to lawsuits by state and federal consumer protection agencies, by governmental authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and by consumers. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate 36 Table of Contents proprietary information, including personal customer data, cause interruptions in our operations or damage our brand and reputation. A breach of our security measures could involve the disclosure of personally identifiable information and could expose us to a material risk of litigation, liability or governmental enforcement proceedings. We cannot assure you that our financial systems and other technology resources are completely secure from security breaches, password lapses or sabotage, and we have occasionally experienced attempts at “hacking.” We may be required to incur significant additional costs to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any of these types of breaches. Any well publicized compromise of our security or the security of any other Internet provider could deter people from using our services or the Internet to conduct transactions that involve transmitting confidential information or downloading sensitive materials, which could have a detrimental impact on our franchise network. Furthermore, computer viruses may affect our ability to provide our services and adversely affect our revenues. Moreover, if a computer virus affecting our system were highly publicized, our reputation could be significantly damaged, resulting in the loss of current and future franchisees and customers. We are in highly competitive markets, which could result in reduced profitability. We expect the historical success of our company to attract others to our target markets who will strive to compete directly or indirectly against us. Increased competition may reduce demand for our products and limit the amount of revenues and earnings we report. Our franchisees face significant competition. The popularity of Internet sales and enactment of the Financial Services Modernization Act have increased the number of potential competitors and allow highly capitalized competitors, like banks, to offer certain kinds of insurance products and services which are competitive with the products and services of our franchisees and life insurance subsidiary. If our prediction that the number of agents will increase is accurate, we will face greater competition for the services we provide to our franchisees. The life insurance industry is extremely competitive. There are a large number of insurance companies that are substantially larger, offer more diversified product lines and have larger selling organizations and customer bases than First Life America Corporation. The banking industry is also highly competitive. Brooke Savings Bank competes with a large number of federal and state banks for deposits and loans, and with savings and loan associations and credit unions for deposits. There are many new changes in technology, product offerings and regulation in the industries in which we operate and many of our competitors in such industries have greater financial resources and market acceptance than we do. Competitors may develop or offer more attractive or lower cost products and services than ours which could erode our customer base. Our management, facilities and labor force may be insufficient to accommodate expected growth. If we grow more quickly than anticipated, our management, facilities and labor force may become insufficient to accommodate our expected growth. Also, although we have safeguards for emergencies and have arranged for back-up facilities to process information if the processing center in Phillipsburg, Kansas is not functioning, the occurrence of a major catastrophic event or other system failure at our processing center could interrupt document processing or result in the loss of stored data. We compete in highly regulated industries, which may result in increased expenses or restrictions in our operations. We conduct business in a number of states and are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by government agencies in many of the states in which we do business. The primary purpose of such regulation and supervision is to provide safeguards for policyholders rather than to protect the interests of shareholders. The laws of the various state jurisdictions establish supervisory agencies with broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things, licensing to transact business, licensing of agents and unfair trade practices. We are a federal savings and loan holding company subject to regulation by the Office of Thrift Supervision and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and subject to the laws and regulations of the State of 37 Table of Contents Kansas and other states relating to insurance holding companies. Regulation of holding companies includes reporting requirements, maintenance of capital and financial condition, restrictions on affiliate transactions, restrictions on dividends, corporate governance requirements and commitments made during the holding company application process. Although we believe that we are currently in material compliance with statutes, regulations and ordinances applicable to our business and commitments made to government agencies, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance without incurring significant expense, or at all. There is also no assurance that we have correctly determined the applicability of all statutes, regulations, ordinances and government commitments to our business, including, without limitation, the applicability of federal preemption of state law for activities believed by us to be subject to such preemption. In addition, our franchisees are also subject to comprehensive regulations and supervision and we cannot ensure their correct determination of the applicability of statutes, regulations and ordinances to their businesses and their material compliance therewith. Our failure to comply, or the failure of our franchisees to comply, with any current or subsequently enacted statutes, regulations, ordinances and commitments to government agencies could result in regulatory actions and negative publicity and have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, the adoption of additional statutes, regulations and ordinances, the agreement to further commitments to government agencies, changes in the interpretation and enforcement of current statutes, regulations and ordinances, changes in our ability to exert federal preemption, or the expansion of our business into jurisdictions that have adopted more stringent regulatory requirements than those in which we currently conduct business, could have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to franchise law and regulations that govern our status as a franchisor and regulate some aspects of our franchise relationships. Our ability to develop new franchise locations and to enforce contractual rights against franchisees may be adversely affected by these laws and regulations, which could cause our franchise revenues to decline and adversely affect our growth strategy. We are subject to federal and state laws and regulations, including the regulations of the Federal Trade Commission, as well as similar authorities in individual states, in connection with the offer, grant and termination of franchises and the regulation of the franchisor-franchisee relationship. Our failure to comply with these laws could subject us to liability to franchisees and to fines or other penalties imposed by governmental authorities. In addition, we may become subject to litigation with, or other claims filed with state or federal authorities by, franchisees based on alleged unfair trade practices, implied covenants of good faith and fair dealing, payment of royalties, location of stores, advertising expenditures, franchise renewal criteria or express violations of franchise agreements. We cannot assure you that we will not encounter compliance problems from time to time, or that material disputes will not arise with one or more franchisees. Accordingly, our failure to comply with applicable franchise laws and regulations, or disputes with franchisees, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and growth strategy. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our Chairman of the Board, Robert D. Orr, is able to exert significant control over us and may act in a manner that is adverse to our other shareholders’ interests. As of February 29, 2008, Robert D. Orr, our Chairman of the Board, beneficially owned approximately 43% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, he is able to exert significant influence over: • the nomination, election and removal of our board of directors; • the adoption of amendments to our charter documents; • our management and policies; and • the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Mr. Orr’s interests may conflict with the interests of other holders of our common stock and he may take actions affecting us with which other shareholders may disagree. For example, in order to retain his relative 38 Table of Contents ownership position in our common stock, Mr. Orr may decide not to enter into a transaction in which our shareholders would receive consideration for their shares that is much higher than the cost of their investment in our common stock or than the then current market price of our common stock. Any decision regarding the ownership of our company that Mr. Orr may make at some future time will be in his absolute discretion. As we are no longer a controlled company, we must comply with the corporate governance requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market. Until June 28, 2007, we were a controlled company because Brooke Holdings, Inc., Robert D. Orr, Leland G. Orr, Michael S. Lowry, Anita F. Larson and Kyle L. Garst owned approximately 51% of our outstanding common stock and had orally agreed to vote their shares of common stock together as a group. As a result of a private placement of units in 2007, this group owned approximately 45% of our outstanding common stock and it has since disbanded. Therefore, we are no longer a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Marketplace rules and, thus, are required to have a board of directors comprised of a majority of independent directors and nominating and compensation committees composed entirely of independent directors. If we are unable to comply with the corporate governance requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock could be delisted from that stock exchange. Our relatively low trading volume may limit shareholders’ ability to sell their shares. Although shares of our common stock are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, our average daily trading volume has been approximately 30,300 shares during the three months ended February 29, 2008. As a result of this low trading volume, shareholders may have difficulty selling a large number of shares of our common stock in the manner or at the price that might be attainable if our common stock were more actively traded. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for shareholders to resell common stock when they want or at a price they find attractive. Since January 1, 2005, our common stock has traded at prices (adjusted for dividends and splits) ranging between $2.51 and $19.86 on the American Stock Exchange (until June 2005) and the NASDAQ Global Market. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. Our common stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • actual or anticipated changes in the dividends we pay on our common stock; • recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in interest rates and other general economic conditions; • significant acquisitions, divestitures or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends, concerns, litigation, regulatory changes and other issues in our industry; • geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts; and • relatively low trading volume. Kansas law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that shareholders may consider favorable. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and our bylaws and of Kansas law may discourage, delay or prevent transactions that our shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions that could 39 Table of Contents provide for payment of a premium over the prevailing market price of our common stock, and also may limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for our common stock. For example, our articles of incorporation contain provisions, such as allowing our board of directors to issue preferred stock with rights superior to those of our common stock without the consent of our shareholders, which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. In addition, our bylaws establish that our independent directors have neither the right nor the obligation to vote for the nomination, election or removal of directors of our company; those rights and obligations rest solely with the representative of our controlling shareholder group. 