Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” in this report and include, but are not limited to: • A significant part of our business strategy involves adding new franchise locations, and our failure to grow may adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. • Our franchisees’ financial performance may adversely affect their ability to repay amounts due to us. • Our financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to fund our loans through sales to third parties. • We make certain assumptions regarding the profitability of our securitizations which may not prove to be accurate. • The value of the collateral securing our loans to borrowers may be adversely affected by our borrowers’ actions. • Potential litigation and regulatory proceedings regarding commissions, fees, contingency payments, profit sharing and other compensation paid to brokers or agents could materially adversely affect our financial condition. • We are dependent on key personnel. • We may be required to repurchase loans sold with recourse or make payments on guarantees. • We may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting. • Efforts to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will entail significant expenditures; non-compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us. • We compete in a highly regulated industry, which may result in increased expenses or restrictions in our operations. • Changes in economic, political and regulatory environments, governmental policies, laws and regulations, including changes in accounting policies and standards and taxation requirements (such as new tax laws and new or revised tax law interpretations) could materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any of these forward-looking statements, whether because of future events, new information, a change in our views or expectations, or otherwise. We make no prediction or statement about the market performance of our shares of common stock. 1 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. We sell property and casualty insurance, and other services to individuals and small businesses through our network of more than 560 franchised locations (552 as of December 31, 2005). We provide our franchisees with wealth creation opportunities associated with independent business ownership while offering operational assistance more typical of a large insurance distribution company. In exchange for initial franchise fees and a share of ongoing revenues, Brooke Franchise Corporation provides Brooke franchise agencies with access to the products of many leading insurance companies, marketing assistance and administrative support. As part of our strategy, Brooke Credit Corporation lends to our franchisees to fund the acquisition of franchises or the start up of new franchises. Brooke Brokerage Corporation acts as a wholesale insurance broker for both unaffiliated agents and our franchise agents with respect to hard-to-place and niche insurance and brokers loans for general insurance agencies, captive insurance agencies, funeral homes and other small businesses. We also conduct limited self-insurance operations through our Bermuda captive insurance companies. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we had total operating revenues and net income of $145,418,000 and $9,705,000, respectively, compared to $101,923,000 and $6,694,000, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2004. Brooke Franchise Corporation Brooke Franchise is one of the largest franchisors of property and casualty insurance agencies in the United States, based on number of locations. We offer to our franchise network access to the products of many leading insurance carriers, marketing and business management support, back office assistance, financial management tools and association with an emerging brand identity. According to Entrepreneur Magazine, January 2006, we were ranked first in our industry category of franchisors of miscellaneous financial services based on factors such as financial strength, stability, growth rate and size of system. Currently, we franchise businesses primarily in the following three specialties: • General insurance services. Franchise locations that sell primarily property and casualty insurance, such as homeowners and small business insurance. • Auto insurance services. Franchise locations, typically in a storefront environment, that focus on drivers with higher risk profiles. • Business insurance services. Franchise locations that primarily sell property, liability, commercial auto, workers compensation and other insurance to small business owners. We have also franchised businesses that primarily sell (a) group and individual health insurance, life insurance, annuities and securities, such as mutual funds, or (b) insurance and investments to prepay burial and other funeral expenses, as well as funeral and cremation services. Based on commission revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005, we generated approximately 75% of our retail commission income from personal lines insurance, such as auto and homeowners insurance, and approximately 25% from commercial lines insurance such as business owners insurance. The following table shows revenues generated through our network of franchise locations by business specialty for the year ended December 31, 2005 (in thousands): Specialty Year endedDecember 31,2005 General Insurance $ 50,877 Auto Insurance 28,338 Business Insurance 26 Other Services 1,249 Total commissions $ 80,490 2 Table of Contents Franchisees. Our franchisees are typically entrepreneurial individuals with experience in the sale of insurance, or, in a limited number of cases, financial services or funeral services, and smaller businesses with annual revenues of less than $1 million. We believe that these entrepreneurial individuals and smaller businesses will benefit from the business, operational and marketing support that we offer. Because they are locally owned and operated by motivated entrepreneurs, we believe that our franchises will perform better than their competitors. Our franchisees generally either convert an existing insurance agency to a franchise or form a new insurance agency. As of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, we had 552, 370 and 234 franchise locations, respectively. The following table shows the states that have more than fifteen of our franchise locations as of December 31, 2005. State Number ofFranchise Locations Property andCasualty Insurance Conversions Start up Texas 101 96 61 40 Kansas 82 82 73 9 Florida 60 58 56 4 California 58 58 50 8 Arizona 34 33 16 18 Missouri 26 26 19 7 Illinois 23 18 17 6 Colorado 23 22 15 8 Virginia 19 19 16 3 The other 20 states in which we operate had a total of 126 franchise locations as of December 31, 2005, of which 114 were property and casualty insurance agencies (including general insurance, auto insurance and business insurance businesses), 87 were conversion franchisees and 39 were start up franchisees. The conversions and start ups include our property and casualty insurance agencies as well as our financial services and funeral services locations. Support for our franchisees. We offer to our franchisees business opportunities and efficiencies more typical of a large company and other resources, including: Access to the products of leading insurance carriers. As a general matter, insurance companies require their independent agents to produce specified minimum premium volumes in order to continue selling their products. While smaller insurance agencies can generally meet such minimum premium volumes for one or even a few carriers, it is often difficult for such insurance agencies to meet these minimum requirements for many carriers, thereby limiting the agent’s ability to offer an array of insurance products. We aggregate the insurance premium volumes generated by our franchisees, approximately $585,000,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005, in order to gain access to the insurance products of hundreds of insurance companies, including 11 of the 15 largest property and casualty insurers in the United States, as measured by net premiums written, such as Drive Insurance from Progressive, American International Group, Chubb, St. Paul Travelers and Hartford, and other national carriers such as Safeco and Met Life Auto and Home. This consolidated purchasing power generally allows our franchisees to have far more insurance products to sell than they would have on their own. Professional marketing. We have a full-service advertising facility and specialized teams of marketing professionals who assist our franchisees in identifying potential customers, developing cooperative advertising and measuring marketing effectiveness. Our lead generation system, which includes referrals from insurance companies, lead brokers, e-mail solicitations and our on-line quote request system, helps our franchisees identify prospective customers. We employ a total of 25 marketing professionals to serve our growing network. 3 Table of Contents Business administration. We provide a range of administrative support services to our franchisees that enhance operating efficiency. First, we provide cash management services such as daily consolidation of all cash collected by franchisees and reconciliation of sales commissions and other revenue to the franchisee’s account statement. As part of our cash management services, in order to assist our franchisees with the monthly fluctuation of revenues, we also make short-term commission advances to our franchisees, which we generally expect to be repaid within 120 days. As of December 2005, there was approximately $4,047,000 of principal amount of these commission advances outstanding, of which $1,859,000 had been outstanding for more than 120 days. We also make advances to franchisees for long-term producer development, including hiring and training of new franchise employees, and for other reasons not related to monthly fluctuations of revenues. As of December 2005, there were approximately $3,334,000 of commission advances outstanding for such purposes, of which $527,000 had been outstanding for more than 90 days. Second, we store our franchisees’ customer documents as electronic images and maintain customer name and address data for accurate ownership identification. Third, we have established buying groups to assist our franchisees in the purchase of office equipment, supplies and services at bulk discounted rates that may otherwise be unavailable to them. Financial discipline. We work with our franchisees to devise budgets and action plans to help enhance agency performance. We monitor our franchisees’ performance and work with our franchisees to address negative operating trends. As a result, we generally can identify those franchisees who may have difficulty in meeting their obligations to Brooke Credit or who may become unable to repay short-term commission advances within the specified 120-day period. In cases where we identify financial or operational problems, we generally can help instill greater financial discipline by establishing expense controls, making changes in management or, in severe cases, assuming day-to-day management of the franchise pursuant to a management agreement. Buyers assistance. We assist our franchisees in the acquisition and conversion of businesses into our franchises. Our services include pre-closing inspections, human resources reviews, facilities and operations reports, marketing and training plan development and operational consulting. We believe that these resources and systems provide our franchisees the ability to compete favorably against both small independent agencies and the “captive” insurance agencies controlled by large insurance companies, such as Allstate Insurance Group, State Farm, Farmers Insurance and Nationwide Group. We believe that our franchisees have significantly greater resources, including access to the products of many insurance carriers, than most small, independently owned property and casualty insurance agencies. Further, we believe our franchisees’ ability to offer their customers the products of many insurance carriers provides them with a competitive advantage over “captive” insurance agencies, who generally can offer to their customers only the products of their affiliated insurance carrier. Business model. We generate revenues through our network of franchise locations in the following ways: Share of ongoing revenues. As part of our franchise relationship, we receive a percentage of the ongoing revenues of each franchisee, which is generally 15% of our insurance agency franchisees’ revenues. In most cases, we receive cash commission payments directly from the insurance companies that write the policies sold by our franchisees. We then remit to our franchisees the balance of the commissions, net of any loan payments, other amounts owed to us and our percentage of these commission revenues. Franchise fees. We earn initial franchise fees from franchisees converting an existing agency into a new franchise and from those franchisees starting up a new franchise. These fees include: • Basic services fees. In exchange for a basic franchise fee of $135,000 per location ($125,000 per agreement in 2005), we provide our conversion and start up franchisees with a business model, use of a registered trade name, access to the products of our insurance company suppliers and use of our Internet-based management system. 4 Table of Contents • Buyers assistance fees. For those franchisees acquiring and converting an existing insurance agency into one of our franchised locations, we provide, among other things, an inspection of the agency to be acquired, human resources review, and a conversion and marketing transition strategy. Initial franchise fees associated with these services usually equal approximately 50% of the annual gross revenues of the agency to be acquired and converted, less the initial franchise fees for basic services. • Start up assistance fees. In 2004, we began recruiting experienced insurance agents to start up new business locations, opening 41 new start up locations that year and 106 new start up locations in 2005. We did not charge any additional initial franchise fees for start up services provided to these franchisees other than our fee for basic services. Seller consulting fees. We advise the owners of insurance agencies and, to a lesser extent, other businesses on the sale of their businesses to our franchisees and, in a limited number of cases, to unaffiliated third parties. We help sellers develop business profiles and tabulate revenues, share sample sales agreements and assist with general sale preparation. These consulting fees usually equal 10% of the total purchase price of the agency to be sold. The following table shows the revenues and fees we received from our franchisees for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 (in thousands): Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Share of Ongoing Revenues(1) $ 16,257 $ 10,894 $ 5,359 Initial Franchise Fees Basic Services 19,375 8,795 425 Buyers Assistance 10,133 8,122 8,147 Seller Consulting Fees 4,916 5,236 4,109 (1) Share of ongoing revenues represents Brooke Franchise’s insurance commissions less commission expense. Brooke Credit Corporation Brooke Credit specializes in lending to our franchisees to fund the acquisition of our franchises, initial franchise fees, and, in certain cases, working capital needs. We also extend credit to borrowers to acquire non-franchised businesses such as captive insurance agencies, general insurance agencies specializing in hard-to-place insurance sales and funeral homes. We believe that our acquisition financing, which can be difficult for insurance entrepreneurs to access, helps facilitate independent ownership and helps us to grow our franchise network. Business model. Brooke Franchise and specialized business consultants assist Brooke Credit in monitoring our borrowers’ business performance, identifying negative operating trends and providing management expertise to address these trends. To reduce our risk of loss on loans made to our franchisees, we have developed tools to preserve collateral and mitigate losses, including: Receipt of cash directly from insurers. When our franchisees sell an insurance policy, the insurance carrier, in most cases, pays the commission directly to us, not to our franchisee. We deduct our percentage of the revenues, monthly loan payments and any other amounts owed to us before we distribute the balance to our franchisees. Ability to monitor our franchisees and take action. In addition to controlling the initial receipt of our franchisees’ commission revenues, we help our franchisees set budgets, control operating expenses and develop marketing plans. We review reports monthly and have daily access to financial data on our franchisees, which enables us to identify potential shortfalls in cash flow at a relatively early stage. In cases where we identify financial or operational problems, we generally are able to take prompt corrective action, such as establishing greater expense controls or, in severe cases, assuming day-to-day operating control of the franchise. 5 Table of Contents Loan underwriting. In determining whether to make a loan, we conduct a thorough review of a potential borrower, including risk profiling and personality testing. We also analyze revenue, supplier relationships, marketing activities, producer relationships and customer retention. Back-office administration. Our franchise agreements require that we provide trust accounts for customer receipts, centralized storage of customer files, and accounting for and disbursement of revenues. In the event that we must assume operating control over a franchisee borrower, we have the information and records necessary for continued operations. In the case of non-franchised loans, such as funeral home loans, we use specialized business consultants and industry experts to assist us with collateral preservation and loss mitigation. Loan origination. We originate loans through referrals from Brooke Franchise because of its extensive recruiting review process and its franchisee management systems. We also originate loans through submissions from loan brokers and consultants who we believe can refer high quality borrowers in businesses such as insurance agencies and funeral homes. The following table shows information regarding our loans as of or for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, as the case may be (dollars are shown in thousands): Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Loan balances outstanding $ 277,414 $ 183,384 $ 112,732 Loan balances held by participating lenders 92,608 85,414 72,031 Loan balances held by securitization entities 140,865 53,326 29,891 Loan balances held on our balance sheet 43,941 44,644 10,810 Gain on sale recognized 7,435 2,475 4,368 Loan origination fees 2,640 2,421 1,132 Interest and servicing income 10,360 5,072 1,819 Number of loans outstanding to franchisees 860 655 403 Number of loans outstanding to non-franchisees 101 77 52 No amounts of recourse loans or loans associated with securitizations were charged off during the year ended December 31, 2005 and no such loans were delinquent 60 days or more as of December 31, 2005. Of inventory loans, principal balances of approximately $627,000 were 60 or more days past due as of December 31, 2005, and $13,000 had been charged off. However, we believe that credit problems of our borrowers are more likely to be identified when Brooke Franchise collects franchisees’ monthly statement account balances than by monitoring Brooke Credit’s loan delinquencies. In instances where our borrowers have failed to perform, we usually have been able to assume management of the franchise in question, address any relevant operating problems and then sell or facilitate the sale of the franchise to another interested party. In these cases, the franchise management expertise of Brooke Franchise and our access to the franchisee’s customer and other records have been critical in allowing us to preserve the value of the franchise and to ultimately achieve full or substantial repayment of the loan principal. Generally, there have been minimal charge-offs on our loans because we generally receive the commissions directly from insurance companies and deduct the loan payments prior to remitting the balance to our borrowers. Loan funding. We fund our loans primarily by selling participation interests in individual loans and selling investments in pools of our loans to an active network of more than 130 commercial banks and finance companies that we have developed. Although traditional lenders typically avoid making acquisition and other loans to insurance agencies directly, our network of funding institutions has been willing to purchase loans from Brooke Credit because of our collateral preservation and loss mitigation tools. To provide short-term financing for our lending operations, in August 2004, we secured a $50 million line of credit through DZ Bank AG Deutsche Zentral-Genossenschaftsbank. The line of credit was increased to $80 million in August 2005. As of 6 Table of Contents December 31, 2005, we had approximately $8,365,000 in loans pledged in connection with this line of credit and approximately $73,922,000 available under this line of credit. We expect that this line of credit will be repaid substantially in full upon the completion of each sale of securities backed by a pool of our loans. Included in our funding programs are a non-rated participation funding program, a self-insured funding program, and a rated securitization funding program. First, our non-rated participation program involves the sale of non recourse loan participation interests in individual loans to our network of commercial banks and finance companies. The sole source of repayment is our borrowers. Second, our self-insured funding program involves the sale of non recourse participation interests in loans that are insured by a financial guaranty policy issued by one of our captive insurance companies. The financial guaranty policy provides coverage, under certain circumstances, for participating lenders, and the policy premiums are paid by our borrowers as part of the loan closing costs. The financial guaranty policy covers actual losses experienced by participating lenders after full liquidation of collateral and application of liquidation proceeds to loan balances and collection costs. Coverage is subject to a maximum of up to $5,000,000 and a deductible equal to 1% of the original principal amount and expires when 50% of the principal balance is repaid. Finally, our rated securitization funding program involves the sale of securities backed by a pool of our loans. Under a typical securitization of these loans, we sell a pool of secured loans to a special purpose entity, generally a limited liability company. The special purpose entity, in turn, usually issues securities that are collateralized by the pool and the holders of those securities are entitled to participate in certain pool cash flows. We have sold five issues of such securities backed by insurance agency loan assets, all of which have an “A” rating from Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services. Brooke Brokerage Corporation Brooke Brokerage serves as a wholesale insurance broker and has binding authority on behalf of certain insurance companies. We assist both unaffiliated agents and franchise agents in finding insurance coverage for hard-to-place and niche risks. In 2005, Brooke Brokerage also began to use its industry contacts and expertise in insurance brokerage to broker loans for, and consult with, general insurance agencies, captive insurance agencies and funeral homes. Through our Bermuda captive insurance companies, we also self insure a portion of our errors and omissions insurance and financial guaranty policies on loans Brooke Credit has made. On December 31, 2005, the captive insurance companies were sold to Brooke Investments, Inc., an affiliate of Brooke Brokerage. We believe that engaging in insurance brokerage allows us to support our franchisees by providing services that would otherwise be provided by a third party. As a result, we are able to generate additional revenues without placing additional costs on our franchisees. We place business with approximately 10 major carriers and syndicates including Scottsdale Insurance Company, ACE European, Penn America and Penn Select Insurance Companies, United National Insurance Company, Burlington Insurance Group, Inc., Sagamore Insurance Company, Founders Insurance Company and Lloyds of London syndicates. The following table shows wholesale commissions and premiums received by Brooke Brokerage through its subsidiaries for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 (in thousands): Year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Wholesale commissions $ 6,382 $ 6,285 $ 5,596 Premiums earned DB Indemnity, Ltd. 945 401 283 DB Group, Ltd. 0 0 0 DB Indemnity, Ltd., a captive insurance company wholly owned by us, self insures a portion of our errors and omissions insurance and issues financial guaranty policies on loans we have made. As of December 31, 2005, DB Indemnity had statutory capital and surplus of $2,147,000. DB Indemnity is a Class 1 Bermuda Captive Insurer, which means that it is only allowed to insure our risks, and not those of unaffiliated third parties. 7 Table of Contents Beginning in 2006, The DB Group, Inc., a Class 3 Bermuda Captive Insurer wholly owned by us, will replace DB Indemnity, Ltd. as the self-insurer of a portion of our errors and omissions insurance. We discontinued plans to reinsure selected hard-to-place and niche insurance policies placed by us with unaffiliated insurance companies to unaffiliated policyholders through The DB Group, Ltd. As of December 31, 2005, The DB Group, Ltd. had not written any policies and had statutory capital and surplus of $1,063,000. On January 23, 2006, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire all of the capital stock of Generations Bank from Kansas City Life Insurance Company for $10.1 million in cash. Generations Bank is a federal savings bank currently located in Kansas City, Missouri. The closing of the stock transaction is subject to regulatory approvals, the existence as of the closing date of not less than $8.2 million in the bank’s GAAP books equity, and standard closing conditions. If approved by the regulators and other closing conditions are met, we expect to use Generations Bank to offer banking services through our franchisees. We believe that a bank acquisition will provide an inexpensive distribution channel for the bank and increase the value of our franchise relationship to independent insurance agents. Typical Transaction We create new franchises primarily by either converting existing insurance agencies into franchises or by helping entrepreneurs to form new franchise agencies. In both “conversion” and “start up” franchise transactions, we generate revenues through initial franchise fees and through receipt of an ongoing share of the franchisee’s revenues. In conversion franchise transactions, we also may earn a fee from the seller of the conversion agency. In a typical conversion transaction, we: Identify insurance agencies for sale. We use tools such as Internet advertising, direct mail campaigns, magazine and newsletter advertisements, e-mail campaigns and our web site to identify potential sellers of insurance agencies. Assist the seller. We help the seller prepare the agency for sale, in exchange for a seller fee generally based upon transaction size, as typically determined by the purchase price of the agency. Identify a buyer. We identify and recruit potential buyers and conduct an extensive underwriting process (including background checks, personal interviews, applications, and personality testing) to determine the prospective buyer’s suitability for agency ownership. Brooke Credit contemporaneously conducts its own underwriting processes in relation to those new franchisees desiring or requiring financing from us. Structure the sale and enter into agreement with seller. Our acquisition agreements typically provide for the transfer of the agency’s assets, a down payment and the remaining purchase price generally paid over three or fewer years. We generally resell the agency to a franchisee on the same day we acquire it. Enter into agreements with buyer. We then enter into an agreement for sale of agency assets and our franchise agreement with the qualified buyer. We also enter into a buyers assistance agreement pursuant to which we consult with the franchisee in purchasing agency assets and preparing for business ownership. Provide the needed financing. A loan originated by Brooke Credit for one of our new franchisees typically calls for a 5-to-10% down payment; a 12-to-15 year maturity; a personal guarantee by the principals of the franchise; an interest rate based on a spread over the New York prime rate; and, loan origination fees. On the same date the loan is originated, we either: (1) retain the loan in our inventory; (2) sell up to 100% of the loan as a participation interest without recourse; or (3) fund the loan through our warehouse credit line and later package it with other loans to be sold as rated securities. In a typical start up transaction, we identify a qualified entrepreneur, enter into our franchise agreement with the entrepreneur, assist in the opening of the new location and provide short-term financing. Typically, after the start up franchise’s first 18 months of operations, we extend permanent financing to qualified start up franchisees on terms generally similar to those provided in a conversion transaction. 8 Table of Contents Industry Opportunity We believe that the large number of both independent insurance agents and small insurance agencies in the United States offers us a significant opportunity to recruit experienced agents and agencies to start up their own franchise locations or to convert to one of our franchises. According to the FutureOne 2004 Agency Universe Study conducted by the Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers of America, there were approximately 39,000 independent insurance agencies in the United States in 2004. Of these insurance agencies, over 20,000 had annual revenues of between $150,000 and $1.25 million. Additionally, according to the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Statistics, in 2004, there were approximately 400,000 individual licensed insurance agents in the United States. We also believe that the average age of these independent agents has been increasing, resulting in increased demand for liquidity and potential availability of agencies for sale. Corporate Structure and Business History Brooke Corporation was incorporated under the laws of the State of Kansas on January 22, 1986, under the name of Brooke Financial Services, Inc. We subsequently amended our articles of incorporation, changing our name to Brooke Corporation. Our principal office is located at 10950 Grandview Drive, Suite 600, Overland Park, Kansas 66210. We are a controlled company. Brooke Holdings, Inc., which owned approximately 47% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2005, Robert D. Orr, Leland G. Orr, Shawn T. Lowry, Michael S. Lowry, Anita F. Larson and Kyle L. Garst, together owned approximately 53% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2005, and have agreed to vote their shares of common stock together as a group. We are a holding company that owns, directly or indirectly through another subsidiary, 100% of the ownership of all our subsidiaries. Our primary business operations are conducted by our subsidiaries. In 1986, we acquired our first property and casualty insurance agency. In 1996, we adopted a “franchise” approach to expansion and developed a lending program under Brooke Credit to facilitate agency ownership transfers. In 2000, we elected to register our common stock under Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and thereafter began filing periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In 2002, we obtained a posting on the OTCBB to offer our shareholders increased liquidity and then subsequently listed on the American Stock Exchange in 2003. Also in 2003, Brooke Credit completed its first two securitizations of insurance agency loans. In 2004, we secured a $50 million line of credit through DZ Bank to assist Brooke Credit in the short-term funding of its franchisee loans. In June 2005, our common stock began trading on the Nasdaq National Market. In August 2005, we increased our line of credit through DZ Bank to $80 million. We announced the opening of our 500th franchise location in November 2005. Brooke Credit completed its fifth securitization in December 2005. Competition As a franchisor of property and casualty insurance agencies, we seek to grow our network of franchises primarily through conversions of existing insurance agencies to franchises and through start up franchise agencies. Our competition for these agencies and experienced agents includes large insurance companies that recruit insurance agents and agencies into their systems, such as Allstate Insurance Group, Nationwide Group and State Farm, all of which are larger and have greater financial resources than us. Because the larger insurance brokers and agents generally seek to acquire agencies with revenues greater than those we acquire, we believe that our franchising strategy offers an attractive alternative for smaller insurance agencies. We also face competition from regional franchisors of insurance agencies, such as Fed USA Insurance/Financial Services and DCAP Group, Inc., and networks of independently owned insurance agencies, such as Strategic Independent Agents Alliance and The Iroquois Group. Our franchisees primarily compete against independent insurance agencies located in their communities, against the locally-placed “captive” insurance agencies of large insurance companies and against large insurance agencies and brokers. Our franchisees compete against these companies for the insurance business of the individual and small business end-customers. The popularity of Internet sales and the passage of the Financial 9 Table of Contents Services Modernization Act also have increased the number of potential insurance and financial services competitors. In the sale of other financial services, our competitors include independent securities representatives, life insurance agents and securities dealers. In funeral and final expense services, competitors of our franchisees include independent, regional and multinational operators of funeral homes, crematoria and cemeteries, as well as publicly traded companies that expand through acquisitions of smaller funeral services providers. In addition, our franchisees face significant competition with respect to pre-need insurance policies, pre-need trusts and other products. In our lending business, our financing services compete against other lenders, primarily banks and other traditional lenders, who have substantially greater resources and market presence than we do. However, most traditional lenders will not finance agency acquisitions due to the intangible nature of the collateral typically offered to secure such loans. Our insurance brokerage product line competes for business with a large number of brokerage companies, some of which are independently owned and others of which are owned by major retail insurance agency companies. Many independent insurance agents and insurance brokers have developed insurance programs for specific market niches and provide significant competition. There are many independent loan brokers and lending institutions that compete for the loan brokerage business sought by our brokerage subsidiary. However, we believe that our industry contacts and the limited markets in which we compete for loans distinguish us from other brokers and lenders. Service Marks, Trademarks and Patents We sell our services and products under service marks and trademarks, license the use of certain marks to our franchisees, and attempt to obtain protection for these marks by registration with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We consider these service marks and trademarks, in the aggregate, to be of material importance to our business, particularly our business segments providing services and products under the “B BROOKE” and design marks and other marks that utilize our “Brooke” name. We have no registered patents that are material to our business. Employees We employed 647 people as of December 31, 2005, of which 550 were employed on a full-time equivalency basis (work 37.5 hours or more per week). Of these employees, Brooke Corporation employed 49 people, Brooke Franchise employed 550 people, Brooke Credit employed 14 people, and Brooke Brokerage subsidiaries employed 34 people. We have never had a work stoppage, and none of our employees are currently represented under collective bargaining agreements. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. Suppliers Most of our revenues currently result from our franchisees’ sales of insurance policies. As such, our primary suppliers are insurance companies, and we have direct and indirect agency relationships with several hundred insurance companies, including several of the leading writers of personal lines and commercial insurance in the United States. Our largest suppliers include Drive Insurance from Progressive, Safeco Insurance Company, AIG Insurance Company, St. Paul Travelers and Allied Insurance Company, which together account for approximately 28% of the commissions generated by our franchisees. We have agency agreements with each of the suppliers listed above. Regulations We are subject to licensing or regulatory approval by the state insurance department in each state in which we do business. Each of our franchise agencies also is subject to licensing or regulatory approval in the state in 10 Table of Contents which it conducts business. Our operations depend on the validity of and our continued good standing under the licenses and approvals under which we operate. Licensing laws and regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In all jurisdictions, the applicable licensing laws and regulations are subject to amendment or interpretation by regulatory authorities, and generally, these authorities are vested with broad discretion as to grant, renewal and revocation of licenses and approvals. We and our franchisees are subject to state laws and regulations pertaining to the charging of fees by insurance agents and brokers and the rebating of premiums and/or commissions. The charging of fees and/or rebating may be prohibited in some states or permitted in others with or without certain limitations. Where permitted, the charging of fees may require that certain disclosures be given to customers and/or that customers agree to the fees in writing. The regulation of rebating can extend to an agent giving anything of value to a customer to induce the purchase of a policy or in connection with the purchase of a policy. We are subject to the unfair trade practices acts of the various states in which we do business. They each define and prohibit unfair methods of competition or unfair or deceptive acts or practices, including misrepresentation of policy terms, false advertising, making false statements, and defamation. Failure to comply with such acts or insurance regulations could have a material adverse effect on us. Brooke Credit’s lending activities are targeted to businesses and are generally unregulated. However, usury and other laws may apply. Although we do not typically make consumer loans, Brooke Credit is licensed as a consumer finance company in Kansas. There are many states that have statutes regulating the activities of brokering loans or providing credit services to individuals or businesses. Such laws may pertain to the receipt of advance fees, misrepresentations or omissions to state any material facts in connection with loans or services, engagement in fraud or deception or registration. We must comply with regulations adopted by the Federal Trade Commission and with several state laws that regulate the offer and sale of franchises. The Federal Trade Commission’s Trade Regulation Rule on Franchising and certain state laws require that we furnish prospective franchisees with a franchise offering circular containing information prescribed by the Trade Regulation Rule on Franchising and applicable state laws and regulations. We also must comply with a number of state laws that regulate certain substantive aspects of the franchisor-franchisee relationship. These laws may limit a franchisor’s business practices in a number of ways, including limiting the ability to: (1) terminate or not renew a franchise without good cause; (2) interfere with the right of free association among franchisees; (3) disapprove the transfer of a franchise; and (4) discriminate among franchisees with regard to charges, royalties and other fees. Our funeral home operations are regulated under the Federal Trade Commission Act which requires funeral service providers to disclose the prices for their goods and services as soon as the subject of price arises in a discussion with a potential customer and to offer their goods and services on an unbundled basis. Our pre-funded funeral insurance products are subject to state regulation, which varies considerably from state to state. Pursuant to the Bermuda Insurance Act of 1978, our Bermuda captive insurance companies are regulated by the Supervisor of Insurance of the Bermuda Monetary Authority. Our captive insurance companies must appoint and maintain a principal representative in Bermuda, appoint an auditor to report on financial statements, meet minimum capital and solvency requirements, maintain certain liquid assets compared to liabilities, file annual statutory financial returns, and comply with other provisions of the Act as amended and with applicable Bermuda regulations. If the acquisition of Generations Bank closes, we will be regulated by the United States Office of Thrift Supervision, which has the authority to regulate, examine and take enforcement action against banks with respect to their financial condition and deposit, lending, investment and other operations. 11 Table of Contents We believe that we are currently in material compliance with all state, federal and foreign regulations to which we are subject and we are unaware of any pending or threatened investigation, action or proceeding by any state, federal or foreign regulatory agency involving us that would have a material adverse effect on us. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Brooke Corporation A significant part of our business strategy involves adding new franchise locations, and our failure to grow may adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our expansion strategy consists principally of adding new franchise locations. Our continued growth is dependent upon a number of factors, including the availability of adequate financing and suitable franchise locations on acceptable terms, experienced management employees, the ability to obtain required government permits and licenses and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition, we compete for acquisition and expansion opportunities with entities that have substantially greater resources than us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to grow our business successfully through adding new franchise locations or by growing the operations of existing franchisees. Our failure to grow could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our franchisees’ financial performance may adversely affect their ability to repay amounts due to us. We have credit exposure with respect to loans made to our franchisees and with respect to our franchisees’ monthly statement balances. We lend money to our franchisees to acquire businesses and, in addition, we assist our franchisees by financing long-term producer development, cyclical fluctuations of revenues, receivables and payables. We make loans to help our franchisees with monthly fluctuations of revenues and record these advances on our franchisees’ monthly statements. We also grant temporary extensions of due dates for franchisee statement balances owed by franchisees to us. To fund long-term producer development of our franchisees, including hiring and training costs, we also extend credit to our franchisees which we refer to as “non-statement balances.” Our franchisees depend on commission income to pay amounts due to us in respect of their loans, in respect of their statement balances, and in respect of their non-statement balances used to finance long-term producer development. If our franchisees’ businesses are not successful, they may be unable to pay statement or non-statement balances to us and may be unable to repay their loans, any of which would have a detrimental effect on us. As of December 2005, franchise statement balances totaled approximately $4 million, of which approximately $1.9 million we identified as “watch” balances because the balances were not repaid in full at least once in the previous four months. Non-statement balances totaled $3.3 million owed to us by our franchisees, of which $527,000 had been outstanding for more than 90 days. Our credit loss reserves are determined primarily by our watch statement balances. Other factors we consider in determining credit loss reserves are statement loss experience, management’s evaluation of the potential for future losses and management’s evaluation of the potential for future recoveries. We may not be able to accurately predict credit losses and, as a result, our credit reserves may not be sufficient to cover future losses, in which case, our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. The ability of our borrowers to repay loans made to them by our finance subsidiary may be adversely affected by an increase in market interest rates. The loans we make to our franchisees and other borrowers through Brooke Credit typically bear interest at a variable or floating interest rate. To the extent that market interest rates increase, our borrowers may be unable to make debt service payments. As a result, an increase in market interest rates will increase the risk of default on the loans made by us. The risk associated with rising interest rates will increase if coupled with a flattening or decreasing of property and casualty insurance premiums, and thus commissions. As well, an increase in interest rates could cause certain insurance companies to reduce their premium rates in an effort to sell more insurance 12 Table of Contents and invest the resulting premiums in fixed-income securities to get the benefit of these higher rates. In such event, the amount of commissions our franchisees earn could be adversely affected, further increasing the risk of default on loans made by us to our franchisees. See “Our business is dependent on the cyclical pricing of property and casualty insurance, which may adversely affect our franchisees’ performance and, thus, our financial performance.” Our financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to fund our loans through sales to third parties. In an effort to broaden our funding sources and to provide an additional source of liquidity, we have sold participation interests in our loans and have accessed, and intend to attempt to continue to access, the asset-backed securitization markets. Under a typical asset-backed securitization, we sell a “pool” of secured loans to a special-purpose entity, generally a limited liability company. The special-purpose entity, in turn, typically issues securities that are collateralized by the pool and the holders of the securities are entitled to participate in certain pool cash flows. Several factors will affect our ability to sell participation interests in our loans and to complete securitizations, including: • conditions in the securities markets, generally; • conditions in the asset-backed securities markets; • the credit quality and performance of our financial instruments and loans; • our ability to adequately service our financial instruments and loans; • our ability to monitor our borrowers and to implement collateral preservation; and • the absence of any material downgrading or withdrawal of ratings given to securities previously issued in our securitizations. We make certain assumptions regarding the profitability of our securitizations and loan participations which may not prove to be accurate. In a securitization or participation sale transaction, we may recognize a gain on sale resulting from related retained interest and/or servicing rights in the securitized pool or loan when we sell the assets. The value assigned to the retained interest and/or servicing asset depends upon certain assumptions we make about future performance of the securitized loan portfolio or participation loan, including the level of credit losses and the rate of prepayments. If actual credit losses or prepayment rates differ from the original assumptions, the value of the retained interest and/or servicing asset may decrease materially. The value of the retained interest and/or servicing asset may also decrease materially as a result of changes in market interest rates. In addition, changes in the volume of assets securitized or loan participations sold due to our inability to access the asset-backed securitization markets, or other funding sources, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Decreases in the value of the retained interests and/or servicing asset in securitizations that we have completed or loan participations we have sold due to market interest rate fluctuations or higher than expected credit losses on prepayments also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value of the collateral securing our loans to borrowers may be adversely affected by our borrowers’ actions. We make loans to franchisees and other borrowers through Brooke Credit primarily for the purpose of allowing them to acquire insurance agencies. These loans are secured by, among other things, insurance agency assets. Insurance agency assets in most cases are intangible, and the value of these assets may rapidly deteriorate 13 Table of Contents if our borrowers do not adequately serve their customers or if the policies they offer are not competitively priced. Reduction in the value of such assets could result in these loans being inadequately secured, which could adversely affect us in the event of a default on these loans. Carrier override and contingent or profit sharing commissions are difficult to predict, and any decrease in our receipt of such payments will adversely affect us. We derive a portion of our revenues from carrier override and contingent or profit sharing commissions based upon the terms of the contractual relationships between our insurance companies and us. Carrier override commissions are commissions paid by insurance companies in excess of the standard commission rates on specific classes of business. These amounts may be, but are not always, contingent on achieving a specific premium volume or profitability of the business. Contingent or profit sharing commissions are commissions paid by insurance companies based on the estimated profit that the companies make on the overall volume of business that we place with such companies. We generally receive these contingent commissions in the first and second quarters of each year. We do not account for carrier overrides separately. However, contingent or profit sharing commissions accounted for approximately four percent of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005. Due to the nature of these commissions, it is difficult for us to predict their payment. Increases in loss ratios experienced by insurance companies will result in a decreased profit to them and may result in decreases in payments of contingent or profit sharing commissions to us. Furthermore, we have no control over insurance companies’ ability to estimate loss reserves, which affects our profit sharing calculation. In addition, tightening of underwriting criteria by certain insurance companies, due in part to high loss ratios, may result in a lower volume of business that we are able to place with them. Our company override and contingent or profit sharing commissions affect our revenues, and decreases in their payment to us may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Potential litigation and regulatory proceedings regarding commissions, fees, contingency payments, profit sharing and other compensation paid to brokers or agents could materially adversely affect our financial condition. The insurance industry has in recent years come under a significant level of scrutiny by various regulatory bodies, including state Attorneys General and the departments of insurance for various states, with respect to contingent compensation and other volume or profit based compensation arrangements. Attorneys General have issued subpoenas to various insurance brokerages and insurance companies. Certain of these investigations have led to complaints being filed against brokerages and insurance companies and some brokerages and insurance companies have stated that they will discontinue accepting or making, respectively, volume based and profit based payments. In addition to government investigations, class action lawsuits relating to these business practices have been filed against various members of the insurance industry. Negative publicity associated with these investigations, lawsuits and resulting settlements have precipitated increased volatility in the prices of securities issued by companies throughout the insurance industry. We have received inquiries from departments of insurance which are related to such compensation arrangements or are related to unethical or unlawful sales practices. These inquiries were not related to specific or general allegations of wrongdoing on our behalf. Rather, these inquiries were sent to numerous agents and brokers based upon their status as a licensed agent or broker, the volume of business they produce or other factors unrelated to allegations of wrongdoing. We cannot predict whether we will receive further inquiries or will receive subpoenas, or will become subject to investigations, regulatory actions, proceedings or lawsuits. The outcome of any such subpoena, investigation, regulatory action, proceeding or lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. The insurance industry has also recently come under a significant level of scrutiny by consumer advocacy groups, and certain media reports have advocated governmental action with respect to contingent and other volume or profit based compensation arrangements. The consumer groups and media reports typically 14 Table of Contents characterize these payments as creating an unacceptable conflict of interest and adding an unnecessary or even unfair consumer cost. If negative characterizations of such compensation arrangements become accepted by consumers, this could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our franchisees’ products and services and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Negative perception of such compensation arrangements or other activities could also result in us being subject to more restrictive laws and regulations as well as increased litigation, which may increase further our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by impeding our ability to market our products and services, requiring us to change our marketing practices, products or services and increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate. Our business is dependent on the cyclical pricing of property and casualty insurance, which may adversely affect our franchisees’ performance and, thus, our financial performance. Our franchisees are primarily engaged in insurance agency and brokerage activities and derive revenues from commissions paid by insurance companies, which commissions are based in large part on the amount of premiums paid by our franchisees’ customers to such insurance companies. In turn, we earn fees from our franchisees based upon the amount of such commissions payable by insurance companies, which fees make up a substantial portion of our revenues. Neither we nor our franchisees determine insurance premiums. Premium rates are determined by insurers based on a fluctuating market. Historically, property and casualty insurance premiums have been cyclical in nature, characterized by periods of severe price competition and excess underwriting capacity, or soft markets, which generally have an adverse effect upon the amount of commissions earned by our franchisees, followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity, or hard markets. The current insurance market generally may be characterized as “soft,” with a flattening or decreasing of premiums in most lines of insurance. As insurance carriers continue to outsource the production of premium revenue to independent brokers or agents, such as our franchisees, those insurance carriers may seek to reduce further their expenses by reducing the commission rates payable to our franchisees. The reduction of these commission rates, along with general volatility and/or declines in premiums, may significantly undermine our franchisees’ and our profitability. A reduction in commission rates may significantly undermine our borrowers’ ability to repay loans to us. Because we do not determine the timing and extent of premium pricing changes, we cannot accurately forecast our commission revenues, including whether they will significantly decline. As a result, our budgets for future acquisitions, capital expenditures, credit loss reserves, dividend payments, loan repayments and other expenditures may have to be adjusted to account for unexpected changes in revenues. We may not be able to successfully convert new franchises. Our ability to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, convert acquired businesses into our franchisees, and expand into new markets will require us to continue to implement and improve our operations, financial and management information systems. Our new franchises may not achieve levels of revenue, profitability, or productivity comparable to our existing franchises, or otherwise perform as expected. In addition, when we make an acquisition and effect a conversion, we are subject to a number of special risks, such as entry into unfamiliar markets and unanticipated problems or legal liabilities, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to repurchase loans sold with recourse or make payments on guarantees. In some instances, Brooke Credit has sold loans to investors with full recourse, which may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations in the event Brooke Credit is required to repurchase loans of poor quality. In addition, in connection with our activities of matching business purchasers and sellers, we have sometimes guaranteed payments from purchasers to sellers, which may adversely affect us in the event such a purchaser defaults on its obligations to such a seller. 15 Table of Contents We will be adversely affected if we do not have alternative sources of funds to repay our obligations as they mature. Loans made by Brooke Credit are usually amortized for a period of between twelve years and fifteen years. We have funded a portion of our loan portfolio with a funding facility which will require all or partial repayment by us prior to the time that loans made by us are scheduled to be repaid, and we will be adversely affected if we do not have alternative sources of funds to repay these obligations as they mature. We are dependent on key personnel. We are dependent upon the continued services of senior management, particularly the services of Robert D. Orr, Leland G. Orr, Shawn T. Lowry, Michael S. Lowry, Kyle L. Garst and Anita F. Larson. We have entered into an employment agreement with each of them. The loss of the services of any of these key personnel, by termination, death or disability, or our inability to identify, hire and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on us. We currently do not maintain key employee insurance with respect to any of our officers or employees. Because we intend to change our method of funding our loans, our leverage will increase. Our goal is to recognize fewer gains on loan sales and more net interest revenue. As a result, our current liabilities are expected to increase because more loans will be funded through sales of participations that do not qualify as true sales and through our warehouse facility with DZ Bank AG Deutsche Zentral-Genossenschaftsbank. Our network of participating lenders may become uncomfortable with such an increase in current liabilities. As a result, we may not be able to sell participation interests in loans we originate on terms acceptable to us or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and prospects for growth. Our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be materially adversely affected by errors and omissions. Our franchisees are subject to claims and litigation in the ordinary course of business resulting from alleged errors and omissions. Because we are agent of record on policies written through our franchisees, claims against our franchisees may also allege liability against us for all or part of the amounts in question. Claimants may seek large damage awards and these claims may involve potentially significant defense costs. Errors and omissions could include, for example, our employees or sub-agents failing, whether negligently or intentionally, to place coverage or to notify insurance companies of claims on behalf of clients, to provide insurance companies with complete and accurate information relating to the risks being insured or to appropriately apply funds that we hold for our clients. It is not always possible to prevent and detect errors and omissions and the precautions we take may not be effective in all cases. While most of the errors and omissions claims made against us have been covered by our professional liability insurance, subject to our self-insured deductibles, our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be adversely affected if in the future our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable or there is an increase in liabilities for which we self-insure. In addition, errors and omissions claims may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business. Termination of our professional liability insurance policy would adversely impact our financial prospects and our ability to continue our relationships with insurance companies. Without professional liability insurance, it is unlikely that we would be able to continue our relationships with insurance companies, which would adversely impact our financial prospects. Although we have an acceptable claims history, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our professional liability insurance and in the event of the termination or non-renewal of our professional liability insurance policy, we may be unable to acquire this insurance on acceptable terms, or at all. 16 Table of Contents Efforts to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will involve significant expenditures; non-compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that became law in July 2002 and rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. require changes to some of our accounting and corporate governance practices, including the requirement that we issue a report on our internal controls as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are an accelerated filer (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2) as of June 30, 2006, we will be required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act with respect to the year ended December 31, 2006, and if not an accelerated filer, with respect to the year ended December 31, 2007. We expect these new rules and regulations to continue to increase our accounting, legal and other costs, and to make some activities more difficult, time consuming and/or costly. In the event that we are unable to maintain or achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, we may be adversely affected. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm the value of our common stock. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, effectively prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results will be harmed. In the last two years, we have made significant changes to our operations to improve our internal controls and have hired several individuals who have accounting experience, have accounting degrees and/or are certified public accountants. As a result of these improvements, our independent auditor’s letters to our audit committee in connection with the audits of our 2004 and 2005 results did not note any material weaknesses. We have, in the past, discovered and may in the future discover areas of our internal controls over financial reporting that need improvement. For example, during the audit of our 2003 financial statements, our independent auditors noted certain reportable conditions involving our internal controls and operations, primarily relating to accounting oversight, and indicated that our lack of accounting personnel was a material weakness. In connection with our 2004 audit, our independent auditor noted reportable conditions relating to accounting staff shortages and the need for additional documentation in support of estimates related to revenue recognition. No reportable conditions were noted by our independent auditor in connection with the audit of our financial statements for 2005. To address past reportable conditions, we are continuing to take steps to improve our internal controls. For example, in addition to the hiring additional accounting staff, we have engaged independent accounting firms to assist our internal accounting staff with financial reporting and other accounting related matters. We cannot be certain that these measures, and any other steps we may take, will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operations or results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. As a public company we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Beginning with the year ending December 31, 2006 (or December 31, 2007, depending upon the value of our common stock held by non-affiliates as of June 30, 2006), our management will be required to annually assess and report on our internal controls over financial reporting. We cannot assure you that our management will be able to complete its required assessment by our reporting deadline. If we are unable to adequately establish or improve our internal controls over financial reporting, we may report that our internal controls are ineffective and our independent auditors will not be able to issue an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls. Ineffective internal controls over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock or could affect our ability to access the capital markets, and which could result in regulatory proceedings against us by, among others, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. 17 Table of Contents Our dependence on initial franchise fees creates an incentive for us to extend credit to borrowers that may not meet our stringent underwriting guidelines. A significant part of our revenues are derived from one-time initial fees we receive from assisting franchisees and others with the acquisition of businesses. Generating fees is largely dependent on our franchisees’ and others’ ability to obtain acquisition financing from Brooke Credit. Our dependence on these initial fees creates an incentive for us to extend credit to borrowers that may not meet our stringent underwriting criteria. Our failure to follow stringent underwriting guidelines could adversely affect the quality of the loans we make and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Because a significant part of our loans and insurance-related revenues derive from operations located in five states, our business may be adversely affected by conditions in these states. A substantial portion of our loans and insurance-related revenues derive from operations located in the states of Texas, Kansas, Florida, California and Missouri. Our franchisees’ and our revenues and profitability are affected by the prevailing regulatory, economic, demographic, weather, competitive, industry and other conditions in these states. Changes in any of these conditions could make it more costly or difficult for our franchisees and us to conduct our business. Adverse regulatory or industry developments in these states, which could include fundamental changes to the design or implementation of the insurance regulatory framework, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Losses sustained by our Bermuda captive insurance companies may adversely affect us. Our captive insurance company subsidiary, DB Indemnity, Ltd., domiciled in Bermuda, is directly liable for losses and loss adjustment expenses under the terms of the insurance policies that it writes. In 2006, The DB Group, Ltd., also domiciled in Bermuda, will write some insurance policies relating to our errors and omissions coverage. DB Indemnity and The DB Group are required by Bermuda law to maintain minimum levels of statutory capital and surplus. In addition, each of DB Indemnity and The DB Group is required to maintain a minimum liquidity ratio whereby the value of its relevant assets is not less than a specified percentage of the amount of its relevant liabilities. If DB Indemnity and The DB Group fail to accurately assess the risks they assume, they may fail to establish appropriate premium rates and their reserves may be inadequate to cover their losses. Claim reserves represent estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections at a given point in time of expectations of the ultimate settlement and administrative costs of claims incurred. Captives use actuarial models as well as historical industry loss development patterns to assist in the establishment of appropriate claim reserves. For both casualty and property losses, actual claims and claim expenses paid may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates of DB Indemnity and The DB Group. If the claim reserves of DB Indemnity and/or The DB Group are determined to be inadequate, one or both of them will be required to increase claim reserves with a corresponding reduction in net income in the period in which the deficiency is rectified. Even though most insurance contracts have policy limits, the nature of property and casualty insurance and reinsurance is that losses can exceed policy limits for a variety of reasons and could significantly exceed the premiums received on the underlying policies. Our captives have not incurred any claims or claims expenses; however, claims, claims settlement patterns, legislative activity, social and economic patterns, and litigation and regulatory trends, all of which are difficult to predict, may have a substantial impact on the future loss experience of DB Indemnity and/or The DB Group. If the reserves of DB Indemnity and/or The DB Group are insufficient to cover claims, this could have a material adverse effect on future earnings DB Indemnity and/or The DB Group contribute to the Company and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our prospects. In addition, if the reserves of DB Indemnity or The DB Group are insufficient to cover claims, because the risks insured are risks of the Company and its franchisees, in some instances, we may have to pay losses for which the reserves of DB Indemnity or The DB Group were not adequate to cover. 18 Table of Contents Our reliance on the Internet could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to meet customer expectations. We rely heavily on the Internet in conducting our operations. A main component of our franchise program is providing franchisees and their personnel access to documents and other data over the Internet. This service requires efficient operation of Internet connections from franchisees and franchisee personnel to our system. These connections, in turn, depend on efficient operation of web browsers, Internet service providers and Internet backbone service providers, all of which have experienced periodic operational problems or outages in the past and over which we have no control. Any system delays, failures or loss of data, whatever the cause, could reduce customer satisfaction with our services and products. Moreover, despite the implementation of security measures, our computer system may be vulnerable to computer viruses, program errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. These events could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to meet customer expectations. Our network may be vulnerable to security breaches and inappropriate use by Internet users, which could disrupt or deter future use of our services. Concerns over the security of transactions conducted on the Internet and the privacy of users may inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services. Our failure to successfully prevent security breaches could significantly harm our business, reputation and results of operations and could expose us to lawsuits by state and federal consumer protection agencies, by governmental authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and by consumers. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, including personal customer data, cause interruptions in our operations or damage our brand and reputation. A breach of our security measures could involve the disclosure of personally identifiable information and could expose us to a material risk of litigation, liability or governmental enforcement proceedings. We cannot assure you that our financial systems and other technology resources are completely secure from security breaches, password lapses or sabotage, and we have occasionally experienced attempts at “hacking.” We may be required to incur significant additional costs to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any of these types of breaches. Any well publicized compromise of our security or the security of any other Internet provider could deter people from using our services or the Internet to conduct transactions that involve transmitting confidential information or downloading sensitive materials, which could have a detrimental impact on our franchise network. Furthermore, computer viruses may affect our ability to provide our services and adversely affect our revenues. Moreover, if a computer virus affecting our system were highly publicized, our reputation could be significantly damaged, resulting in the loss of current and future franchisees and customers. We are in a highly competitive market, which could result in reduced profitability. Our franchisees face significant competition. The popularity of Internet sales and enactment of the Financial Services Modernization Act have increased the number of potential competitors and allow highly capitalized competitors, like banks, to offer certain kinds of insurance services which are competitive with the products of our franchisees. If our prediction that the number of agents will increase is accurate, we will face greater competition for the services we provide to our franchisees. Our funeral services franchisees face competition for sales of funeral services from independent, regional and multinational operators, including large publicly traded owners and discount funeral service providers who provide products and services on discount or “a la carte” bases. In addition, they face significant competition with respect to pre-need insurance policies, pre-need trusts and other products. Many of our potential competitors have greater financial resources and market acceptance than we do. Our management, facilities and labor force may be insufficient to accommodate expected growth. If we grow more quickly than anticipated, our management, facilities and labor force may become insufficient to accommodate our expected growth. Also, although we have safeguards for emergencies and have 19 Table of Contents arranged for back-up facilities to process information if the processing center in Phillipsburg, Kansas is not functioning, the occurrence of a major catastrophic event or other system failure at our processing center could interrupt document processing or result in the loss of stored data. We compete in a highly regulated industry, which may result in increased expenses or restrictions in our operations. We conduct business in a number of states and are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by government agencies in many of the states in which we do business. The primary purpose of such regulation and supervision is to provide safeguards for policyholders rather than to protect the interests of shareholders. The laws of the various state jurisdictions establish supervisory agencies with broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things, licensing to transact business, licensing of agents and unfair trade practices. Although we believe that we are currently in material compliance with statutes and regulations applicable to our business, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance without incurring significant expense, or at all. In addition, our franchisees are also subject to comprehensive regulations and supervision and we cannot ensure their material compliance with statutes and regulations applicable to our business. Our failure to comply, or the failure of our franchisees to comply, with any current or subsequently enacted statutes and regulations could have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, the adoption of additional statutes and regulations, changes in the interpretation and enforcement of current statutes and regulations, or the expansion of our business into jurisdictions that have adopted more stringent regulatory requirements than those in which we currently conduct business, could have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to franchise law and regulations that govern our status as a franchisor and regulate some aspects of our franchise relationships. Our ability to develop new franchise locations and to enforce contractual rights against franchisees may be adversely affected by these laws and regulations, which could cause our franchise revenues to decline and adversely affect our growth strategy. We are subject to federal and state laws and regulations, including the regulations of the Federal Trade Commission as well as similar authorities in individual states, in connection with the offer, sale and termination of franchises and the regulation of the franchisor-franchisee relationship. Our failure to comply with these laws could subject us to liability to franchisees and to fines or other penalties imposed by governmental authorities. In addition, we may become subject to litigation with, or other claims filed with state or federal authorities by, franchisees based on alleged unfair trade practices, implied covenants of good faith and fair dealing, payment of royalties, location of stores, advertising expenditures, franchise renewal criteria or express violations of franchise agreements. We cannot assure you that we will not encounter compliance problems from time to time, or that material disputes will not arise with one or more franchisees. Accordingly, our failure to comply with applicable franchise laws and regulations, or disputes with franchisees, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and growth strategy. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Robert D. Orr, is able to exert significant control over us and may act in a manner that is adverse to our other shareholders’ interests. As of December 31, 2005, Robert D. Orr, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned approximately 47% of our outstanding common stock and is the designated representative of the controlling group of shareholders that owns approximately 53% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, he is able to exert significant influence over: • the nomination, election and removal of our board of directors; • the adoption of amendments to our charter documents; 20 Table of Contents • our management and policies; and • the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Mr. Orr’s interests may conflict with the interests of other holders of our common stock and he may take actions affecting us with which other shareholders may disagree. For example, in order to retain control in the controlling group, Mr. Orr may decide not to enter into a transaction in which our shareholders would receive consideration for their shares that is much higher than the cost of their investment in our common stock or than the then current market price of our common stock. Any decision regarding the ownership of our company that Mr. Orr may make at some future time will be in his absolute discretion. We are a controlled company that is exempt from certain stock exchange corporate governance requirements. Our common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq National Market. Nasdaq generally requires a majority of directors to be independent and requires audit, compensation and nominating committees to be composed solely of independent directors. However, under the rules applicable to Nasdaq, if a group of shareholders owns more than 50% of the voting power of a listed company, that company is considered a “controlled company” and, except for the rules relating to independence of the audit committee and meetings of the independent directors in executive sessions, is exempt from these independence requirements. We are a controlled company because Brooke Holdings, Inc., Robert D. Orr, Leland G. Orr, Shawn T. Lowry, Michael S. Lowry, Anita F. Larson and Kyle L. Garst, together own approximately 53% of our outstanding common stock, and have orally agreed to vote their shares of common stock together as a group. The right to nominate, elect and remove directors rests solely with the representative of our controlling shareholder group. A majority of our directors are not independent and our shareholders do not have, and may never have, all the protections that these rules are intended to provide. If we become unable to continue to be deemed a controlled company, we would be required to meet these independence requirements and, if we are not able to do so, our common stock could be delisted from the stock exchange on which it is listed. Our relatively low trading volume may limit shareholders’ ability to sell their shares. Although shares of our common stock are listed on the Nasdaq National Market, our average daily trading volume has been approximately 10,000 shares during the three months ended February 28, 2006. As a result of this low trading volume, shareholders may have difficulty selling a large number of shares of our common stock in the manner or at the price that might be attainable if our common stock were more actively traded. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for shareholders to resell common stock when they want or at a price they find attractive. Since January 1, 2005, our common stock has traded at prices ranging between $9.75 and $26.25 on the American Stock Exchange (until June 17, 2005) or the Nasdaq National Market (on and after June 20, 2005). We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. Our common stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • actual or anticipated changes in the dividends we pay on our common stock; • recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in interest rates and other general economic conditions; 21 Table of Contents • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends, concerns, litigation, regulatory changes and other issues in our industry; • geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts; and • relatively low trading volume. Kansas law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that shareholders may consider favorable. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and our bylaws and of Kansas law may discourage, delay or prevent transactions that our shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions that could provide for payment of a premium over the prevailing market price of our common stock, and also may limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for our common stock. For example, our articles of incorporation contain provisions, such as allowing our board of directors to issue preferred stock with rights superior to those of our common stock without the consent of our shareholders, which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. In addition, our bylaws establish that our independent directors have neither the right nor the obligation to vote for the nomination, election or removal of directors of our company; those rights and obligations rest solely with the representative of our controlling shareholder group. 