ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties. The following identifies those which we consider to be most important: RISKS THAT AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AS A WHOLE An interruption of operations at our Atchison facility could negatively affect our business. The bulk of our ingredient solutions and food grade alcohol production takes place at our facility in Atchison. An interruption in or loss of operations at our Atchison facility, or a strike by our unionized employees at this location, could reduce or postpone production of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. To the extent that our value-added products rely on unique or proprietary processes or techniques, replacing lost production by purchasing from outside suppliers becomes more difficult. Our profitability is affected by the cost of natural gas and of grain and flour that we use in our business, the availability and cost of which are subject to weather and other factors beyond our control. Our hedging strategy may not protect us from changes in prices of commodities and natural gas or translate to a competitive advantage in the marketplace. We may not be able to recoup cost increases in our selling prices due to the competitive environment. Grain and flour costs are a significant portion of our costs of goods sold. Historically the cost of such raw materials has been subject to substantial fluctuations, depending upon a number of factors which affect commodity prices in general and over which we have no control. These include crop conditions, weather, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, purchases by foreign governments, and changes in demand resulting from population growth and customer preferences. The price of natural gas, which comprised approximately 5.9 percent of our cost of goods sold in fiscal 2011, 8 percent of our cost of goods sold in fiscal 2010 and 12 percent of our cost of goods sold in fiscal 2009, also fluctuates, based on anticipated changes in supply and demand, weather and the prices of alternative fuels. Fluctuations in the price of commodities and natural gas can be sudden and volatile at times and have had, from time to time, significant adverse effects on the results of our operations. Formerly, we engaged in the purchase of commodity and natural gas futures and options and in the forward purchases of grain and natural gas to hedge economic risks associated with fluctuating grain and natural gas prices. We no longer engage in such activities based on expected use of our facilities, and now generally purchase derivatives and enter contracts for future delivery only to protect margins on contracted, and a portion of spot market, alcohol sales and expected ingredients sales. On the portion of purchases not hedged, management will attempt to recover higher commodity costs through higher sales prices, but market considerations may not always permit this. Even where prices can be adjusted, there would likely be a lag between when we incur higher commodity or natural gas costs and when we might be able to increase prices. To the extent we do not enter such derivative contracts or engage in forward purchases and are also unable to timely pass increases in the cost of raw materials to our customers under sales contracts, we may be adversely impacted by market fluctuations in the cost of grain and natural gas. Further, our hedging strategy may not be effective in mitigating our exposure to commodity price fluctuations and can result in losses, some of which may be material. See Item. 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk. 17 If ICP incurs losses, it could result in closure of its Pekin plant. This could result in reduced sales and impairment losses for us. ICP’s Limited Liability Company Agreement gives us and our joint venture partner, ICP Holdings, a subsidiary of SEACOR Energy Inc., certain rights to shut down the Pekin plant if ICP operates at an EBITDA loss of $500 in any quarter. Such rights are conditional in certain instances but are absolute if losses aggregate $1,500 over any three consecutive quarters or if ICP’s net working capital is less than $2,500, however both partners have agreed to waive EBITDA losses through June 30, 2011. Losses of such nature are also events of default under ICP’s term loan and revolving credit agreements with its lender, an affiliate (sister company) of SEACOR Energy, Inc., which, upon any requisite notice and/or lapse of time, would entitle the lender to impose a default rate of interest, foreclose on ICP’s assets and, in the case of the working capital deficiency or successive losses, enforce the closure provisions referred to above. During fiscal 2011, ICP experienced EBITDA losses in the quarters ending December 31, 2010 and June 30, 2011. ICP’s lender has waived these EBITDA losses through June 30, 2011. However, if future losses of the requisite magnitudes occur in any quarter or over three consecutive quarters, either we, ICP Holdings or ICP’s lender may elect to exercise its rights under the applicable agreement. In this event, we could be forced to purchase alcohol from third parties at unfavorable prices to satisfy contractual commitments to our customers. We have incurred impairment and restructuring losses in the past and may suffer such losses in the future. We review long-lived assets for impairment at year end or if events or circumstances indicate that usage may be limited and carrying values may not be recoverable. Should events indicate the assets cannot be used as planned, the realization from alternative uses or disposal is compared to their carrying value. If an impairment loss is measured, this estimate is recognized. Considerable judgment is used in these measurements, and a change in the assumptions could result in a different determination of impairment loss and/or the amount of any impairment. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies – Impairment of Long-Lived Assets. The markets for our products are very competitive, and our results could be adversely affected if we do not compete effectively. The markets for products in which we participate are very competitive. Our principal competitors in these markets have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources, and several are much larger enterprises than us. Competition is based on such factors as product innovation, product characteristics, product quality, price, color and name. If market conditions make our specialty ingredients too expensive for use in consumer goods, our revenues could be affected. If our large competitors were to decrease their pricing, we could choose to do the same, which could adversely affect our margins and profitability. If we did not do the same, our revenues could be adversely affected due to the potential loss of sales or market share. Our revenue growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in developing new ingredients products for our customers or through new product introductions by our competitors. In addition, more stringent new customer demands may require us to make internal investments to achieve or sustain competitive advantage and meet customer expectations. If we lose certain key personnel, we may not be successful. We rely on the continued services of key personnel involved in management, finance, product development, sales, manufacturing and distribution, and, in particular, upon the efforts and abilities of our executive management team. The loss of service of any of the members of our executive management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A loss of our CEO could result in the acceleration of the debt under our credit facility. We do have key personnel life insurance covering two key executives, but this may not ensure complete avoidance of loss in that circumstance. 18 Covenants and other provisions in our credit facility could hinder our ability to operate. Our failure to comply with covenants in our credit facility could result in the acceleration of the debt extended under such facility, limit our liquidity and trigger other rights. Our credit agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association contains a number of financial and other covenants, including provisions that require us to meet certain financial tests and that may limit or restrict our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness; · pay dividends to stockholders or purchase stock; · make investments or acquisitions in excess of $1,000 ($5,000 in aggregate); · dispose of assets; · make needed capital expenditures; · create liens on our assets; · merge or consolidate; or · increase certain salaries and bonuses. These covenants may hinder our ability to operate and could reduce our profitability. Other covenants restrict the amount of loss we may incur in any one month and in any consecutive three month period, require us to maintain an average availability, and require us to meet, as of fiscal year end, a minimum debt service coverage ratio. A breach of any of these covenants or requirements could result in a default under our credit agreement. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Financial Covenants. In addition, our credit agreement permits the lender to modify or reduce the borrowing base at its sole (but reasonable) discretion and to accelerate our debt if an over-advance results. Any modification to reduce our borrowing base or termination of our credit agreement would negatively impact our overall liquidity and may require us to take other actions to preserve any remaining liquidity. Although we anticipate that we will be able to meet the covenants in our credit agreement, there can be no assurance that we will do so, as there are a number of external factors that affect our operations, such as commodity prices, over which we have little or no control. If we default on any of our covenants, and if such default is not cured or waived, Wells Fargo could, among other remedies, terminate its commitment to lend and/or accelerate any outstanding debt and declare that such debt is immediately due and payable. If Wells Fargo were to terminate our credit, or materially change our borrowing base, we may not have sufficient funds available for us to operate. If it were to accelerate our debt, we might be unable to repay such debt immediately and might not be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance. Even if new financing were available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. Acceleration could result in foreclosure on assets that we have pledged to Wells Fargo. Further, certain of our other secured debt instruments contain cross default provisions, such that an event of default under our credit agreement with Wells Fargo may result in an event of default under these other debt instruments. If our lenders were to terminate our credit or accelerate our debt, or if Wells Fargo were to materially change our borrowing base, we might not have sufficient funds to operate. We may require significant cash flow to make needed capital expenditures, and our ability to make such expenditures could be limited. Over the course of the next few years we may need to make substantial capital expenditures. See – Item 1. Business - Regulation and Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Cash Flow Information – Investing Cash Flows. During fiscal year 2011 for example, we spent the majority of the required capital on the process water cooling system project elsewhere described. Wells Fargo granted an exemption from capital expenditure limitations under our credit facility for this project. Although Wells Fargo increased the amount of capital expenditures we may incur without bank consent, we are still limited by the size of the line and must continue to meet our other covenants. We may require additional long-term financing to meet certain of our capital expenditure requirements, but have not determined the amount, type or source of such financing. Our credit facility generally prohibits new debt from other lenders and limits the amount of capital expenditures which we can make annually. We would require the consent of Wells Fargo Bank to incur new debt and also may require the consent of Wells Fargo Bank to make other such needed expenditures. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to obtain such consent or arrange such financing on favorable terms, if at all. 19 We are subject to extensive regulation, and compliance with existing or future laws and regulations, including those relating to greenhouse gases and climate change, may require us to incur substantial expenditures or require us to make product recalls. We are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations intended to protect public health and the environment. Our operations are also subject to regulation by various federal agencies, including the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Trade Bureau, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Food and Drug Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency, and by various state and local authorities. Such regulations cover virtually every aspect of our operations, including production facilities, marketing, pricing, labeling, packaging, advertising, water usage, waste water discharge, disposal of hazardous wastes and emissions and other matters. Violations of any of these laws and regulations may result in administrative, civil or criminal penalties being levied against us, revocation or modification of permits, performance of environmental investigatory or remedial activities, voluntary or involuntary product recalls, or a cease and desist order against operations that are not in compliance. These laws and regulations may change in the future and we may incur material costs in our efforts to comply with current or future laws and regulations or to effect any product recalls. These matters may have a material adverse effect on our business. See Item 1. Business – Regulation, where we discuss certain environmental proceedings in which governmental agencies sought fines from us and required significant capital expenditures. Our facility and our joint venture's facility currently produce fuel grade alcohol as a by-product and emit carbon dioxide into the atmosphere as a by-product of the fermentation process. In 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court classified carbon dioxide as an air pollutant under the Clean Air Act in a case seeking to require the EPA to regulate carbon dioxide in vehicle emissions. On February 3, 2010, the EPA released its final regulations on the Renewable Fuel Standard program (RFS2). We believe these final regulations grandfather both facilities at their current operating capacity for fuel grade alcohol, but plant expansion would need to meet a 20% threshold reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from a 2005 baseline measurement to produce fuel grade alcohol eligible for the RFS2 mandate. Additionally, legislation is pending in Congress on a comprehensive carbon dioxide regulatory scheme, such as a carbon tax or cap-and-trade system. We may be required to install carbon dioxide mitigation equipment or take other steps unknown to us at this time in order to comply with other future laws or regulations. Compliance with future laws or regulations relating to emission of carbon dioxide could be costly and may require additional working capital, which may not be available, preventing us and our joint venture from operating our plants as originally designed, which may have a material adverse impact on our respective operations, cash flows and financial position. We face risk related to changes in the global economic environment. Our business may be impacted by the weak US and global economic conditions, which are increasingly volatile. General business and economic conditions that could affect us include short-term and long-term interest rates, unemployment, inflation, fluctuations in debt markets and the strength of the US economy and the local economies in which we operate. While currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in the financial markets. There could be a number of other effects from these economic developments on our business, including reduced consumer demand for products; insolvency of our customers, resulting in increased provisions for credit losses; decreased customer demand, including order delays or cancellations and counterparty failures negatively impacting our operations. 20 RISKS SPECIFIC TO OUR DISTILLERY PRODUCTS SEGMENT Volatile corn prices affect our profitability. A portion of our operating income is dependent on the spreads between alcohol and corn prices. We intend to protect the margins on our alcohol contracts, but may not always be able to do so. If we are not successful in protecting our margins through hedging activities, volatility in corn prices could affect our profitability. We expect corn pricing to remain volatile in the near term due to a number of factors impacting global demand and supply of this commodity. These fluctuating prices create challenges since our customers are interested in stable prices for the distillery products they purchase from us. The relationship between the price we pay for corn and the sales prices of our distillery co-products can fluctuate significantly and affect our results of operations. Dried grain, or distillers feed, and fuel grade alcohol are the principal co-products of our alcohol production process and can contribute in varying degrees to the profitability of our distillery products segment. We sell fuel grade alcohol, the prices for which typically, but not always, have tracked price fluctuations in gasoline prices. Distillers feed is sold for prices which historically have tracked the price of corn. In fiscal 2009 and 2008, however, the value of these co-products lagged behind the significant and rapid increase in corn prices. In regard to distillers feed, we believe that, in part, this resulted from decreased demand in the E.U. due to the E.U.’s non-approval of several varieties of genetically modified corn commonly grown in the U.S. Further, certain of our co-products compete with similar products made from other plant feedstocks whose cost may not have risen in unison with corn prices. As a result, the profitability of these products to us could be affected. Although we have reduced our production and sales of fuel grade alcohol, we continue to have some exposure to fuel grade alcohol market price fluctuations through our ICP joint venture. Because of the continued erosion of the fuel alcohol markets, in the fiscal year 2009 we determined to substantially reduce our production of fuel alcohol and temporarily ceased production at our former Pekin facility. Subsequently, after exploring our strategic options with respect to this facility, we contributed the facility to ICP and sold a 50% interest in ICP to ICP Holdings. We purchase food grade alcohol products from ICP and market and sell such products, and SEACOR Energy, Inc. has a similar arrangement with respect to the fuel grade alcohol produced by ICP. Although we have reduced our exposure to the volatility of the fuel grade alcohol business through this arrangement, because we share in the profits and losses of ICP, we retain some exposure to such volatility. RISKS SPECIFIC TO OUR INGREDIENT SOLUTIONS SEGMENT Our focus on higher margin specialty ingredients makes us more reliant on fewer, more profitable customer relationships. Our business strategy for our ingredient solutions segment includes focusing our efforts on the sale of specialty proteins and starches to targeted domestic consumer packaged goods customers. Our food ingredients receiving major focus, and which are primarily used in foods that are developed to address consumers’ desire for healthier and more convenient products, consist of dietary fiber, wheat protein isolates and concentrates, and textured wheat proteins The bulk of our applications technology and research and development efforts are dedicated to providing customers with specialty ingredient solutions that deliver nutritional benefits, as well as desired functional and sensory qualities to their products. Our business could be adversely affected if our customers were to determine to reduce their new product development (“NPD”) activities or ceased using our unique dietary fibers, starches and proteins in their NPD efforts. In addition, our sales growth opportunities could be at risk in these areas if consumers abandon or significantly limit their interest in healthier foods, limit their interest in convenience foods, and/or adopt a widespread aversion to foods containing wheat gluten. 21 The contracted production of our Wheatex® product ends in August 2012, and our continued production and sales of this product depend on extending the contract or finding an economical production alternative. When we sold our Pet Products business and the associated Kansas City, Kansas plant, we leased a portion of the plant from the purchaser and contracted with the purchaser to manufacture Wheatex® using certain production equipment which we retained. The term of these arrangements expire in August 2012. Our continued profitable commercialization of this product will require us to either extend our arrangement with the purchaser on terms comparable to those we have at present, identify an alternative source of production or produce the product in house. There can be no assurance that we will be able to extend our arrangement on comparable terms or that we will be able to identify an alternative source of production. Moving the equipment to another location may require significant expenditures, and our ability to make the necessary expenditures to move the equipment and produce this product in house may be limited by provisions in our credit facility. See “We may require significant cash flow to make needed capital expenditures, and our ability to make such expenditures could be limited." RISKS SPECIFIC TO OUR OTHER SEGMENT Our plant-based biopolymers and wood-based composite resins may not prove to be profitable or commercially scalable. Plant-based biopolymers and wood-based composite resins continue to represent an emerging area of our business. While commercialization of these products has begun, they continue to undergo further research and development as we explore additional enhancements to expand their functionality and use capabilities. To date, they have not contributed significant revenues or profit. OTHER RISKS Common stockholders have limited rights under our Articles of Incorporation. Under our Articles of Incorporation, holders of our Preferred Stock are entitled to elect five of our nine directors and only holders of our Preferred Stock are entitled to vote with respect to a merger, dissolution, lease, exchange or sale of substantially all of the Company’s assets, or on an amendment to the Articles of Incorporation, unless such action would increase or decrease the authorized shares or par value of the Common or Preferred Stock, or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Common or Preferred Stock so as to affect the holders of Common Stock adversely. Generally, the Common Stock and Preferred Stock vote as separate classes on all other matters requiring stockholder approval. A majority of the outstanding shares of our Preferred Stock is held by the MGP Ingredients Voting Trust, whose trustees are Karen Seaberg, Richard B. Cray and Laidacker M. Seaberg. The trading volume in our common stock fluctuates, and depending on market conditions, the sale of a substantial number of shares in the public market could depress the price of our stock and make it difficult for stockholders to sell their shares. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market. Our public float at June 30, 2011 (including non-vested restricted stock awards held by non-affiliates) was approximately 11,965,009 shares, as approximately 5,940,758 shares are held by affiliates. Over the twelve months ended June 30, 2011, our daily trading volume as reported to us by NASDAQ has fluctuated from 8,236 to 323,034 shares (excluding block trades). When trading volumes are relatively light, significant price changes can occur even when a relatively small number of shares are being traded and an investor’s ability to quickly sell quantities of stock may be affected. 22 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 