ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties. The following identifies those which we consider to be most important: RISKS THAT AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AS A WHOLE An interruption of operations at either the Atchison or Indiana facility, or a disruption of transportation services, could negatively affect our business.The bulk of our ingredient solutions production takes place at our facility in Atchison, while food grade alcohol is produced both at our Atchison plant and our Indiana plant. An interruption in or loss of operations at either of our facilities could reduce or postpone production of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. To the extent that our value-added products rely on unique or proprietary processes or techniques, replacing lost production by purchasing from outside suppliers becomes more difficult.We hold a substantial amount of inventory of aged whiskeys and bourbons at our Indiana plant. If there were a catastrophic event at our Indiana plant, our business could be adversely affected. The loss of a significant amount of aged inventory - through fire, natural disaster, or otherwise - could result in a significant reduction in supply of the affected product or products and could result in customer claims against us. A disruption in transportation services could result in difficulties supplying materials to our facilities and impact our ability to deliver products to our customers in a timely manner. 12During January 2014, the Company experienced a small fire at our Indiana plant. The fire damaged equipment in the Company's feed dryer house, and caused a temporary loss of production in January, but did not impact our or customer owned warehoused inventory. The Indiana plant is back in operation and by the end of February the Company was at pre-fire production capacity. The Company is currently working with its insurance carrier to determine the coverage for equipment damage and business interruption losses. See Note 17: Subsequent Events. Our profitability is affected by the energy costs, ethanol and grain and flour that we use in our business, the availability and cost of which are subject to weather and other factors beyond our control. Our corn purchasing program, which allows to us purchase corn for delivery up to 12 months in the future may not be an effective strategy in mitigating our exposure to commodity price fluctuations. We may not be able to recoup cost increases in our selling prices changes in prices of commodities and natural gas. Grain and flour costs are a significant portion of our costs of goods sold. Historically, the cost of such raw materials has been subject to substantial fluctuations, depending upon a number of factors which affect commodity prices in general and over which we have no control. These include crop conditions, weather, disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition for acquisition of inputs such as agricultural commodities, purchases by foreign governments, and changes in demand resulting from population growth and customer preferences. The price of natural gas, also fluctuates, based on anticipated changes in supply and demand, weather and the prices of alternative fuels. Fluctuations in the price of commodities and natural gas can be sudden and volatile at times and have had, from time to time, significant adverse effects on the results of our operations. Higher energy costs could result in higher transportation costs and other operating costs.With our grain supply agreements, we may purchase corn for delivery up to twelve months into the future, and because of this we have eliminated futures and options contracts. We intend to contract for the future delivery of flour only to protect margins on expected ingredients sales. On the portion of volume not hedged, Management will attempt to recover higher commodity costs through higher sales prices, but market considerations may not always permit this. Even where prices can be adjusted, there would likely be a lag between when we experience higher commodity or natural gas costs and when we might be able to increase prices. To the extent we are unable to timely pass increases in the cost of raw materials to our customers under sales contracts, we may be adversely impacted by market fluctuations in the cost of grain, natural gas and ethanol. We have moved to single-source supplies for our wheat flour and corn. We have signed long-term supply agreements with ConAgra and Bunge for our wheat flour and corn supply, respectively. If either of these companies encounters an operational or financial issue, it could lead to an interruption in supply to us and/or higher prices than those we have negotiated or than are available in the market at the time. We may not succeed in our strategies for acquisitions and dispositions. From time to time, we may acquire additional assets or businesses. Our goal is to invest in growth opportunities that increase long-term shareholder value by advancing our strategic position and increase our long-term cash flows; however, we cannot assure that we will be able to find and purchase assets or businesses at acceptable prices and terms.There is no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow from acquisitions to service the debt that we may incur to finance such acquisitions and subsequent capital expenditures. Acquisitions may involve operating risks such as:–the difficulty of assimilating and integrating the acquired operations into our current business;–the difficulty of incorporating the acquired employees into our corporate culture and the possible loss of key employees;–the diversion or dilution of management resources or focus;–the possibility that effective internal controls are not established and maintained at the acquired company;–the risks of entering new product markets with which we have limited experience;–the possibility that the debt and liabilities that we incurred and assumed will prove to be more burdensome that we anticipated; and–the possibility that the acquired operations do not perform as expected or do not increase our profits.13We also evaluate from time-to-time the potential disposition of assets or businesses that may no longer meet our growth, return and/or strategic objectives. In selling assets or businesses, we may not get a price or terms as favorable as we anticipated. We could also encounter difficulty in finding buyers on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay our accomplishment of strategic objectives. Expected costs savings from reduced overhead related to the sold assets may not materialize, and the overhead reductions could temporarily disrupt our other business operations. Any of these outcomes could hurt our performance.Disruption in the supply or shortage of oak barrels could negatively affect our business. New oak barrels are available from only a few sources and the industry is currently experiencing a shortage of oak barrels compared to the rapidly increasing demand for products aged in these barrels. We are exploring alternatives to alleviate the effect of this shortage of oak barrels. However, the shortage could limit our ability to fulfill our existing customer arrangements and our ability to lay out stock for our own use in future years. The effect of our inability to stock for our own use could limit future growth. If ICP incurs losses, it could result in closure of its Pekin plant. ICP’s access to capital may limit needed financing. This could result in reduced sales and impairment losses in the future for us.ICP’s Limited Liability Company Agreement gives us and our joint venture partner, ICP Holdings, a subsidiary of SEACOR, certain rights to shut down the Pekin plant if ICP operates at an EBITDA loss of $500 in any quarter. Such rights are conditional in certain instances but are absolute if losses aggregate $1,500 over any three consecutive quarters or if ICP’s net working capital is less than $2,500. Losses of such nature are also events of default under ICP’s term loan and revolving credit agreements with its lender, an affiliate of SEACOR, which, upon any requisite notice and/or lapse of time, would entitle the lender to impose a default rate of interest, foreclose on ICP’s assets and, in the case of the working capital deficiency or successive losses, enforce the closure provisions referred to above. If future losses of the requisite magnitudes occur in any quarter or over three consecutive quarters, we, ICP Holdings or ICP’s lender may elect to exercise its rights under the applicable agreement, ICP experienced an EBITDA loss in excess of $500 for the quarter ended March 31, 2013, which prompted the Company to provide notice to shutdown the plant, but ICP experienced positive EBITDA for the remainder of fiscal 2013. The Company's current plan is to source more product from ICP. The losses incurred during the quarter ended March 31, 2013 and the Company's election to provide notice to shut down the plant did not cause the Company to determine that its investment in ICP was not fully recoverable at March 31, 2013. The Company has determined that there were no triggering events subsequent to March 31, 2013 that required an impairment analysis. The Company has a minority ownership position in ICP, and that could limit our ability to influence its operations and profitability. Since February 1, 2012 when ICP Holdings increased its ownership through the exercise of an option to purchase from us an additional 20% ownership interest, we have a minority ownership interest of 30%, and have only two representatives on the Advisory Board of ICP. The reduced ownership and advisory role mean that our ability to influence operating decisions and affect profitability of the joint venture is more limited. As a consequence, we are more dependent on the management of ICP and the other members of the Advisory Board to operate the joint venture profitably and take our interests into account. Our high quality marketing agreement with ICP has expired.Under the Marketing Agreement, ICP manufactured and supplied high quality products for us and we purchased, marketed and sold such products for a marketing fee. Effective January 1, 2013, the Marketing Agreement expired. We sourced significantly less product from ICP in fiscal 2013 than we did in fiscal 2012. We plan to increase sourced product from ICP in 2014; however ICP is under no obligation to sell us these products, which could lead to reduced sales to us and to an impairment in the value of our investment in ICP. We have incurred impairment and restructuring losses in the past and may suffer such losses in the future.We review long-lived assets for impairment at year end or if events or circumstances indicate that usage may be limited and carrying values may not be recoverable. Should events indicate the assets cannot be used as planned, the realization from alternative uses or disposal is compared to their carrying value. If an impairment loss is measured, this estimate is recognized. Considerable judgment is used in these measurements, and a change in the assumptions could result in a different 14determination of impairment loss and/or the amount of any impairment. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies – Impairment of Long-Lived Assets.The markets for our products are very competitive, and our results could be adversely affected if we do not compete effectively. The markets for products in which we participate are very competitive. Our principal competitors in these markets have substantial financial, marketing, and other resources, and several are much larger enterprises than us.We are dependent on being able to generate net sales and other operating income in excess of cost of products sold in order to obtain margins, profits, and cash flows to meet or exceed its targeted financial performance measures. Competition is based on such factors as product innovation, product characteristics, product quality, pricing, color and name. Pricing of our products is partly dependent upon industry processing capacity, which is impacted by competitor actions to bring on-line idled capacity or to build new production capacity. If market conditions make our specialty ingredients too expensive for use in consumer goods, our revenues could be affected. If our large competitors were to decrease their pricing, we could choose to do the same, which could adversely affect our margins and profitability. If we did not do the same, our revenues could be adversely affected due to the potential loss of sales or market share. Our revenue growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in developing new ingredients products for our customers or through new product introductions by our competitors. In addition, more stringent new customer demands may require us to make internal investments to achieve or sustain competitive advantage and meet customer expectations.Our unionized workforce could cause interruptions in the Company’s provision of services.As of December 31, 2013, approximately 145 of our 268 employees were members of a union. Although our relations with our two relevant unions are stable and our labor contracts do not expire until August 2014 and December 2017, there is no assurance that we will not experience work disruptions or stoppages in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and adversely affect our relationships with our customers.If we lose certain key personnel, we may not be successful. If we cannot replace our CEO and certain other key members of management, we may not be able to fully implement our business strategies. We rely on the continued services of key personnel involved in management, finance, product development, sales, manufacturing and distribution, and, in particular, upon the efforts and abilities of our executive management team. The loss of service of any of the members of our executive management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On December 3, 2013 the Company entered into a Settlement and Mutual Release Agreement, pursuant to which the Company terminated the employment of its Chief Executive Officer and President, Timothy W. Newkirk. We have hired a third party to assist us in the search for our permanent Chief Executive Officer. The uncertainty inherent to the search process may limit our strategic moves. It could also negatively impact our stock price. With the new CEO, the Company could experience additional turnover in management as some managers could leave, by choice or otherwise. Subsequent to the termination of our CEO, certain other key members of management also left the Company, including Scott B. Phillips (Vice President, Supply Chain Operations) and Donald G. Coffey, Ph.D (Vice President, Research, Development and Innovation). If we cannot attract and retain key management personnel, or if our search for qualified personnel is prolonged, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, it could be difficult, time consuming and expensive to replace any key management member or other critical personnel, and no guarantee exists that we will be able to recruit suitable replacements or assimilate new key management personnel into our organization to achieve our operating objectives.We do have key personnel life insurance covering one key executive, but this may not ensure complete avoidance of loss in that circumstance.15Covenants and other provisions in our credit facility could hinder our ability to operate. Our failure to comply with covenants in our credit facility could result in the acceleration of the debt extended under such facility, limit our liquidity and trigger other rights. Our credit agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association contains a number of financial and other covenants, including provisions that require us, in certain circumstances, to meet certain financial tests. These covenants may limit or restrict our ability to: •incur additional indebtedness;•pay cash dividends or make distributions;•dispose of assets;•create liens on our assets;•pledge the fixed and real property assets of LDI’s Distillery Business; or•merge or consolidate.These covenants could hinder our ability to operate and could reduce our profitability. Other covenants require excess availability of at least $4,000 at all times prior to the later of (a) November 2, 2013 and (b) the last day of the first twelve month period for which Borrowers have maintained a Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio of at least 1.10:1.00. For all periods in which the excess availability is less than $9,625, we are required to have a Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio, measured on a month end trailing basis, of at least 1.10:1.00 (a) for each month-end until October 31, 2013, the trailing months from November 1, 2012 through such date, and (b) as of each month-end commencing November 30, 2013 using a trailing twelve-month measure. A breach of any of these covenants or requirements could result in a default under our credit agreement. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Financial Covenants.In addition, our credit agreement permits the lender to modify borrowing base and advance rates, the effect of which may limit the amount of loans that we may have outstanding at any given time. The lender may also terminate or accelerate our obligations under the credit agreement upon the occurrence of various events in addition to payment defaults and other breaches, including such matters as a change of control of the Company, defaults under other material contracts with third parties, and ERISA violations. Any modification to reduce our borrowing base or termination of our credit agreement would negatively impact our overall liquidity and may require us to take other actions to preserve any remaining liquidity. Although we anticipate that we will be able to meet the covenants in our credit agreement, there can be no assurance that we will do so, as there are a number of external factors that affect our operations, such as commodity prices, over which we have little or no control. If we default on any of our covenants, and if such default is not cured or waived, Wells Fargo could, among other remedies, terminate its commitment to lend and/or accelerate any outstanding debt and declare that such debt is immediately due and payable. If Wells Fargo were to terminate our credit, or materially change our borrowing base, we may not have sufficient funds available for us to operate. If Wells Fargo were to accelerate our debt, we might be unable to repay such debt immediately and might not be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance. Even if new financing were available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. Acceleration could result in foreclosure on assets that we have pledged to Wells Fargo. Further, certain of our other secured debt instruments contain cross default provisions, such that an event of default under our credit agreement with Wells Fargo may result in an event of default under these other debt instruments. If our lenders were to terminate our credit or accelerate our debt, or if Wells Fargo were to materially change our borrowing base, we might not have sufficient funds to operate.Our level of indebtedness could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. •We have $18,000 borrowed under our Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2013, and we incurred $1,118 of interest expense in 2013. Should the amount of our borrowings increase then we would have to use a greater portion of our cash flows from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds that would otherwise be available to us for our operations, capital expenditures, future business opportunities and dividends; and•Our indebtedness under our Credit Agreement is subject to interest rate increases because we pay interest at the base rate or LIBOR rate plus a fixed spread. We would be adversely affected by any increases in prevailing interest rates.16We are subject to extensive regulation and taxation, and compliance with existing or future laws and regulations, including those relating to greenhouse gases and climate change, may require us to incur substantial expenditures or require us to make product recalls. We are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to protect public health and the environment. Our operations are also subject to regulation by various federal agencies, including TTB, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Food and Drug Administration, and the USEPA, and by various state and local authorities. Such regulations cover virtually every aspect of our operations, including production facilities, marketing, pricing, labeling, packaging, advertising, water usage, waste water discharge, disposal of hazardous wastes and emissions and other matters. Violations of any of these laws and regulations may result in administrative, civil or criminal penalties being levied against us, revocation or modification of permits, performance of environmental investigatory or remedial activities, voluntary or involuntary product recalls, or a cease and desist order against operations that are not in compliance. These laws and regulations may change in the future and we may incur material costs in our efforts to comply with current or future laws and regulations or to effect any product recalls. These matters may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Atchison facility and our joint venture's facility currently produce fuel grade alcohol as a by-product and emit carbon dioxide into the atmosphere as a by-product of the fermentation process. In 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court classified carbon dioxide as an air pollutant under the Clean Air Act in a case seeking to require the USEPA to regulate carbon dioxide in vehicle emissions. On February 3, 2010, the USEPA released its final regulations on the Renewable Fuel Standard program (RFS2). We believe these final regulations grandfather both facilities at their current operating capacity for fuel grade alcohol, but plant expansion would need to meet a 20% threshold reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from a 2005 baseline measurement to produce fuel grade alcohol eligible for the RFS2 mandate. Additionally, legislation is pending in Congress on a comprehensive carbon dioxide regulatory scheme, such as a carbon tax or cap-and-trade system. We may be required to install carbon dioxide mitigation equipment or take other steps unknown to us at this time in order to comply with other future laws or regulations. Compliance with future laws or regulations relating to emission of carbon dioxide could be costly and may require additional capital, which may not be available, preventing us and our joint venture from operating our plants as originally designed, which may have a material adverse impact on our respective operations, cash flows and financial position.We import some of the ingredients used in our production. The import of the ingredients is subject to federal regulation. Difficulty in complying with existing federal rules or any changes in such federal rules could impact how we source our ingredients. This, in turn, could have an impact on our profitability. Also, the distribution of beverage alcohol products is subject to extensive taxation in the United States and internationally (and, in the United States, at both at the federal and state government levels), and beverage alcohol products themselves are the subject of national import and excise duties in most countries around the world. This taxation has a minor effect on us; however, it has larger effects on our beverage alcohol customers, and accordingly, an increase in taxation or in import or excise duties could significantly harm our sales revenues and margins, both through the reduction of overall consumption and by encouraging consumers to switch to lower-taxed categories of beverage alcohol.We face risk related to changes in the global economic environment. Our business may be impacted by the weak U.S. and global economic conditions, which are increasingly volatile. General business and economic conditions that could affect us include short-term and long-term interest rates, unemployment, inflation, fluctuations in debt markets and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which we operate. While currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations and acquisitions, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in the financial markets. There could be a number of other effects from these economic developments on our business, including reduced consumer demand for products; insolvency of our customers, resulting in increased provisions for credit losses; decreased customer demand, including order delays or cancellations and counterparty failures negatively impacting our operations. 17A failure of our information systems could impact our ability to operate. Although the Company has an offsite back-up system and disaster recovery plans, any failure of our information systems could adversely impact the Company’s ability to operate. Routine maintenance or development of new information systems may result in systems failures, which may adversely affect business operations. Information systems could be penetrated by outside parties to extract information, corrupt information or disrupt business processes. This can lead to outside parties having access to privileged data or strategic information of the Company, its employees or customers. Any breach of our data security systems or failure of our information systems may have a material adverse impact on our business operations and financial results.Unsuccessful research and product launches could affect our profitability.Research activities and products launch activities are inherently uncertain. The failure to launch a new product successfully can give rise to inventory write-offs and other costs and can affect consumer perception of an existing brand. Any significant changes in consumer preferences and failure to anticipate and react to such changes could result in reduced demand for our products. Unsuccessful research and product launches could affect our profitability.Donald G. Coffey, Ph.D, Vice President, Research, Development and Innovation, left the Company on January 3, 2014. The impact of Mr. Coffey's departure is unclear at this time. While we believe there will be no negative consequence to research or product innovation, we may not know the effect until after it has occurred. It is possible his departure will negatively affect future growth and profitability. RISKS SPECIFIC TO OUR DISTILLERY PRODUCTS SEGMENTVolatile grain prices affect our profitability. A portion of our operating income is dependent on the spreads between alcohol and corn prices. Strong price competition in the industrial alcohol market at times can restrict profitability. We intend to protect the margins on our alcohol contracts, but may not always be able to do so completely. If we are not successful in protecting our margins volatility in corn prices could affect our profitability. These fluctuating prices create challenges since our customers are interested in stable prices for the distillery products they purchase from us. The relationship between the price we pay for corn and the sales prices of our distillery co-products can fluctuate significantly and affect our results of operations.Dried grain, or distillers feed, and fuel grade alcohol are the principal co-products of our alcohol production process and can contribute in varying degrees to the profitability of our distillery products segment. We sell fuel grade alcohol, the prices for which typically, but not always, have tracked price fluctuations in gasoline prices. Distillers feed is sold for prices which historically have tracked the price of corn, but, certain of our co-products compete with similar products made from other plant feedstocks whose cost may not have risen in unison with corn prices. As a result, the profitability of these products to us could be affected.Determining the quantity of maturing stock of our aged distillate could affect our future profitability.There is an inherent risk in determining the quantity of maturing stock of aged distillate to lay down in a given year for future consumption. This could lead to an inability to supply future demand or lead to a future surplus of inventory and consequent write down in the value of maturing stocks of aged distillate. As a result, profitability of the distillery products segment could be affected. Water scarcity or quality could negatively impact our production costs and capacity.Water is the main ingredient in substantially all of our distillery products. It is also a limited resource, facing unprecedented challenges from climate change, increasing pollution, and poor management. As demand for water continues, water becomes more scarce and the quality of available water deteriorates, we may be affected by increasing production costs or capacity constraints, which could adversely affect our results of operations and profitability.18We may be subject to litigation directed at the beverage alcohol industry and other litigation.Companies in the beverage alcohol industry are, from time to time, exposed to class action or other litigation relating to alcohol advertising, product liability, alcohol abuse problems or health consequences from the misuse of alcohol. Such litigation may result in damages, penalties or fines as well as reputational damage, which could adversely affect us.Adverse public opinion about alcohol could reduce demand for our products.In recent years, there has been increased social and political attention directed at the beverage alcohol industry. The recent attention has focused largely on public health concerns related to alcohol abuse, including drunk driving, underage drinking, and the negative health impacts of the abuse and misuse of beverage alcohol.Anti-alcohol groups have, in the past, advocated successfully for more stringent labeling requirements, higher taxes and other regulations designed to discourage alcohol consumption. More restrictive regulations, negative publicity regarding alcohol consumption and/or changes in consumer perceptions of the relative healthfulness or safety of beverage alcohol could decrease sales and consumption of alcohol and thus the demand for our products. This could, in turn, significantly decrease both our revenues and our revenue growth, causing a decline in our results of operations.RISKS SPECIFIC TO OUR INGREDIENT SOLUTIONS SEGMENT Our focus on higher margin specialty ingredients may make us more reliant on fewer, more profitable customer relationships. Our business strategy for our ingredient solutions segment includes focusing our efforts on the sale of specialty proteins and starches to targeted domestic consumer packaged goods customers. Our major focus is directed at food ingredients, which are primarily used in foods that are developed to address consumers’ desire for healthier and more convenient products; these consist of dietary fiber, wheat protein isolates and concentrates, and textured wheat proteins The bulk of our applications technology and research and development efforts are dedicated to providing customers with specialty ingredient solutions that deliver nutritional benefits, as well as desired functional and sensory qualities to their products. Our business could be adversely affected if our customers were to determine to reduce their new product development (“NPD”) activities or cease using our unique dietary fibers, starches and proteins in their NPD efforts. In addition, our sales growth opportunities could be at risk in these areas if consumers abandon or significantly limit their interest in healthier foods, limit their interest in convenience foods, and/or adopt a widespread aversion to foods containing wheat gluten.Adverse public opinion about any of our specialty ingredients could reduce demand for our products.Consumer preferences with respect to our specialty ingredients might change. In fact, in recent years, we have noticed shifting consumer preferences with respect to gluten and increased media attention directed at gluten intolerance. Shifting consumer preferences could decrease demand for our specialty ingredients. This could, in turn, significantly decrease our revenues and revenue growth.New solutions competing with our Fibersym® resistant starch could lead to decreasing margins and lower profitability. Our patent rights to Fibersym® will expire in 2017. We are already facing new solutions competing with our Fibersym® resistant starch. This could lead to diminished returns. When our patent rights expire in 2017, our margins could fall even further. OTHER RISKSCommon stockholders have limited rights under our Articles of Incorporation. Under our Articles of Incorporation, holders of our Preferred Stock are entitled to elect five of our nine directors and only holders of our Preferred Stock are entitled to vote with respect to a merger, dissolution, lease, exchange or sale of substantially all of the Company’s assets, or on an amendment to the Articles of Incorporation, unless such action would increase or decrease the authorized shares or par value of the Common or Preferred Stock, or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Common or Preferred Stock so as to affect the holders of Common Stock adversely. Generally, the Common Stock and Preferred Stock vote as separate classes on all other matters requiring stockholder approval. 19The majority of the outstanding shares of our Preferred Stock is beneficially owned by one individual, whom is entitled to vote for five directors under the limited rights of the common stockholders under our Articles of Incorporation.The trading volume in our common stock fluctuates, and depending on market conditions, the sale of a substantial number of shares in the public market could depress the price of our stock and make it difficult for stockholders to sell their shares.Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market. Our public float at December 31, 2013 (including non-vested restricted stock awards held by non-affiliates) was approximately 11,620,303 shares, as approximately 6,130,118 shares are held by affiliates. Over the year ended December 31, 2013, our daily trading volume as reported to us by NASDAQ has fluctuated from 700 to 170,800 shares (excluding block trades). When trading volumes are relatively light, significant price changes can occur even when a relatively small number of shares are being traded and an investor’s ability to quickly sell quantities of stock may be affected.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None.20