Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Company’s common stock involves significant risks inherent to the Company’s business. The risks and uncertainties that management believes affect or could affect the Company are described below. You should carefully read and consider these risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report, before you decide to invest in our common stock. We may incur losses if we are unable to successfully manage interest rate risk. Our profitability will depend in substantial part upon the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. These rates are normally in line with our competition and might vary based on the Asset/Liability Management Committee’s vision of the Company’s needs. Changes in interest rates will affect our operating performance and financial condition in diverse ways including the pricing of securities, loans and deposits, and the volume of loan originations in our mortgage banking business. We attempt to minimize our exposure to interest rate risk, but we will be unable to eliminate it. Our net interest spread will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. We may be adversely affected by economic conditions in our market area. Our current market areas are the South Hampton Roads portion of Virginia, which includes the cities of Norfolk, Chesapeake, Virginia Beach and Portsmouth and the Northeastern portion of North Carolina, which includes the Outer Banks. In the event of an economic downturn in these markets, the lack of geographic diversification could adversely affect the banking business and, consequently, our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the economy may influence the growth rate of our loans and deposits, the quality of the loan portfolio, loan and deposit pricing and the performance of our mortgage banking and title insurance subsidiaries. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would impact these local economic conditions and the demand for banking products and services generally, which could negatively affect our financial condition and performance. Although we might not have significant credit exposure to all the businesses in our areas, the downturn in any of these businesses could have a negative impact on local economic conditions and real estate collateral values generally, which could negatively affect our profitability. Our small to medium-sized business target market may have fewer financial resources to weather a downturn in the economy. We target our commercial development and marketing strategy primarily to serve the banking and financial services needs of small and medium-sized businesses. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact this major economic sector in the markets we operate, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents Our concentration in loans secured by real estate may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in our market area. A major change in the real estate market, such as a deterioration in the value of this collateral, or in the local or national economy, could adversely affect our customer’s ability to pay these loans, which in turn could impact us. Risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by monitoring our extensions of credit carefully. We cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may occur in the future. We have a concentration of credit exposure in commercial real estate. At December 31, 2007, we had approximately $476.6 million in loans to borrowers in the commercial real estate industry, representing approximately 60.4% of our total loans outstanding as of that date. The real estate consists primarily of hotel/motel, condo conversion/construction and other commercial properties. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential loans. They are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans and depend on cash flows from the owner’s business or the property to service the debt. Cash flows may be affected significantly by general economic conditions, and a downturn in the local economy or in occupancy rates in the local economy where the property is located could increase the likelihood of default. Because our loan portfolio contains a number of commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in our percentage of non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our commercial real estate loans have grown 18.3% since December 31, 2006. The banking regulators are giving commercial real estate lending greater scrutiny, and may require banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures. If our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in our loan portfolio. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of our customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed our current estimates. Rapidly growing loan portfolios are, by their nature, unseasoned. As a result, estimating loan loss allowances is more difficult, and may be more susceptible to changes in estimates, and to losses exceeding estimates, than more seasoned portfolios. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot fully predict such losses or that our loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future. Excessive loan losses could have a material impact on our financial performance. Consistent with our loan loss reserve methodology, we expect to make additions to our loan loss reserve levels as a result of our loan growth, which may affect our short-term earnings. Federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in the amount of our provision or loans charged-off as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face vigorous competition from other commercial banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies and credit unions for deposits, loans and other financial services in our market area. A number of these banks and other financial institutions are significantly larger than we are and have substantially greater access to capital and other resources, as well as larger lending limits and branch systems, and offer a wider array of banking services. To a limited extent, we also compete with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable financing than we can. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us. As a result, these non-bank competitors have advantages over us in providing certain services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins and our market share and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability may suffer because of rapid and unpredictable changes in the highly regulated environment in which we operate. The banking industry is subject to extensive regulation by state and federal banking authorities. Many of the banking regulations we are governed by are intended to protect depositors, the public or the deposit insurance fund maintained by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, not stockholders. Banking regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and many other aspects of our business. These requirements may constrain our rate of growth and changes in regulations could adversely affect us. The burden imposed by these federal and state regulations may place banks in a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors. In addition, the cost of compliance with regulatory requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. See “Regulation and Supervision” for more information about applicable banking laws and regulations. 7 Table of Contents The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and NASDAQ that are applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, including the cost of completing our audit and maintaining our internal controls. As a result, we may experience greater compliance costs. We rely heavily on our management team and the unexpected loss of any of those personnel could adversely affect our operations; we depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We are a customer-focused and relationship-driven organization. Our success depends substantially on the banking relationships maintained with our customers and the skills and abilities of our executive and senior officers. We have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers and other senior officers. The existence of such agreements, however, does not necessarily assure that we will be able to continue to retain their services. The unexpected loss of any of our key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and possibly result in reduced revenues and earnings. We do maintain key man life insurance on key officers to provide the Company with some financial protection. Our business success is also dependent upon our ability to continue to attract, hire, motivate and retain skilled personnel to develop new customer relationships as well as new financial products and services. Many experienced banking professionals employed by our competitors are covered by agreements not to compete or solicit their existing customers if they were to leave their current employment. These agreements make the recruitment of these professionals more difficult. The market for these people is competitive, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, hiring, motivating or retaining them. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 