Item 1A. Risk Factors Like other bank holding companies, we are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of our control. A number of these risks have been identified below. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and the market price of our common stock could be harmed. These risks are not the only ones that we may face. Other risks of which we are not aware, including those which relate to the banking and financial services industry in general or to us in particular, or those which we do not currently believe are material, may harm our future business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects or the price of our common stock. Readers should consider carefully the following important factors, in conjunction with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, in evaluating us, our business and an investment in our securities. For other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement or projection contained in this report, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Forward-Looking Statements and Factors that Could Affect Future Results). There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which may affect our business relationships. In its report dated April 14, 2011, our independent registered public accounting firm stated that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is in substantial doubt primarily due to the Company’s 2010 financial results, the substantial uncertainty throughout the U.S. banking industry, the Written Agreement the Company and the Bank have entered into and the Bank’s “undercapitalized” status. Such concerns about our financial condition could impact our business relationships with our customers, clients and counterparties, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and the market price of our common stock. Our audited financial statements were prepared under the assumption that we will continue our operations on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the discharge of liabilities in the normal course of business for the foreseeable future. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. If we cannot continue as a going concern, our shareholders will lose some or all of their investment in the Company. The Bank may be subject to a federal conservatorship or receivership if it cannot comply with the Written Agreement, or if its condition continues to deteriorate. As noted above, the Written Agreement requires the Bank to create and implement a capital plan to maintain sufficient capital and to comply with various other requirements. In addition, the condition of the Bank’s loan portfolio may continue to deteriorate in the current economic environment and thus continue to deplete the Bank’s capital and other financial resources. Should the Bank fail to comply with the Written Agreement’s capital and other requirements, or suffer a continued deterioration in its financial condition, the Bank may be subject to being placed into a federal conservatorship or receivership by the Federal Reserve, with the FDIC appointed as conservator or receiver. If these events occur, the Company would probably suffer a complete loss of the value of its ownership interest in the Bank, and we subsequently may be exposed to significant claims by the FDIC and the Federal Reserve. We may incur significant credit losses, particularly in light of current market conditions. We take on credit risk by virtue of making loans and extending loan commitments and letters of credit. Our credit standards, procedures and policies may not prevent us from incurring substantial credit losses, particularly in light of market developments in recent years. Over the past three years, we have experienced deterioration in credit quality, particularly in certain real estate development loans, due, in part, to the impact resulting from the downturn in the prevailing economic, real estate and credit markets. This deterioration resulted in higher levels of non-performing assets, including other real estate owned and internally risk classified loans, thereby increasing our provision for loan losses and decreasing our operating income in 2008, 2009 and 2010. As of December 31, 2010, we had total non-performing assets of approximately $162.6 million, compared with approximately $89.0 million as of December 31, 2009 and approximately $52.0 million as of December 31, 2008. Our provision for loan losses was $52.5 million and $53.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which contributed to a net loss of $51.8 million and $25.8 million for these same periods. Given the current economic conditions and trends, as well as trends in asset quality, management believes we may continue to experience credit deterioration and higher levels of non-performing loans in the near-term, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects or the price of our common stock, and also may impact our ability to continue as a going concern. We incurred significant losses in 2010 and may continue do so in the future and we can make no assurances as to when we will be profitable. The Company reported a net loss for 2010 of approximately $51.8 million, primarily a result of a provision for loan losses of $52.5 million and the establishment of a valuation allowance of $23.6 million for net deferred tax assets. In light of the current economic environment, significant additional provisions for loan losses may be necessary to supplement the allowance for loan losses in the future. As a result, we may incur significant credit costs in 2011, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects or the price of our common stock, and also may impact our ability to continue as a going concern. 12 Table of Contents We have entered into a Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve and the SCC that places significant restrictions on our operations and requires us to dedicate significant resources to complying with the agreement. The cost of compliance, as well as any failure to comply, with the Written Agreement may have a material adverse effect on us. As the result of the Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve and the SCC, the Company and the Bank are required to address certain conditions and achieve certain financial ratios (see Item. 1. Business (Regulation and Supervision-Written Agreement)). Although the Company expects to fully address each of these matters, no assurances can be given as to when, or if, the actions of management will be successful in complying with the terms of the Written Agreement. In addition, efforts at compliance will require substantial resources and will divert management attention and capital away from other matters. If we are unable to comply with the terms of the Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve and SCC, then we could become subject to additional supervisory actions and orders, including cease and desist orders, prompt corrective action and/or other regulatory enforcement actions. If our regulators were to take such additional supervisory actions, then we could, among other things, become subject to significant restrictions on our ability to develop any new business, as well as restrictions on our existing business, and we could be required to raise additional capital, dispose of certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed period of time, or both. Failure to implement the measures in the time frames provided, or at all, could result in additional orders or penalties from the Federal Reserve and the SCC, which could include further restrictions on the Company’s business, assessment of civil money penalties on the Company, as well as its directors, officers and other affiliated parties, termination of deposit insurance, removal of one or more officers and/or directors and the liquidation or other closure of the Company. The terms of any such supervisory action or order and the consequences associated with any failure to comply therewith could have a material negative effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects or the price of our common stock, and also may impact our ability to continue as a going concern. The Bank is deemed to be in “troubled condition” within the meaning of federal statutes and regulations. The Bank is deemed to be in “troubled condition” within the meaning of federal statutes and regulations. As a result, certain additional limitations and regulatory requirements apply to the Parent and the Bank with respect to, among other things, future changes in senior executive management and directors, the payment of, or the agreement to pay, certain severance payments to officers, directors and employees and incurring debt. Also as a result of being deemed to be in troubled condition, each of the Parent and the Bank may not pay dividends to its shareholders (including payments by the Parent related to trust preferred securities), and may not purchase or redeem its stock without prior approval of the Federal Reserve and the SCC. A continuation or further deterioration of the current economic environment could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. A continuation of the recent distress in significant portions of the national and local economy and global financial markets, particularly if it worsens, could impact the Company’s performance, both directly by affecting our revenues and the value of our assets and liabilities, and indirectly by affecting our counterparties and customers. Dramatic declines in the housing market in the past three years have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including by us. Concerns about the stability of the financial markets generally have reduced the availability of funding to certain financial institutions, leading to a tightening of credit and a reduction of business activity. It is not clear at this time what impact existing or future liquidity and funding initiatives of the U.S. Treasury and other bank regulatory agencies will have on the financial markets and the financial services industry. The limited credit availability, recessed economic conditions and reduced demand for loan products currently being experienced could continue to affect the U.S. banking industry and the broader U.S. and global economies, which would have an effect on all financial institutions, including a potential material adverse effect on the Company. We may incur losses if we are unable to successfully manage interest rate risk. Our profitability depends in substantial part upon the spread between the interest rates we earn on investments and loans and the interest rates we pay on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. These rates are normally in line with our competition and might vary based on the Asset/Liability Management Committee’s vision of the Company’s needs. Changes in interest rates will affect our operating performance and financial condition in diverse ways including the pricing of securities, loans and deposits, and the volume of loan originations in our mortgage banking business. We attempt to minimize our exposure to interest rate risk, but we will be unable to eliminate it. Our net interest spread depends on many factors that are partly or entirely outside our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. We may face substantial potential liability and significant regulatory action, including in connection with investigations being conducted by a federal grand jury and the SEC, which could have material adverse financial consequences or cause significant reputational harm to us. We face significant legal and regulatory risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against us and other financial institutions remain high and are increasing. Increased litigation costs, substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us, including regulatory action against us due to certain bank examination results, could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously impact our business prospects. As further described in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” a federal grand jury is investigating the Bank and certain former and current officers and directors, and the SEC is investigating the Company and certain of its practices. These investigations, with which we are cooperating fully, may result in a diversion of management’s attention and our resources, including costs attributable to legal fees. Although the current status of the investigations prevents us from predicting when or how these investigations will be resolved, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is harmed or there is speculation as to whether we will be able to continue as a going concern. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is damaged or there is speculation as to whether we will be able to continue as a going concern. Our actual or perceived failure to address various issues could give rise to reputational risk that could cause harm to us and our business prospects. These issues include, but are not limited to, legal and regulatory requirements, including compliance with the Written Agreement, maintenance of adequate capital levels and ongoing governmental investigations. Damage to our reputation could give rise to legal risks, which, in turn, could increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses. For example, as referenced above and as more fully discussed in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” a federal grand jury is investigating the Bank and certain former and current officers and directors, and the SEC is investigating the Company and certain of its practices. Although the current status of the investigations prevents us from predicting when or how these investigations will be resolved, these investigations and their outcomes could damage our reputation and adversely effect our business. We need to raise additional capital that may not be available to us. Regulatory authorities require us to maintain certain levels of capital to support our operations. The Bank’s total regulatory capital at December 31, 2010, was $27.6 million below the level required to be considered “well-capitalized” on a consolidated basis under the regulations of the Federal Reserve. As described above, the Company and the Bank are “undercapitalized” and have an immediate need to raise capital. Additionally, the Written Agreement required the Parent and the Bank to submit a capital plan to the Federal Reserve and the SCC; the capital plan that the Company submitted to the Federal Reserve and the SCC requires the Company to raise additional capital to improve the Company’s and the Bank’s capitalization. Even if we succeed in raising the capital, we may need to raise additional capital in the future due to additional losses or regulatory mandates. The ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, additional capital may not be raised, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to increase our capital ratios could be materially impaired, and we could face additional regulatory action that could further limit our future operations. In addition, if we issue additional equity capital, it may be at a price lower than the then-current market price or book value and, in all cases, our existing shareholders’ interest would be diluted. The Federal Reserve has required us to commit capital resources to support our bank subsidiary, which may adversely impact our financial condition. As a matter of policy, the Federal Reserve, which examines us and our subsidiaries, expects a bank holding company to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to a subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support such a subsidiary bank. Under the “source of strength” doctrine, the Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the bank holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to such a subsidiary bank. A capital injection may be required at times when the holding company may not have the resources to provide it and therefore may be required to borrow the funds. Any loans by a holding company to its subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the institution’s general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by the holding company in order to make the required capital injection becomes more difficult and expensive and will adversely impact the holding company’s cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In the Written Agreement between the Company, the Federal Reserve and the SCC, the Parent is required to utilize all available resources to act as a source of strength for the Bank. The Parent may be required to commit significant resources to the Bank, which may adversely impact the Parent’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects or the price of its common stock, and also may impact its ability to continue as a going concern. We may become subject to additional regulatory restrictions in the event that our regulatory capital levels continue to decline. We believe the Company and the Bank to be “undercapitalized” under the regulatory framework, as of December 31, 2010. The additional regulatory restrictions resulting from the decline in our capital category, or any further decline, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects or the price of our common stock, and also may impact our ability to continue as a going concern. When a state member bank is classified as “undercapitalized,” that bank is required to submit a capital restoration plan to the Federal Reserve. Pursuant to FDICIA, an “undercapitalized bank” is prohibited from increasing its assets, engaging in a new line of business, acquiring any interest in any company or insured depository institution, or opening or acquiring a new branch office, except under certain circumstances, including the acceptance by the Federal Reserve of a capital restoration plan for the bank. Furthermore, if a bank is classified as “significantly undercapitalized” or “critically undercapitalized,” the Federal Reserve would be required to take one or more prompt corrective actions. These actions would include, among other things, requiring sales of new securities to bolster capital, improvements in management, limits on interest rates paid, prohibitions on 14 Table of Contents transactions with affiliates, termination of certain risky activities, and restrictions on compensation paid to executive officers. If a bank is classified as “critically undercapitalized,” FDICIA requires the bank to be placed into conservatorship or receivership within 90 days, unless the Federal Reserve determines that other action would better achieve the purposes of FDICIA regarding prompt corrective action with respect to undercapitalized banks. Our management has identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which if not properly remediated could result in material misstatements in our future interim and annual financial statements and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects or the price of our common stock. As further described in “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures,” our management has identified certain deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting and have concluded that these control deficiencies constitute material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting at December 31, 2010. A “material weakness,” as defined in the standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”), is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Although we are in the process of implementing and have already implemented certain initiatives aimed at addressing these significant deficiencies, these initiatives may not remediate the material weaknesses. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could result in us not being able to accurately report our financial results, prevent or detect fraud or provide timely and reliable financial information pursuant to the reporting obligations we will have as a public company, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Further, it could cause our investors to lose confidence in the financial information we report, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The Company’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to access sufficient liquidity could have a negative impact on our financial condition. Liquidity risk is the potential that the Company will be unable to meet its obligations as they come due, or capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding in a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances. Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit commitments to borrowers, other loan originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of borrowings, dividends to shareholders, operating expenses and capital expenditures. Liquidity is derived primarily from retail and commercial deposit growth and retention; principal and interest payments on loans; principal and interest payments on investment securities; sale, maturity and prepayment of investment securities; net cash provided from operations and access to other funding sources. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwide credit markets deteriorates. Our ability to access financing could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. See the next two risk factors for further discussion of restrictions on our ability to access funding sources. Current and future restrictions on brokered deposits and the conduct of our business could adversely impact our ability to attract deposits or otherwise impact our liquidity and profitability. As of December 31, 2010, the Bank is classified as “undercapitalized” and is no longer considered “well-capitalized” under banking regulations. As an undercapitalized bank, federal banking regulations prohibit us from originating, renewing or rolling over brokered deposits and also restrict the interest rates that we can offer on our deposits. If we return to “adequately capitalized” status, we will still be unable to originate, renew or roll over brokered deposits unless we obtain a waiver from the FDIC. The inability to originate, renew or roll over these deposits may adversely affect our liquidity position. For a discussion of our liquidity position, see “Capital Resources” and “Liquidity” in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition. In addition to the prohibition on originating and renewing brokered deposits, as an “undercapitalized” bank we are also prohibited from paying rates in excess of 75 basis points above the local market average on deposits of comparable maturity. The restrictions on the rates we are able to pay on deposit accounts could negatively impact our ability to compete for deposits in our market area, and our liquidity and financial performance could be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Our ability to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank Discount Window and the Federal Home Loan Bank could be restricted. Because we are no longer considered well-capitalized, our ability to borrow funds from the Federal Reserve Bank Discount Window as a source of short-term liquidity could be restricted by the Federal Reserve, which has broad discretion in regulating such borrowing. Our ability to access our available borrowing capacity from the FHLB in the future is subject to our rating and any subsequent changes based on our financial performance as compared to factors considered by the FHLB in their assignment of our credit risk rating each quarter. Because borrowings from the FHLB and Federal Reserve have historically represented our primary source of debt financing, restrictions on our borrowing capacity from the FHLB or Federal Reserve could adversely affect our access to debt financing and adversely affect our liquidity and financial performance. General business and economic conditions may significantly affect our earnings. Our business and earnings are sensitive to general business and economic conditions. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in volatility, inflation or interest rates; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. Since December 2007, the United States has been in a recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many businesses are experiencing serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has increased significantly. It is expected that the business environment will continue to stagnate or deteriorate for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance when these conditions will improve. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial market could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Dramatic declines in the housing market with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government sponsored entities. These write-downs, initially of asset-backed securities but spreading to other securities and loans, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The Company’s general financial performance, as well as the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Company operates and in the United States as a whole. Declines in real estate values in the Company’s markets have adversely impacted results of operations. A continued decline in real estate values in the Company’s markets could have a further negative effect on results of operations, and a significant decline in real estate values would likely lead to increased delinquencies and credit quality issues in the Company’s loan portfolio. In addition, a prolonged economic downturn coupled with increased unemployment and decreased consumer spending could have a further negative effect on results of the Company’s operations through higher credit losses in the commercial loan, commercial real estate loan and commercial real estate construction loan portfolios. We may be adversely affected by economic conditions in our market area. Our current market areas are the South Hampton Roads portion of Virginia, which includes the cities of Norfolk, Chesapeake, Virginia Beach, Portsmouth and Suffolk and the Northeastern portion of North Carolina, which includes the Outer Banks. In the event of an economic downturn in these markets, the lack of geographic diversification could adversely affect the banking business and, consequently, our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the economy may influence the growth rate of our loans and deposits, the quality of the loan portfolio, loan and deposit pricing and the performance of our mortgage banking and title insurance subsidiaries. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would impact these local economic conditions, the demand for banking products and services generally and the repayment ability of our borrowers, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects or the price of our common stock, and also may impact our ability to continue as a going concern. Although we might not have significant credit exposure to all the businesses in our areas, the downturn in any of these businesses could have a negative impact on local economic conditions and real estate collateral values generally, which could negatively affect our profitability. Our small to medium-sized business target market may have fewer financial resources to weather a downturn in the economy. We target our commercial development and marketing strategy primarily to serve the banking and financial services needs of small and medium-sized businesses. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact this major economic sector in the markets in which we operate, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our concentration of real estate loans subjects us to increased risks in the event real estate values continue to decline due to the economic recession, a further deterioration in the real estate markets or other causes. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in our market area. The current economic recession, deterioration in the real estate markets and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures have had an adverse effect on the collateral value for many of our loans and on the repayment ability of many of our borrowers. The continuation or further deterioration of these factors, including increasing foreclosures and unemployment, will continue to have the same or similar adverse effects. In addition, these factors could reduce the amount of loans we make to businesses in the construction and real estate industry, which could negatively impact our interest income and results of 16 Table of Contents operations. A continued decline in real estate values could also lead to higher charge-offs in the event of defaults in our real estate loan portfolio. Similarly, the occurrence of a natural or manmade disaster in our market areas could impair the value of the collateral we hold for real estate secured loans. Any one or a combination of the factors identified above could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects or the price of our common stock, and also may impact our ability to continue as a going concern. We have a concentration of credit exposure in commercial real estate. At December 31, 2010, we had approximately $635.7 million in loans to borrowers in the commercial real estate industry, representing approximately 55.1% of our total loans outstanding as of that date. The real estate consists primarily of hotel/motel, condo conversion/construction and other commercial properties. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential loans. They are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans and depend on cash flows from the owner’s business or the property to service the debt. Cash flows may be affected significantly by general economic conditions, and a downturn in the local economy or in occupancy rates in the local economy where the property is located could increase the likelihood of default. Because our loan portfolio contains a number of commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in our percentage of non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our commercial real estate loans have increased 11.9% since December 31, 2008. Banking regulators are giving commercial real estate lending greater scrutiny, and may require banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures. If our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe at the time, is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of the provision each year and the level of the allowance are matters of judgment and are impacted by many factors, including actual credit losses during the period, loan performance measures and trends (such as delinquencies and charge-offs), the collateral supporting the loans, the economic environment and other credit quality indicators, both internal and external, that may affect the quality and future loss experience of the credit portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and future losses may exceed our current estimates. Estimating loan loss allowances is more difficult for unseasoned loan portfolios, and because portions of our loan portfolio are unseasoned our allowance for loan losses may be more susceptible to changes in estimates and to losses exceeding estimates than more seasoned loan portfolios. We cannot fully predict future losses or that our loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future. Excessive loan losses could have a material impact on our financial performance. Consistent with our loan loss reserve methodology, we expect to make additions to our loan loss reserve levels as a result of possible further deterioration in asset quality, which may affect our short-term earnings. Federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and our methodology for determining our allowance, and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management, or may require us to modify our methodology for determining our allowance. Any increase in the amount of our provision or loans charged-off as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face vigorous competition from other commercial banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies and credit unions for deposits, loans and other financial services in our market area. A number of these banks and other financial institutions are significantly larger than we are and have substantially greater access to capital and other resources, as well as larger lending limits and branch systems, and offer a wider array of banking services. To a limited extent, we also compete with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable financing than we can. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us. As a result, these non-bank competitors have advantages over us in providing certain services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins and our market share and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act could increase our regulatory compliance burden and associated costs, place restrictions on certain products and services, and limit our future capital raising strategies. A wide range of regulatory initiatives directed at the financial services industry have been proposed in recent months. One of those initiatives, the Dodd-Frank Act, was signed into law on July 21, 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a sweeping overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States and mandates significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape that will impact all financial institutions, including the Company and the Bank. The Dodd-Frank Act will likely increase our regulatory compliance burden and may have a material adverse effect on us, including by increasing the costs associated with our regulatory examinations and compliance measures. However, it is too early for us to fully assess the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and subsequent regulatory rulemaking processes on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Among the Dodd-Frank Act’s significant regulatory changes, the act creates a new financial consumer protection agency that could impose new regulations on us and include its examiners in our routine regulatory examinations conducted by the Federal Reserve Board, which could increase our regulatory compliance burden and costs and restrict the financial products and services we can offer to our customers. The act increases regulatory 17 Table of Contents supervision and examination of bank holding companies and their banking and non-banking subsidiaries, which could increase our regulatory compliance burden and costs and restrict our ability to generate revenues from non-banking operations. The act imposes more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies, which could limit our future capital strategies. Our profitability may suffer because of rapid and unpredictable changes in the highly regulated environment in which we operate. The Company, primarily through the Bank, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. These regulations affect the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. It is likely that there will continue to be significant changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in the near future in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Company may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See “Regulation and Supervision” for more information about applicable banking laws and regulations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market (“NASDAQ”) that are applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, including the cost of completing our audit and maintaining our internal controls. As a result, we may experience greater compliance costs. We may not be able to manage risks inherent in our business, particularly given the recent turbulent and dynamic market conditions. A comprehensive and well-integrated risk management function is essential for our business. We have adopted various policies, procedures and systems to monitor and manage risk. These policies, procedures and systems may be inadequate to identify and mitigate all risks inherent in our business. In addition, our business and the markets and industry in which we operate are continuously evolving. We may fail to understand fully the implications of changes in our business or the financial markets and fail to adequately or timely enhance our risk framework to address those changes, particularly given the recent turbulent and dynamic market conditions. If our risk framework is ineffective, either because it fails to keep pace with changes in the financial markets or in our business or for other reasons, we could incur losses and otherwise experience harm to our business. A failure of the technology we use could harm our business and our information systems may experience a breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business and we depend heavily upon data processing, software, communication and information exchange from a number of vendors on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the internet. We cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to breaches of security or other technological difficulties or failures. A breach in the security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other information systems. A breach of the security of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Furthermore, the computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to other unforeseen problems, such as damage from fire, privacy loss, telecommunications failure or other similar events which would also have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. An extended disruption of vital infrastructure and other business interruptions could negatively impact our business. Our operations depend upon vital infrastructure components including, among other things, transportation systems, power grids and telecommunication systems. A disruption in our operations resulting from failure of transportation and telecommunication systems, loss of power, interruption of other utilities, natural disaster, fire, global climate changes, computer hacking or viruses, failure of technology, terrorist activity or the domestic and foreign response to such activity or other events outside of our control could have an adverse impact on the financial services industry as a whole and/or on our business. Our business recovery plan may not be adequate and may not prevent significant interruptions of our operations or substantial losses. The Parent’s stock price can be volatile. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. The Parent’s stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: • Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results or operations. • Recommendations by securities analysts. • Operating and stock price performance of other entities that investors deem comparable to the Company. • News reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry. • Perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or its competitors. • New technology used, or services offered, by competitors. 18 Table of Contents • Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Company or its competitors. • Changes in government regulations. • Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause the Parent’s stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. The trading volume in the Parent’s common stock is less than that of other financial services companies. Although the Parent’s common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the trading volume in its common stock is less than that of other financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Parent’s common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. Given the lower trading volume of the Parent’s common stock, significant sales of the Parent’s common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the Parent’s stock price to fall. An investment in the Parent’s common stock is not an insured deposit. The Parent’s common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Parent’s common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire the Parent’s common stock, you could lose some or all of your investment. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. We have recently had significant turnover in our senior management team and this turnover could negatively impact our future results of operations; we depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our success depends substantially on the skill and abilities of our executive officers and senior officers. The recent loss of key personnel has disrupted our operations. During the fourth quarter of 2010, the Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company, and an Executive Vice President and Senior Loan Officer departed the Company. An interim President has been appointed until a permanent replacement is named. In addition, several Senior Loan Officers have been hired in the first quarter of 2011. We cannot assure you that this new management team will be successful in executing our strategy and improving our current results of operations. Our business success is also dependent upon our ability to continue to attract, hire, motivate and retain skilled personnel to develop new customer relationships as well as new financial products and services. Many experienced banking professionals employed by our competitors are covered by agreements not to compete or solicit their existing customers if they were to leave their current employment. These agreements make the recruitment of these professionals more difficult. The market for these people is competitive, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, hiring, motivating or retaining them. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 