Item 1A. Risk Factors Investments in Bancorp’s common stock involve risk, and Bancorp’s profitability and success may be affected by a number of factors including those discussed below. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce Bancorp’s profitability. Bancorp’s primary source of income is from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Management expects to periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of Bancorp’s assets and liabilities, meaning that either Bancorp’s interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than Bancorp’s interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to Bancorp’s position, this “gap” will work against Bancorp and Bancorp’s earnings may be negatively affected. Many factors affect the fluctuation of market interest rates, including, but not limited to the following: · inflation; · recession; · a rise in unemployment; · tightening money supply; and · international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Bancorp’s asset-liability management strategy, which is designed to mitigate Bancorp’s risk from changes in market interest rates, may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on Bancorp’s results of operations and financial condition. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect Bancorp’s profitability. Bancorp faces vigorous competition from banks and other financial institutions. A number of these banks and other financial institutions have substantially greater resources and lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services. Additionally, Bancorp encounters competition from both de novo and smaller community banks entering its markets. Bancorp also competes with other providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies. This competition may reduce or limit Bancorp’s margins on banking services, reduce Bancorp’s market share and adversely affect Bancorp’s results of operations and financial condition. The unexpected loss of key members of Bancorp’s management team may adversely affect Bancorp’s operations. Bancorp’s success to date has been influenced strongly by Bancorp’s ability to attract and to retain senior management experienced in banking and financial services. Bancorp’s ability to retain executive officers and the current management teams of each of Bancorp’s lines of business will continue to be important to successful implementation of Bancorp’s strategies. There are no employment or non-compete agreements with any of these key employees, but there are non-solicitation agreements with all Bank officers. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on Bancorp’s business and financial results. Bancorp’s profitability depends on local and national economic conditions. Bancorp’s success depends on general economic conditions both locally and nationally. Most of Bancorp’s customers are in the Louisville MSA with a growing number of customers in the Indianapolis and Cincinnati areas. Some of Bancorp’s customers are directly impacted by the local economy while others have more national or global business dealings. Some of the factors influencing general economic conditions include inflation, recession, and unemployment. Economic conditions can have an impact on the demand of Bancorp’s customers for loans, the ability of some borrowers to repay these loans, and the value of the collateral securing these loans. 5 Loan growth and collectability are critical to Bancorp’s profitability. Significant decline in general economic conditions will negatively affect the financial results of Bancorp’s banking operations. If Bancorp’s allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, Bancorp’s earnings could decrease. Bancorp’s loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to ensure repayment. Accordingly, Bancorp may experience significant credit losses which could have a material adverse effect on operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of Bancorp’s loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of Bancorp’s borrowers and the value of real estate and other assets serving as collateral for repayment of many of Bancorp’s loans. In determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, management considers, among other factors, Bancorp’s loan loss experience and an evaluation of economic conditions. Bancorp has continued to perform well facing a more challenging environment and has responded aggressively to work through loan problems; however, Bancorp will not remain immune from challenges that affect the economy as a whole. There has been a general weakening macroeconomic trend, particularly slumping housing market conditions and widespread signs of deteriorating credit quality. If Bancorp’s assumptions prove to be incorrect, Bancorp’s current allowance may not be sufficient to cover loan losses and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in Bancorp’s loan portfolio. Material additions to Bancorp’s allowance would materially decrease Bancorp’s net income. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review Bancorp’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in Bancorp’s provision for loan losses or further loan charge-offs. Any increase in Bancorp’s provision for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on net income. Bancorp operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations. Bancorp is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal or state legislation could have a substantial impact on Bancorp’s bank and its operations. Additional legislation and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect Bancorp’s powers, authority and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on Bancorp’s financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of regulatory power may have negative impact on Bancorp’s results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Bancorp has no unresolved SEC staff comments. 