Item 1A. Risk Factors Investments in Bancorp’s common or preferred stock involve risk, and Bancorp’s profitability and success may be affected by a number of factors including those discussed below. Difficult national and local market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Declines in the housing market over the past few years, falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under employment have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write downs of asset values by many financial institutions. These write downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. To date, the impact of these adverse conditions has not been as severe in the primary market we serve. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will stabilize the U.S. financial system. Under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program the FDIC may offer a guarantee of certain financial institution indebtedness in exchange for an insurance premium to be paid to the FDIC by issuing financial institutions. Participation in the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program likely will require the payment of additional insurance premiums to the FDIC. We may be required to pay higher FDIC premiums than those published for 2009 because market developments have depleted the deposit insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that the EESA and its implementing regulations, the FDIC programs, or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the EESA, the FDIC, or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or access to credit. Our financial condition and profitability depend significantly on local and national economic conditions. Our success depends on general economic conditions both locally and nationally. Most of our customers are in the Louisville Metropolitan Statistical Area with a growing number of customers in the Indianapolis and Cincinnati areas. Some of our customers are directly impacted by the local economy while others have more national or global business dealings. Some of the factors influencing general economic conditions include inflation, recession and unemployment. Economic conditions can have an impact on the demand of our customers for loans, the ability of some borrowers to repay these loans, availability of deposits and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Recently declining values of real estate may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in our market area. Adverse changes in the local or national economy could negatively affect our customer’s ability to pay these loans. If borrowers are unable to repay their loans from us and there has been deterioration in the value of the loan collateral, we could experience higher loan losses. 5 Table of Contents Additional increases in loan loss provisions may be necessary in the future. Deterioration in the quality of our credit portfolio can have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Recent unprecedented market volatility and significant stock market decline could negatively affect our financial results. Capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year and have been particularly volatile in recent months. These conditions have placed downward pressure on credit availability, credit worthiness and our customers’ inclinations to borrow. A continued or worsening disruption and volatility could negatively impact our customers’ ability to seek new loans or to repay existing loans. The personal wealth of many of our borrowers and guarantors has historically added a source of financial strength to those loans and has been negatively impacted by the recent severe market declines. If our actual loan losses are greater than our allowance assumption for loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans, the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to ensure repayment and the wealth of guarantors providing guarantees to support these loans may be insufficient to aid in the repayment of these loans. Accordingly, we may experience significant credit losses which could have a material adverse effect on operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of real estate and other assets serving as collateral for repayment of many of our loans. In determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, we consider, among other factors, our loan loss experience and an evaluation of economic conditions. There has been a general weakening macroeconomic trend, particularly slumping housing market conditions and widespread signs of deteriorating credit quality. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect or economic problems are much worse than projected, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover loan losses and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Such additions to our allowance could have a material adverse impact on our net income. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in our provision for loan losses or further loan charge-offs. If the regulatory agencies require any increase in our provision for loan losses or loan charge-offs for which we had not allocated, it would have a negative effect on net income. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability. Our primary source of income is from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect to periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this “gap” will work against us and our earnings may be negatively affected. Many factors affect the fluctuation of market interest rates, including, but not limited to the following: · inflation; · recession; · a rise in unemployment; · tightening money supply; · international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets; · the Federal Reserve reducing rates; and · competition. Prevailing interest rates are at historically low levels, and indications are that the Federal Reserve will likely maintain the low rates for much of the upcoming year. A decrease in interest rates will decrease our net 6 Table of Contents interest income. Our asset-liability management strategy, which is designed to mitigate our risk from changes in market interest rates, may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our most recent earnings simulation model estimating the impact of changing interest rates on earnings indicates net interest income will decrease by approximately 6% if interest rates decrease 100 basis points and approximately 12% if rates decrease 200 basis points, if such a decrease is possible given current low rates. Additionally, we have observed that competitor banks are willing to pay rates on deposits well in excess of normal market rates, as liquidity has become a primary concern for many banks in light of current economic conditions. Declines in the securities market could affect our profitability. Trust assets under management are expressed in terms of market value, and a significant portion of fee income is based upon those values. Fees earned are directly affected by the performance of the equity and bond markets. Continued or sustained declines in value will result in a decrease in income from investment management and trust services. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. We operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. We face vigorous competition from banks and other financial institutions. A number of these banks and other financial institutions have substantially greater resources and lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services. Additionally, we encounter competition from both de novo and smaller community banks entering our markets. We also compete with other providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms, and credit unions. This competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking services, reduce our market share and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We rely heavily on our management team, and the unexpected loss of key managers may adversely affect our operations. Our success to date has been influenced strongly by our ability to attract and to retain senior management experienced in banking and financial services. Our ability to retain executive officers and the current management teams of each of our lines of business will continue to be important to successful implementation of our strategies. There are no employment or non-compete agreements with any of these key employees, but there are non-solicitation agreements with all bank officers. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our accounting policies and methods are critical to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. They require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. Accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report the financial condition and results of operations. We must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (US GAAP). We have identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management’s judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments and contingencies. A variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, or reducing a liability. We have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. Because of the uncertainty surrounding our judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, there can be no assurances that actual results will not differ from those estimates. 7 Table of Contents See the “Critical Accounting Policies” in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for more information. An extended disruption of vital infrastructure or a security breach could negatively impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our operations depend upon, among other things, our infrastructure, including equipment and facilities. Extended disruption of vital infrastructure by fire, power loss, natural disaster, telecommunications failure, information systems breaches, terrorist activity or the domestic and foreign response to such activity, or other events outside of our control could have a material adverse impact on the financial services industry as a whole and on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business recovery plan may not work as intended or may not prevent significant interruption of our operations. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in the loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal or state legislation could have a substantial impact on our bank and its operations. Additional legislation and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect our powers, authority and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of regulatory power may have negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Bancorp has no unresolved SEC staff comments. 