Item 1A. Risk Factors Investment in Bancorp’s common stock involves risk, and Bancorp’s profitability and success may be affected by a number of factors including those discussed below. Financial condition and profitability depend significantly on local and national economic conditions. Our success depends on general economic conditions both locally and nationally. Most of Bancorp’s customers are in the Louisville, Indianapolis, and Cincinnati metropolitan areas. Compared to regional or national financial institutions, we are less able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Some of Bancorp’s customers are directly impacted by the local economy while others have more national or global business dealings. Some of the factors influencing general economic conditions include tepid economic recovery, unemployment, and government regulation. Poor economic conditions have an unfavorable impact on the demand of customers for loans and the ability of some borrowers to repay these loans. Deterioration in the quality of the credit portfolio could have a material adverse effect on financial condition, results of operations, and ultimately capital. Financial condition and profitability depend on real estate values in our market area. Bancorp offers a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Over half of Bancorp’s loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in Bancorp’s market area. In instances where borrowers are unable to repay their loans from us and there has been deterioration in the value of the loan collateral, Bancorp could experience higher loan losses which could have a material adverse effect on financial condition, results of operations, and ultimately capital. 5 Table of Contents If actual loan losses are greater than Bancorp’s assumption for loan losses, earnings could decrease. Bancorp’s loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans, the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to ensure repayment and the wealth of guarantors providing guarantees to support these loans may be insufficient to aid in the repayment of these loans. Accordingly, Bancorp may experience significant credit losses which could have a material adverse effect on operating results. Bancorp makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of real estate and other assets serving as collateral for repayment of many loans. In determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, Bancorp considers, among other factors, an evaluation of economic conditions and Bancorp’s loan loss experience. If Bancorp’s assumptions prove to be incorrect or economic problems are worse than projected, the current allowance may not be sufficient to cover loan losses and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in the loan portfolio. Such additions to the allowance, if necessary, could have a material adverse impact on financial results. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review Bancorp’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or loan charge-offs. If the regulatory agencies require any increase in the provision for loan losses or loan charge-offs for which Bancorp had not allocated, it would have a negative effect on net income. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce profitability. Our primary source of income is from the net interest spread, the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Bancorp expects to periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of Bancorp’s assets and liabilities, meaning that either interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to Bancorp’s position, this “gap” will work against Bancorp and earnings will be negatively affected. Many factors affect the fluctuation of market interest rates, including, but not limited to the following: · inflation or deflation · recession · a rise in unemployment · tightening money supply · international disorder and instability in foreign financial markets · the Federal Reserve’s actions to control interest rates Bancorp’s interest rate sensitivity analysis indicates an increase in interest rates of up to 2% would decrease net interest income, primarily because the majority of Bancorp’s variable rate loans have floors of 4% or higher, and are indexed to the prime rate. Since the prime rate is currently 3.25%, rates would have to increase more than 75 bp before the rates on such loans will rise. This effect negatively impacts the effect of rising rates. Deposit rates generally do not reprice as quickly as loans which negatively affects earnings as rates decline. Bancorp’s asset-liability management strategy, which is designed to mitigate risk from changes in market interest rates, may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on Bancorp’s results of operations and financial condition. Bancorp’s most recent earnings simulation model estimating the impact of changing interest rates on earnings indicates net interest income will decrease approximately 1.3% if interest rates immediately decrease 100 basis points for the next 12 months and decrease approximately 3.2% if rates increase 100 basis points. Prevailing interest rates are at historically low levels, and current indications are that the Federal Reserve will likely maintain the low rates at least through the first half of 2015. Significant stock market volatility could negatively affect Bancorp’s financial results. Capital and credit markets experience volatility and disruption from time to time. These conditions place downward pressure on credit availability, credit worthiness and customers’ inclinations to borrow. Prolonged volatility or a significant disruption could negatively impact customers’ ability to seek new loans or to repay existing loans. The personal wealth of many borrowers and guarantors has historically added a source of financial strength to certain loans 6 Table of Contents and would be negatively impacted by severe market declines. Sustained reliance on their personal assets to make loan payments would result in deterioration of their liquidity, and could result in loan defaults. Income from investment management and trust services constitutes approximately 47% of non-interest income. Trust assets under management are expressed in terms of market value, and a significant portion of fee income is based upon those values. While investment management and trust fees are based on market values, they typically do not fluctuate directly with the overall stock market. Accounts typically contain fixed income and equity asset classes, which generally react to market fluctuations inversely to each other. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect profitability. Bancorp operates in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Bancorp faces vigorous competition from banks and other financial institutions. A number of these banks and other financial institutions have substantially greater resources and lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services. Additionally, Bancorp encounters competition from smaller community banks in Bancorp’s markets. Bancorp also competes with other non-traditional providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms and insurance companies. As internet-based financial services continue to grow in acceptance, Bancorp must remain relevant as a place where consumers and businesses value personal service while our competition offers these services without human interaction. These sources of competition may reduce or limit margins on banking services, reduce market share and adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. Credit unions continue to grow in popularity and size, and their expansion into business lending is growing. Because credit unions are not subject to federal income tax, and Bancorp pays federal income tax at a marginal rate of 35%, these companies have a significant competitive advantage over Bancorp. This advantage may have a negative impact on Bancorp’s growth and resultant financial results as these credit unions continue to expand. An extended disruption of vital infrastructure or a security breach could negatively impact Bancorp’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. Bancorp’s operations depend upon, among other things, infrastructure, including equipment and facilities. Extended disruption of vital infrastructure by fire, power loss, natural disaster, telecommunications failure, information systems breaches, terrorist activity or the domestic and foreign response to such activity, or other events outside of Bancorp’s control could have a material adverse impact on the financial services industry as a whole and on Bancorp’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Bancorp’s business continuity plan may not work as intended or may not prevent significant interruption of operations. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of information systems could damage Bancorp’s reputation, result in the loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have an adverse effect on Bancorp’s financial condition and results of operation. Bancorp’s assets which are at risk for cyber-attacks include financial assets and non-public information belonging to customers. Bancorp utilizes several third-party vendors who have access to our assets via electronic media. Certain cyber security risks arise due to this access, including cyber espionage, blackmail, ransom, and theft. Bancorp employs many preventive and detective controls to protect its assets, and provides mandatory recurring information security training to all employees. Bancorp requires third parties to have similar or superior controls in place. Bancorp did not suffer a material incident in the years reported herein. Bancorp maintains certain insurance coverage to prevent material financial loss from cyber-attacks. Bancorp’s accounting policies and methods are critical to how Bancorp reports its financial condition and results of operations. They require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. Accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how Bancorp records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. Bancorp must exercise judgment in selecting and applying these accounting policies and methods so they comply with United States generally accepted accounting principles (US GAAP). Bancorp has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management’s judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments and contingencies. A variety of factors could affect the 7 Table of Contents ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, or reducing a liability. Bancorp has established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. Because of the uncertainty surrounding Bancorp’s judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, there can be no assurances that actual results will not differ from those estimates. See the “Critical Accounting Policies” in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for more information. Bancorp operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations. Bancorp is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal or state legislation could have a substantial impact on Bancorp and its operations. Additional legislation and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect Bancorp’s powers, authority and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on Bancorp’s financial condition and results of operations. The exercise of regulatory power may have negative impact on Bancorp’s results of operations and financial condition. We need to stay current on technological changes in order to compete and meet customer demands. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The future success of Bancorp will depend, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional operational efficiencies and greater privacy and security protection for customers and their personal information. Many of Bancorp’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Bancorp may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services as quickly as competitors or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could impair Bancorp’s ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business and could have an adverse impact on its business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in the industry and the markets in which we engage can be intense, and we may not be able to retain or hire the people we want or need. In order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate them at market levels. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, our performance, including our competitive position, could suffer, and, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Bancorp has no unresolved SEC staff comments. 