ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Described below are certain risks that we face. Our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected by, and the trading price of our common stock could decline due to, any of these risks. This Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements for many reasons, including the factors described below and elsewhere in this Report. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Our auditor’s report states that our operating losses and our potential inability to reach agreement with our lenders raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm, BDO Seidman, LLP, has concluded that substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern and has included that conclusion in its audit report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. BDO Seidman, LLP’s conclusion is based on our recurring losses from operations, our retained deficit of $85.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, and the current default status of our credit facilities. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in reaching an agreement on acceptable terms with our lenders, if at all. If we cannot reach agreement with our lenders, such defaults could allow the lenders to discontinue lending or declare all borrowings outstanding to be due and payable. If any of these events occur, there is no assurance that we will have sufficient funds available to pay in full the total amount of obligations that become due as a result of any such acceleration, or that we will be able to find additional or alternative financing to refinance any such accelerated obligation. The “going concern” opinion may cause concern to one or more of our constituencies of employees, stockholders, customers, vendors or trade creditors. If any customer’s, vendor’s or trade creditor’s concern changes their business relations with us by stopping work, ceasing sales, requiring sales on cash terms or other changes, these changes may materially adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. 7 Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and impair our ability to operate our business. We are a highly leveraged company and, as a result, have significant debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $34.2 million of total debt, substantially all of which, including accrued interest, is classified as current because of the default status of our credit facilities. Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to make payments on our debt obligations; • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures, research and development, and future business opportunities; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are at variable interest rates; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. We may not generate sufficient cash flow to service our indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest with respect to our indebtedness and to fund our operations, working capital, and capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot guarantee that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay our indebtedness and fund other liquidity needs. Based upon our anticipated operating performance, cash flow, and capital resources, we will not be able to pay our debt obligations as they become due. Assuming we reach an interim agreement with our lenders in the near future, we expect to restructure our indebtedness in late fiscal year 2006 or early fiscal year 2007. However, we cannot guarantee that we will reach an interim agreement or be able to restructure any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; • pay dividends on, repurchase, or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; • make certain investments; • sell certain assets; • create liens; and • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, under the agreements governing our indebtedness, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot guarantee that we will meet those ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, and upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders could declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral, and we cannot guarantee that we will have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness. 8 We are dependent on certain key customers. The loss of any such customer would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues are substantially dependent on our primary customer, Electrolux. Electrolux accounted for approximately 67% of our consolidated product net sales in fiscal 2005 (excludes tooling net sales). We expect that our reliance on this customer will continue for the foreseeable future. The loss of Electrolux as a customer would have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Our success is dependent on continued growth in the automotive, home appliance and consumer goods industries, and our revenues will be reduced if there are reductions in such growth. The success of our business depends on the profitability of our customers’ business, and our primary customers are in businesses that are highly sensitive to changes in general economic conditions: the automotive and consumer goods industries. We expect that this will be true for the foreseeable future. Their demand for our products and services changes as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates, increases in their cost structures, and other factors beyond our control. The performance of our business is directly related to the production levels of our customers. If our customers’ rate of growth is slow, or if they experience contraction, our business and the results of our operations could be adversely affected. Even if sales by our major customers become strong, our results of operations may be less than we anticipate if sales to other customers do not grow or grow slower than anticipated. Similarly, unfavorable market reaction to the industry in general or the results of operations reported by our customers may cause a corresponding decline in the results of our operations. Continued pricing pressure from the automotive industry may have a materially adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Pricing pressure from automotive original equipment manufacturers has been a characteristic of the automotive industry in recent years. Many automotive original equipment manufacturers have policies of seeking price reductions each year. Although we have taken steps to reduce costs and resist price reductions, current and future price reductions could materially adversely impact our sales and profit margins. If we are unable to offset continued price reductions through improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, those price reductions may result in declining margins and operating results. Capital investments may be necessary to achieve our growth plans, which may reduce earnings and negatively affect the value of our common stock. Our growth plans may require capital investments, in particular, in relation to organic growth with our current customers. Our ability to meet these capital requirements depends on numerous factors such as the availability of funds from operations and access to additional debt and equity financing. No assurance can be given that the necessary funds will be available. The amended senior and subordinated debt facilities place limits on capital expenditures during the terms of the related agreements. Moreover, incurrence of additional debt financing may involve restrictive covenants that could negatively affect our ability to operate the combined business in the desired manner, and raising additional equity may not be possible, or if possible, would likely be dilutive to shareholders. The failure to obtain funds necessary for the realization of our growth plans could prevent us from realizing our growth strategy and, in particular, could force us to forego acquisition opportunities that may arise in the future. This could, in turn, have a negative impact on our competitive position. We must keep pace with rapid technological change, market conditions and industry developments to maintain or grow our revenues. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to enhance our current product offerings to keep pace with customer needs. We may not be successful in developing and marketing products in a timely manner that respond to the technological advances by others, and our products may not adequately or competitively address the needs of the changing marketplace. 9 Our operating results may suffer because of competition in the plastic injection molding industry. The plastic injection molding industry is highly competitive and is served by numerous companies. Several of these competitors may have equal or significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, generate greater revenues and have greater name recognition than we do. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our market include integrated operations, short lead-time mold delivery, product quality, pricing and expertise in new and evolving technologies. We may not be able to compete effectively on these or other bases, and, as a result, we may not be able to maintain our current customer relationships or develop new customer relationships. Our business operations could be significantly disrupted if we lose members of our management team. We believe that our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key personnel, both individually and as a group. Our future performance will be substantially dependent on our ability to retain and motivate them. We are a supplier of parts rather than end products. Accordingly, our success is dependent on the outsourcing by our customers of the design, engineering and manufacture of plastic parts for our current revenues and future growth and on our continued access to certain design and engineering services. If existing outsourcing from our current customers ceased, our business, including our results of operations and financial condition, would be adversely affected. Furthermore, our growth is dependent on the continued trend by original equipment manufacturers, particularly in the automotive industry, to outsource their manufacturing needs for plastic and related parts. If original equipment manufacturers or companies providing them with assembled products were to perform more manufacturing services themselves, our revenues might decline and our business and results of operations would be harmed. We are subject to risks related to product defects, which could result in product recalls. We maintain strict quality controls and procedures, including the testing of raw materials and safety testing of selected finished products. However, we cannot be certain that our testing will reveal latent defects in our products or the materials from which they are made, which may not become apparent until after the products have been sold to original equipment manufacturers. Accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall. Product recalls can be expensive to implement, and we may be required to replace the defective product. In addition, a product recall may damage our relationship with our customers, and we may lose market share with our customers. Consumer preferences or technological advances could reduce the utilization of plastic injection molded parts which would have an adverse effect on us. Consumer trends and preferences have significant influence on the choice of materials utilized in the manufacture of some of the parts we supply. For example, chrome or other metals can be substituted for plastic strictly as a marketing decision unrelated to functionality of the part. If either consumer demand for non-plastic parts or new technological developments leading to lower cost substitutes for plastic parts cause our customers to switch to non-plastic materials, our sales and/or revenues could decrease and our costs, as a percent of sales, could increase. Furthermore, we could find it necessary to expand into the production of non-plastic parts to maintain our market share. This could give rise to new production or operational risks, which could include risks associated with using new or unfamiliar technology. Such risks, even if inherent in the adoption of any new technology or production processing, could affect our costs of production, efficiency, quality control or the integration of such new operations with our existing operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 