D. Risk factors You should consider carefully the following factors as well as other information set forth in this report. Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which the Company operates and its business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of its stock. Any of the risk factors could significantly and negatively affect its business, financial condition or operating results and the trading price of its stock. You could lose all or part of your investment. Industry Specific Risk Factors The cyclical nature of the international shipping industry may lead to volatile changes in charter rates and vessel values, which may adversely affect its earnings The shipping industry is generally known to be cyclical. Vessel values and charter freight rates fluctuate widely and frequently, and the Company expects they will continue to do so in the future. Growth within the largest economies will normally contribute to an increase in the ton-mile demand in global seaborne trade. The operations of the Company on a worldwide basis may increase the volatility of the Company’s business The operations of the Company are conducted primarily outside the United States and therefore may be affected by currency fluctuations and by changing economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where its vessels operate and are registered. Future hostilities or other political instability in the regions in which the Company conducts its operations could affect the Company’s trade patterns and could adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. Although the substantial majority of the Company’s revenues and expenses have historically been denominated in United States dollars, there can be no assurance that the portion of the Company’s business conducted in other currencies will not increase in the future, which could expand the Company’s exposure to losses arising from currency fluctuations. The Company is subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws that could require significant expenditures and affect its cash flows and net income The Company’s operations are subject to extensive regulation in the form of local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions that can subject us to material liabilities for environmental events. The operation of its vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention (the “ISM Code”). The ISM Code requires shipowners and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive “Safety Management System” that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject such party to increased liability, may decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels, and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Currently, each of the vessels in the Company's fleet is ISM Code-certified. However, there can be no assurance that such certification will be maintained indefinitely. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, provides that owners, operators and bareboat charterers are strictly liable for the discharge of oil in U.S. waters, including the 200 nautical mile zone off the U.S. coasts. OPA provides for unlimited liability in some circumstances, such as a vessel operator’s gross negligence or willful misconduct. However, in most cases OPA limits liability to the greater of $1,200 per gross ton or $10 million per vessel. OPA also permits states to set their own penalty limits. Most states bordering navigable waterways impose unlimited liability for discharges of oil in their waters. The International Maritime Organization, or IMO, has adopted a similar liability scheme that imposes strict liability for oil spills, subject to limits that do not apply if the release is caused by the vessel owner’s intentional or reckless conduct. The U.S. has established strict deadlines for phasing-out single-hull oil tankers, and both the IMO and the European Union have proposed similar phase-out periods. Under OPA, all oil tankers that do not have double hulls will be phased out by 2015 and will not be permitted to come to United States ports or trade in United States waters. Six of the Company’s product tankers, or approximately 33% by deadweight ton (“DWT”) of the Company’s combined fleet, will be prohibited from carrying crude oil and oil products in U.S. waters by August 2011, with the phase out of such tankers occurring over the course of the period from August 2006 until August 2011. In December 2003, the IMO adopted a proposed amendment to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships to accelerate the phase out of single-hull and non-qualifying double sided tankers from 2015 to 2010 unless the relevant flag states extend the date to 2015. This amendment took effect in April 2005. The Company expects that its six single-hull medium range (“MR”) tankers and its double sided Panamax product tanker will be unable to carry crude oil and petroleum products in many markets commencing between 2007 and 2009. Moreover, the IMO or other regulatory bodies may adopt further regulations in the future that could adversely affect the useful lives of its tankers as well as its inability to generate income from them. Also, new IMO regulation came into force as of January 1st 2007 requiring vegetable oils to be carried on IMO type 2 chemical tankers. This regulation effectively excluded the 6 MR ships from this trade. The company has therefore decided to convert these ships to meet the new requirements for both IMO Annex II and also Annex I, which regulates petroleum products. Two of the ships have already been converted and it is expected that the remaining ships will be converted in 2007. The company is also planning to convert the Sachem in 2007 to meet the same requirements as the MR’s. The Panama Canal Authority (PCA) recently issued an Advisory announcing that it may exercise its authority to deny the transit of a single-hull oil tanker which has been granted a Flag State exemption from the phase-out provisions of MARPOL (the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships). If it does allow such transit, all additional costs or resources provided to minimize the risk of environmental damage will be charged to the vessel. The PCA will evaluate each ship on a case-by-case basis. These requirements can affect the resale value or useful lives of the Company’s vessels. As a result of accidents such as the November 2002 oil spill relating to the loss of the M/T Prestige, a 26-year old single-hull tanker, the Company believes that regulation of the tanker industry will continue to become more stringent and more expensive for the Company and its competitors. Substantial violations of applicable requirements or a catastrophic release from one of the Company’s vessels could have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and results of operations as well as its reputation in the crude oil and refined petroleum products sectors, and could therefore negatively impact its ability to obtain charters proceeding forward for the rest of its fleet. The Company’s vessels are subject to inspection by a classification society The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. The Company’s fleet is currently enrolled with the American Bureau of Shipping, Bureau Veritas, Det Norske Veritas, Class NKK and Lloyds. A vessel must undergo Annual Surveys, Intermediate Surveys and Special Surveys. In lieu of a Special Survey, a vessel’s machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. The Company’s vessels are on Special Survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be drydocked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If any vessel does not maintain its class or fails any Annual Survey, Intermediate Survey or Special Survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable and the Company could be in violation of certain covenants in its loan agreements. This would negatively impact its revenues. Maritime claimants could arrest its vessels, which could interrupt its cash flow Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of its vessels could interrupt its cash flow and require us to pay large sums of funds to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in its fleet for claims relating to another of its ships. Governments could requisition the Company’s vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings A government could requisition for title or seize the Company’s vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. Also, a government could requisition its vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of its vessels may negatively impact its revenues. The shipping business is subject to the effect of world events Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, and the continuing response of the United States to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks, continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The recent conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect its ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. Terrorist attacks, such as the attack on the vessel Limburg in October 2002, may in the future also negatively affect the Company’s operations and financial condition and directly impact the Company’s vessels or customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility of the financial markets in the United States and globally and could result in an economic recession in the United States or the world. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on its operating results, revenue and costs. Company Specific Risk Factors The Company’s business is dependent on the markets for product tankers and OBOs, which can be cyclical The Company’s fleet consists of product tankers and ore/bulk/oil combination carriers (“OBOs”). Thus, the Company is dependent upon the petroleum product industry, the vegetable oil and chemical industries and the dry bulk industry as its primary sources of revenue. These industries have historically been subject to substantial fluctuation as a result of, among other things, economic conditions in general and demand for petroleum products, steel and iron ore, coal, vegetable oil and chemicals, in particular. Any material seasonal fluctuation in the industry or any material diminution in the level of activity therein could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and operating results. The profitability of these vessels and their asset value results from changes in the supply of and demand for such capacity. The factors affecting such supply and demand are described in more detail under “Industry Specific Risk Factors” above. Single hull and double sided vessels are being phased out Six of the Company’s product tankers, or approximately 31% by DWT of its combined fleet, are single hull or double sided vessels. Under the United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990, all oil tankers that do not have double hulls will be phased out over a 20-year period (1995-2015) based on size, age and place of discharge, unless retrofitted with double-hulls, and will not be permitted to come to United States ports or trade in United States waters. The European Union has required the phase out of single hull vessels carrying “heavy oil” and as a result its single hull vessels are prohibited from carrying this product to European Union ports. In addition, due to regulations adopted by the IMO under Annex I (oil) of MARPOL single hull vessels carrying petroleum products tankers must be phased out over the course of the period between 2005 and 2010. As a result of the MARPOL regulations, the Company expects that its three remaining single hulled MR product tankers will be unable to carry crude oil and petroleum products in many markets commencing between 2007 and 2009. Two of the Company’s MR tankers were retrofitted with double-hulls in 2006 and early 2007 and one is currently being retrofitted. The remaining three are scheduled for 2007 and early 2008. Unless these vessels are converted to double hull vessels, they will no longer be marketable to charterers after such time and will be required to be scrapped. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to convert these vessels prior to the phase out time, and the cost of conversion could potentially impose a financial burden upon the Company. The Company’s fleet consists of second-hand vessels All of the vessels comprising the Company’s fleet were acquired second-hand. The Company intends to purchase additional second-hand vessels. In general, expenditures necessary for maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increase as the age of the vessel increases. Moreover, second-hand vessels typically carry very limited warranties with respect to their condition as compared to warranties available for newer vessels. Because of improvements in engine technology, older vessels are typically less fuel efficient than newer vessels. Changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards may require expenditures for alterations to existing equipment or the addition of new equipment to the vessels and restrict the cargoes that the vessels may transport. There can be no assurance that market conditions will justify such expenditures or enable the Company to generate sufficient income or cash flow to allow it to meet its debt obligations. The Company is subject to financial risks related to the purchase of additional vessels The Company’s current business strategy includes the acquisition of newer, high-quality second-hand vessels. Such vessels will likely be purchased at what are now historically high vessel prices. If charter rates fall in the future, the Company may not be able to recover its investments in the new ships or even satisfy its payment obligations on its debt facilities that will be increased to finance the purchase of such new vessels. There can also be no assurance that such acquisitions will be available on terms favorable to the Company or that, if acquired, such second-hand vessels will have sufficient useful lives or carry adequate warranties. The Company may be subject to loss and liability for which it may not be fully insured The operation of any ocean-going vessel carries an inherent risk, without regard to fault, of catastrophic marine disaster, mechanical failure, collision and property losses to the vessel. Also, the business of the Company is affected by the risk of environmental accidents, the risk of cargo loss or damage, the risk of business interruption because of political action in foreign countries, labor strikes and adverse weather conditions, all of which could result in loss of revenues, increased costs or loss of reputation. The Company maintains, and intends to continue to maintain, insurance consistent with industry standards against these risks. The Company procures hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage and war risk insurance for its fleet. The Company does not maintain insurance against loss of hire for its product tankers, which covers business interruptions that result in the loss of use of a vessel. There can be no assurance that all risks will be adequately insured against, that any particular claim will be paid out of such insurance or that the Company will be able to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. More stringent environmental and other regulations may result in increased costs for, or the lack of availability of, insurance against the risks of environmental damage, pollution, damages asserted against the Company or the loss of income resulting from a vessel being removed from operations. The Company’s insurance policies contain deductibles for which the Company will be responsible and limitations and exclusions which may increase its costs or lower its revenue. The Company places a portion of its Hull and Machinery insurance with Northampton Assurance Ltd (“NAL”), the great majority of which NAL reinsures with market underwriters. NAL is a subsidiary of Northampton Holdings Ltd., a major stockholder. Although the reinsurers are investment grade insurance companies, it is possible that they might default in the settlement of a claim. Although the Company believes that NAL is adequately capitalized, in the event the reinsurers default, NAL, as primary insurer, may be unable in turn to settle the Company’s claim. Moreover, even if insurance proceeds are paid to the Company to cover the financial losses incurred following the occurrence of one of these events, there can be no assurance that the Company’s business reputation, and therefore its ability to obtain future charters, will not be materially adversely affected by such event. Such an impact on the Company’s business reputation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for its fleet in the future and the insurers may not pay particular claims. Risks involved with operating ocean-going vessels could affect the Company’s business and reputation, which would adversely affect its revenues and stock price The operation of an ocean-going vessel carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: · marine disaster; · piracy; · environmental accidents; · cargo and property losses or damage; and · business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions. Any of these circumstances or events could increase the Company’s costs or lower its revenues. The involvement of its vessels in an oil spill or other environmental disaster may harm its reputation as a safe and reliable vessel operator and lead to a loss of customers and revenue. The Company may suffer adverse consequences from the fluctuation in the market value of its vessels The fair market value of its vessels may increase and decrease significantly depending on a number of factors including: · supply and demand for products, including crude oil, petroleum products, vegetable oil, ores, coal and grain; · general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; · competition from other shipping companies; · types and sizes of vessels; · other modes of transportation; · cost of building new vessels; · governmental or other regulations; · prevailing level of charter rates; and · technological advances. If the Company sells vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen, the sale may be at less than the vessel’s carrying amount on its financial statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. In addition, the Company’s mortgage indebtedness at December 31, 2006 of $150.5 million is secured by mortgages on the existing fleet of vessels of the Company and its subsidiaries. If the market value of its fleet declines, the Company may not be in compliance with certain provisions of its existing credit facilities and the Company may not be able to refinance its debt or obtain additional financing. If the Company is unable to pledge additional collateral, its lenders could accelerate its debt and foreclose on its fleet. The Company’s vessels may suffer damage and the Company may face unexpected drydocking costs, which could affect its cash flow and financial condition If the Company’s vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. The Company may have to pay drydocking costs that its insurance does not cover. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease its earnings. Purchasing and operating previously owned, or secondhand, vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect its earnings The Company’s inspection of secondhand vessels prior to purchase does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition and cost of required (or anticipated) repairs that the Company would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Generally, the Company does not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. As of December 31, 2006, the average age of the vessels in its fleet was 19 years. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to its vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage. The Company cannot assure that, as its vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate its vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. If the Company sell vessels, the Company is not certain that the price for which the Company sells them will equal at least their carrying amount at that time. The Company is an international company and primarily conducts its operations outside the United States. Changing economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where the Company are engaged in business or where its vessels are registered affect us. In the past, political conflicts, particularly in the Arabian Gulf, resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt shipping in the area. For example, in October 2002, the vessel Limburg was attacked by terrorists in Yemen. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Following the terrorist attack in New York City on September 11, 2001, and the military response of the United States, the likelihood of future acts of terrorism may increase, and the Company’s vessels may face higher risks of being attacked in the Middle East region. In addition, future hostilities or other political instability in regions where the Company’s vessels trade could affect its trade patterns and adversely affect its operations and performance. The market for product tanker and OBO charters is highly competitive The ownership of the world’s product tanker fleet is fragmented. Competition in the industry among vessels approved by major oil companies is primarily based on price, but also vessel specification and age. There are approximately 1,100 crude oil and product tankers worldwide of between 25,000 and 50,000 DWT. Tankers are typically owned in groups or pools comprising up to about 25 vessels. The OBO industry is also fragmented and competition is also primarily based on price, but also vessel specification and age. There are approximately 78 OBOs worldwide of between 50,000 and 100,000 DWT. In this size range, the largest ownership group has nine vessels. Otherwise vessels are owned in groups of six vessels or less. The Company competes principally with other vessel owners through the global tanker and dry bulk charter market, which is comprised of shipbrokers representing both charterers and ship owners. Charterparties are quoted on either an open or private basis. Requests for quotations on an open charter are usually made by major oil companies on a general basis to a large number of vessel operators. Competition for open charters can be intense and involves vessels owned by operators such as other major oil companies, oil traders and independent ship owners. Requests for quotations on a private basis are made to a limited number of vessel operators and are greatly influenced by prior customer relationships. The Company bids for both open and private charters. Competition generally intensifies during times of low market activity when several vessels may bid to transport the same cargo. Many of the Company’s competitors have greater financial strength and capital resources, as well as younger vessels. The Company may be dependent on the spot market for charters The Company’s vessels are operated on a mix of time charters and spot market voyages. The spot charter market is highly competitive and spot charter rates are subject to greater fluctuation than time charter rates. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in keeping its vessels fully employed in the spot market or that future spot charter rates will be sufficient to enable the Company’s vessels to be operated profitably. The Company is dependent upon certain significant customers Revenue from one customer accounted for $32.9 million (34.0%) of total revenues in 2006. In 2005, revenues from three significant customers accounted for $23.9 million (32.0%), $13.5 million (18.1%) and $9.8 million (13.1%) of total revenues. During 2004, revenues from three customers accounted for $8.2 million (15.9%), $7.2 million (13.9%) and $5.8 million (11.2%) of total revenues. The Company will depend entirely on B+H Management Ltd. (“BHM”) to manage charter its fleet The Company subcontracts the commercial and most of the technical management of its fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair to BHM, an affiliated company with which the Company is under common control. The loss of BHM’s services or its failure to perform its obligations to the Company could materially and adversely affect the results of its operations. Although the Company may have rights against BHM if it defaults on its obligations to the Company, you will have no recourse against BHM. Further, the Company expects that it will need to seek approval from lenders to change its manager. BHM is a privately held company and there is little or no publicly available information about it The ability of BHM to continue providing services for its benefit will depend in part on its own financial strength. Circumstances beyond its control could impair BHM’s financial strength, and because it is privately held it is unlikely that information about its financial strength would become public unless BHM began to default on its obligations. As a result, an investor in the Company’s shares might have little advance warning of problems affecting BHM, even though these problems could have a material adverse effect on us. The Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has affiliations with BHM which could create conflicts of interest The Company’s majority shareholders, which are affiliated with Mr. Michael S. Hudner, own 50.1% of the Company and also own BHM. Mr. Hudner is also BHM’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. These responsibilities and relationships could create conflicts of interest between us, on the one hand, and BHM, on the other hand. These conflicts may arise in connection with the chartering, purchase, sale and operations of the vessels in its fleet versus vessels managed by other companies affiliated with BHM and Mr. Hudner. In particular, BHM may give preferential treatment to vessels that are beneficially owned by related parties because Mr. Hudner and members of his family may receive greater economic benefits. If the Company fails to manage its planned growth properly, the Company may not be able to successfully expand its market share The Company intends to increase substantially the size of its fleet via acquisitions. This will impose significant additional responsibilities on its management and staff, and the management and staff of BHM, and may necessitate that the Company, and they, increase the number of personnel. BHM may have to increase its customer base to provide continued employment for the vessels to be acquired. The Company’s growth will depend on: · locating and acquiring suitable vessels; · identifying and consummating acquisitions or joint ventures; · integrating any acquired business successfully with its existing operations; · enhancing its customer base; · managing its expansion; and · Obtaining required financing. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty experienced in obtaining additional qualified personnel and managing relationships with customers and suppliers and integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. The Company cannot give any assurance that the Company will be successful in executing its growth plans or that the Company will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection therewith. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to pay dividends The Company has a policy of investment for future growth and does not anticipate paying cash dividends on the common stock in the foreseeable future. Declaration and payment of any dividend is subject to the discretion of its Board of Directors. The timing and amount of dividend payments will be dependent upon its earnings, financial condition, cash requirements and availability, fleet renewal and expansion, restrictions in its loan agreements, the provisions of Liberia law affecting the payment of distributions to shareholders and other factors. If there is a substantial decline in the petroleum product market or bulk charter market, its earnings would be negatively affected thus limiting its ability to pay dividends. Liberia law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent upon the payment of such dividend. The current floating rate facilities restrict the Company from paying dividends. Servicing future debt would limit funds available for other purposes such as the payment of dividends To finance its future fleet expansion program, the Company expects to incur secured debt. The Company will need to dedicate a portion of its cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest on its debt. These payments limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. The need to service its debt may limit funds available for other purposes, including distributing cash to its shareholders, and its inability to service debt could lead to acceleration of its debt and foreclosure on its fleet. The Company’s loan agreements contain restrictive covenants that may limit the Company’s liquidity and corporate activities The Company’s loan agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit its ability to: · incur additional indebtedness; · create liens on its assets; · sell capital stock of its subsidiaries; · engage in mergers or acquisitions; · make capital expenditures; · change the management of its vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreement relating to each vessel; and · sell its vessels. Therefore, the Company may need to seek permission from its lender in order to engage in some corporate actions. The Company’s lender’s interests may be different from ours, and the Company cannot guarantee that the Company will be able to obtain its lender’s permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in its best interest. The Company is a holding company, and the Company depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy its financial obligations or to make dividend payments The Company is a holding company and its subsidiaries, which are all wholly-owned by us, conduct all of their operations and own all of their operating assets. The Company has no significant assets other than the equity interests in its wholly-owned subsidiaries. As a result, its ability to make dividend payments depends on its subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. If the Company is unable to obtain funds from its subsidiaries its Board of Directors may exercise its discretion not to pay dividends. The Company may not generate sufficient gross revenue to operate profitably or to service its indebtedness The Company had net income of $18.8 million on gross revenue of $96.9 million in 2006. Income from vessel operations was $25.9 million for the year-end December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2006, the Company had approximately $201.9 million in indebtedness. There can be no assurance that future charter rates will be sufficient to generate adequate revenues or that the Company will be able to maintain efficiency levels to permit the Company to operate profitably or to service its indebtedness. The creditworthiness and performance of its time charterers may affect its financial condition and its ability to obtain additional debt financing and pay dividends The Company’s income is derived from the charter of its vessels. Any defaults by any of its charterers could adversely impact its financial condition, including its ability to service its debt and pay dividends. In addition, the actual or perceived credit quality of its charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect its ability to obtain the additional capital resources that the Company will require purchasing additional vessels or may significantly increase its costs of obtaining such capital. The Company’s inability to obtain additional financing at all or at a higher than anticipated cost may materially affect its results of operation and its ability to implement its business strategy. As the Company expands its business, the Company will need to improve its operations and financial systems, staff and crew; if the Company cannot improve these systems or recruit suitable employees, its performance may be adversely affected The Company’s current operating and financial systems may not be adequate as the Company implements its plan to expand the size of its fleet, and its attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. In addition, as the Company expands its fleet, the Company will have to rely on BHM to recruit suitable additional seafarers and shoreside administrative and management personnel. The Company cannot assure you that BHM will be able to continue to hire suitable employees as the Company expands its fleet. If BHM’s unaffiliated crewing agent encounters business or financial difficulties, the Company may not be able to adequately staff its vessels. If the Company is unable to operate its financial and operations systems effectively or to recruit suitable employees as the Company expand its fleet, its performance may be adversely affected. In the highly competitive international shipping industry, the Company may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources The Company employs its vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners some of whom have substantially greater resources than the Company does. Competition for the transportation of dry bulk and liquid cargo can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its managers to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions that may be able to offer better prices and fleets. The Company may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively affect the effectiveness of its management and its results of operations The Company’s success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of its management team. The Company has no employment contract with its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Michael S. Hudner, or any other key individual; instead all management services are provided by BHM, Ltd. The Company’s success will depend upon BHM’s ability to hire and retain key members of its management team. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect its business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could adversely affect its results of operations. The Company is subject to the reporting requirements of Sarbanes Oxley Effective for its first fiscal year ending on or after July 15, 2008, the Company is subject to full compliance with all provisions of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”), the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 20-F. Such a report is required to contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of a company’s internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a public company’s financial statements must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting. While the Company would expend significant resources in developing the necessary documentation and testing procedures required by Section 404, there is a risk that the Company would not comply with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. If the Company fails to implement required new or improved controls, the Company may be unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of its financial statements, which could cause the market price of its common stock to decline and make it more difficult for us to finance its operations. The Company may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce its earnings Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel-owning or chartering corporation, such as the Company and its subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not begin and end, in the United States is characterized as United States source shipping income and as such is subject to a four percent United States federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder in August 2003. Such Treasury Regulations became effective on January 1, 2005, for calendar year taxpayers such as the Company and its subsidiaries. The Company expects that it will qualify for this statutory tax exemption and the Company will take this position for United States federal income tax return reporting purposes. If the Company is not entitled to this exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, it would be subject for those years to a 4% United States federal income tax on its U.S. source shipping income. The imposition of this taxation could have a negative effect on its business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to its shareholders. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders A foreign corporation will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on its proposed method of operation, the Company does not believe that the Company will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, the Company intends to treat the gross income the Company derives or are deemed to derive from its time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, the Company believes that its income from time chartering activities does not constitute “passive income,” and the assets that the Company owns and operates in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing its proposed method of operation. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or a court of law will accept its position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that the Company is a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that the Company would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of its operations. If the IRS were to find that the Company is or has been a PFIC for any taxable year, its U.S. shareholders will face adverse U.S. tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders, as discussed below under “Tax Considerations—U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders”), such shareholders would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of its common shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder’s holding period of its common shares. The Company may not be exempt from Liberian taxation, which would materially reduce its net income and cash flow by the amount of the applicable tax The Republic of Liberia enacted a new income tax law generally effective as of January 1, 2001 (the “New Act”), which repealed, in its entirety, the prior income tax law in effect since 1977 pursuant to which the Company and its Liberian subsidiaries, as non-resident domestic corporations, were wholly exempt from Liberian tax. In 2004, the Liberian Ministry of Finance issued regulations pursuant to which a non-resident domestic corporation engaged in international shipping such as ourselves will not be subject to tax under the New Act retroactive to January 1, 2001 (the “New Regulations”). In addition, the Liberian Ministry of Justice issued an opinion that the New Regulations were a valid exercise of the regulatory authority of the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, assuming that the New Regulations are valid, the Company and its Liberian subsidiaries will be wholly exempt from tax as under Prior Law. If the Company were subject to Liberian income tax under the New Act, the Company and its Liberian subsidiaries would be subject to tax at a rate of 35% on its worldwide income. As a result, its net income and cash flow would be materially reduced by the amount of the applicable tax. In addition, shareholders would be subject to Liberian withholding tax on dividends at rates ranging from 15% to 20%. The Company is incorporated in the Republic of the Liberia, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law The Company’s corporate affairs are governed by its Articles of Incorporation and By-laws and by the Liberia Business Corporations Act, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Liberia interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Liberia are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, its public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. Because most of its employees are covered by industry-wide collective bargaining agreements, failure of industry groups to renew those agreements may disrupt its operations and adversely affect its earnings All of the seafarers on the ships in its fleet are covered by industry-wide collective bargaining agreements that set basic standards. The Company cannot assure you that these agreements will prevent labor interruptions. Any labor interruptions could disrupt its operations and harm its financial performance. Item 