Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s proposed dissolution and liquidation is subject to various risks and uncertainties, some of which are described below. The Company could also be adversely affected by additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or believed to be material. Due to uncertainties surrounding the Company’s liabilities and whether the Company is able to realize the full value of its assets, the Company cannot make any assurances regarding the amount available for distribution to its shareholders. The Company has made certain projections relating to the amount of cash the Company expects to have to distribute to its shareholders upon dissolution of the Company. These projections generally relate to three areas: the amount of liabilities of MAIR and of Big Sky which must be satisfied before the Company is dissolved, the amount MAIR and Big Sky expect to realize from their assets and the amount MAIR expects to receive for its equity interest in Mesaba’s liquidating trust. Most notably, the Company has estimated the price Big Sky will receive for the sale of its aircraft, and if the actual sale price differs materially from this estimate, the amount MAIR expects to realize from its investment in Big Sky will also be materially affected. Each of the above projections is subject to multiple variables, and a negative change in any of the above projections will reduce the amount of funds the Company expects to have available for distribution to its shareholders. The Company may be unable to complete the dissolution and liquidation on as timely a basis as it would prefer. Assuming the shareholders vote to approve the Company’s dissolution and proposed Plan of Liquidation, the Company intends to make necessary filings and wind up its business as promptly as possible. The Company expects to make a liquidating distribution of excess funds not required to satisfy existing liabilities as soon as is practicable. However, there are a number of factors that could delay the Company’s anticipated timetable, including the following: 3 · delays in the payment, or arrangement for payment or compromise, of remaining Company liabilities or obligations; · delays in the liquidation of the Company’s assets, including Big Sky’s aircraft; · lawsuits or other claims asserted by the Company or against the Company; and · unanticipated legal, regulatory or administrative requirements. If the Company fails to make adequate payments to creditors prior to dissolution, or if a creditor makes a claim against the Company following dissolution, the Company’s shareholders could be liable to such creditors. Section 727 of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act requires that MAIR publish notice of its dissolution to allow creditors time to present claims against the Company. As a general rule, if a creditor fails to present its claim within the statutory time period, the creditor is barred from suing on that claim or otherwise realizing upon or enforcing the claim. However, under limited circumstances, within one year after a company’s articles of dissolution have been filed, a creditor may, upon showing good cause for not having previously filed a claim, apply to a court to allow a claim against a dissolved company. Such a claim may only be made against the corporation’s undistributed assets or, if the undistributed assets are not sufficient to satisfy the claim, against a shareholder. However, in such event, a shareholder’s liability is limited to a portion of the claim that is equal to the portion of the distributions the shareholder received in dissolution, and in no event can a shareholder’s liability exceed the amount which the shareholder actually received in the dissolution. The Company may continue to incur the expenses of complying with public company reporting requirements. The Company expects to apply to the SEC for relief from the reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for a period beginning after the Special Meeting of Shareholders. The Company cannot guarantee that the SEC will grant the requested relief. If such relief is not granted, the Company will have an obligation to continue to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, even though compliance with such reporting requirements is economically burdensome. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 