ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS ITEM 2. PROPERTIES ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES SIGNATURES EXHIBIT INDEX i CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of MAIR Holdings, Inc. (“MAIR” or the “Company”) under the caption “Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this report are forward-looking and are based upon information currently available to the Company. The Company, through its officers, directors or employees, may also from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. In connection with the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company is hereby identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of the Company. Many important factors that could cause such a difference are described in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Undue reliance should not be placed on the Company’s forward-looking statements because the matters they describe are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other unpredictable factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. The Company’s forward-looking statements are based on the information currently available and speak only as of the date on which this report was filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Over time, actual results, performance or achievements will likely differ from the anticipated results, performance or achievements that are expressed or implied by the Company’s forward-looking statements, and such differences might be significant and materially adverse to the Company’s shareholders. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on the Company’s behalf are expressly qualified by the factors described above. The Company assumes no obligation, and disclaims any obligation, to update information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including forward-looking statements, as a result of facts, events or circumstances after the date of this report, except as required by law in the normal course of its public disclosure practices. 1 PART I Item 1. BUSINESS MAIR is the holding company for Big Sky Transportation Co. (“Big Sky”), a regional air carrier based in Billings, Montana. As of March 31, 2007, MAIR was also the holding company for Mesaba Aviation, Inc. (“Mesaba”), a regional air carrier based in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The Company’s consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MAIR and Big Sky, as well as Mesaba until Mesaba’s bankruptcy filing on October 13, 2005 (the “Petition Date”). All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. As discussed below, the accounts of Mesaba have been deconsolidated from the Company’s consolidated financial statements effective as of the Petition Date. Mesaba filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code (the “Bankruptcy Code”) in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Minnesota (the “Bankruptcy Court”) on the Petition Date, after which Mesaba operated its business as a debtor-in-possession pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code. Mesaba filed its plan of reorganization on January 22, 2007, which provided for Mesaba to exit bankruptcy as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Northwest Airlines, Inc. (“Northwest”). The plan of reorganization was approved by the Bankruptcy Court on April 9, 2007. On April 24, 2007, the plan of reorganization became effective and Mesaba exited bankruptcy as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Northwest, and, therefore, is no longer owned by MAIR. As a result, Mesaba’s financial statements for fiscal 2007 are reported in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 18” on a condensed basis. Due to Mesaba’s bankruptcy and the uncertainties surrounding the nature, timing, and specifics of the bankruptcy proceedings, MAIR deconsolidated Mesaba’s financial results effective as of the Petition Date. As a result, Mesaba’s assets and liabilities have been removed from the Company’s consolidated balance sheets as of the Petition Date and through March 31, 2007. Mesaba’s results of operations have been removed from the Company’s consolidated results of operations and cash flows since the Petition Date, but continue to be included in such consolidated financial statements for periods prior to the Petition Date. MAIR has accounted for Mesaba’s financial results under the equity method of accounting since Mesaba’s bankruptcy filing on October 13, 2005. In accordance with Accounting Principles Board (“APB”) Opinion No. 18, The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock, MAIR evaluated whether its investment in Mesaba had experienced an other-than-temporary impairment as of March 31, 2006. MAIR’s evaluation utilized a market and income approach, including a discounted cash flow analysis. After analyzing Mesaba’s actual losses in fiscal 2006, projected losses in fiscal 2007 as it transitioned to a Saab-only operation, Mesaba’s five-year Saab business plan and Mesaba’s liabilities subject to compromise as of March 31, 2006, MAIR concluded that its remaining investment in Mesaba had experienced an other-than-temporary impairment. Accordingly, effective March 31, 2006, MAIR recorded an $8.9 million impairment charge to write off its remaining equity investment in Mesaba. The impairment charge was recorded in “Impairment and other charges” in the fiscal 2006 consolidated statement of operations. As of March 31, 2007, Mesaba reported a net loss of $71.3 million. MAIR did not record any additional losses in its consolidated financial statements due to MAIR not having any further obligations to fund any of Mesaba’s additional losses. The provisions of Statement of Position 90-7, Financial Reporting by Entities in Reorganization Under the Bankruptcy Code (“SOP 90-7”), applied to Mesaba’s financial statements while Mesaba operated under the provisions of Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. SOP 90-7 does not change the application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) in the preparation of financial statements. However, SOP 90-7 does require that the financial statements, for periods including and subsequent to the filing of the Chapter 11 petition, distinguish transactions and events that are directly associated with the reorganization from the ongoing operations of the business. See “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 18” for the condensed financial statements of Mesaba presented in accordance with SOP 90-7 on a stand-alone basis as of 2 March 31, 2007 and 2006, and its results of operations for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 2007. Since the Petition Date, intercompany balances between MAIR and Mesaba have not been eliminated. As of March 31, 2007 and 2006, MAIR had an intercompany payable to Mesaba of $0.8 million and $0.1 million, respectively, and Mesaba had equal intercompany amounts receivable from MAIR. During the third quarter of fiscal 2007, MAIR received $5.5 million in tax refunds related to net operating loss (“NOL”) carryback claims for fiscal 2006 and 2005, of which $2.9 million was payable to Mesaba in accordance with the Company’s tax sharing agreement. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, MAIR, Mesaba and the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) reached a settlement regarding Mesaba’s accounting for per diem allowances during fiscal years 2001 through 2004. Under the settlement agreement MAIR agreed to pay the IRS $1.7 million in taxes and interest on behalf of Mesaba for adjustments to taxable income for the reclassification of per diem amounts for fiscal years 2002 and 2003. The IRS adjustment and NOL carryback for fiscal 2004 created an additional $0.2 million receivable from Mesaba to MAIR. The tax return for fiscal 2005 was amended to incorporate the IRS adjustments and resulted in a net additional $0.2 million receivable from Mesaba to MAIR. As a result of the April 2007 settlement of MAIR’s proof of claim in Mesaba’s bankruptcy proceedings, MAIR may be responsible for certain of Mesaba’s tax obligations incurred through April 24, 2007, the effective date of Mesaba’s plan of reorganization, for those states in which MAIR and Mesaba historically filed a unitary tax return. Although management does not believe there is any remaining exposure, under the settlement between MAIR and Mesaba, Mesaba agreed to relinquish its right to the $0.8 million intercompany balance so that MAIR can use these funds to pay any Mesaba tax obligations that taxing authorities seek to collect from MAIR. Operations Big Sky operates as a regional air carrier based in Billings, Montana, providing scheduled passenger, freight, express package and charter services. As of March 31, 2007, Big Sky provided scheduled air service to 18 communities in Montana, Colorado, Idaho, Illinois, Oregon, Wyoming and Wisconsin. Big Sky operates daily scheduled flights providing interline and online connecting services and local market services. Big Sky also has code-sharing agreements with Alaska Airlines, Horizon Air, US Air and Northwest, where its services are marketed jointly with those air carriers for connecting flights. In April 2007, Big Sky began operations for Delta Air Lines, Inc. (“Delta”) serving communities to and from Boston, Massachusetts, as a Delta Connection carrier. As of April 8, 2007, Big Sky provided Delta Connection service to six cities in New York, Maine and Massachusetts with a fleet of three Beechcraft 1900D aircraft. During the remainder of fiscal year 2008, Big Sky is scheduled to increase this operation by adding five additional aircraft and providing service to other similar communities. Big Sky participates in the Essential Air Service (“EAS”) program with the Department of Transportation (“DOT”). The EAS program subsidizes air carriers to provide air service to designated rural communities throughout the country that could not otherwise economically justify that service based on their passenger traffic. The DOT pays EAS subsidies for each departure in a covered market. During the years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Big Sky recognized revenue from EAS subsidies of $7.9 million, $8.0 million, and $7.3 million, respectively. Regulations Pursuant to Federal aviation laws, the DOT and the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) have certain regulatory authority over the operations of all air carriers. The jurisdiction of the FAA extends primarily to the safety and operational provisions of the Federal Aviation Act, while the responsibility of the DOT involves principally the regulation of certain economic aspects of airline operations. FAA Regulation Big Sky holds an air carrier certificate issued by the FAA permitting Big Sky to conduct flight operations in compliance with Federal Aviation Regulations, which are the same regulatory requirements applicable to major airlines. The FAA regulations to which Big Sky is subject are extensive and include, among other items, regulation of aircraft maintenance and operations, equipment, ground facilities, dispatch, communications, training, weather 3 observation, flight personnel and other matters affecting air safety. To ensure compliance with its regulations, the FAA requires airlines to obtain operating, airworthiness and other certificates that are subject to suspension or revocation for cause. Big Sky holds all certificates necessary for its operations. Under FAA regulations, Big Sky has established, and the FAA has approved, maintenance programs for the aircraft it operates. These programs provide for the ongoing maintenance of Big Sky’s aircraft, ranging from frequent routine inspections to major overhauls. Big Sky’s aircraft require various levels of maintenance or “checks” and periodically undergo complete overhauls. Maintenance programs are monitored closely by the FAA, with FAA representatives routinely present at the airline’s maintenance facilities. The FAA issues Airworthiness Directives (“ADs”), which mandate changes to an air carrier’s maintenance program. These ADs, which include requirements for structural modifications to certain aircraft, are issued to ensure that the nation’s transport aircraft fleet remains airworthy. Big Sky is currently, and expects to remain, in compliance with all applicable requirements under all ADs and FAA approved maintenance programs. DOT Regulation Big Sky holds a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity issued by the DOT under federal aviation laws. As a certificated carrier, Big Sky is required to file quarterly reports with the DOT, including a report of aircraft operating expenses and related statistics. Transportation Security Administration Regulation In response to the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, Congress enacted the Aviation and Transportation Security Act of 2001 (the “ATSA”). The ATSA created the Transportation Security Administration (the “TSA”) to oversee aviation and airport security. Among other security measures, the ATSA enhanced background checks, provided for federal air marshals aboard flights, improved flight deck security, enhanced airline crew security training, improved training of security screening personnel and enhanced airport perimeter security. Railway Labor Act Big Sky’s relations with its labor unions are governed by the Railway Labor Act (the “RLA”). Comprehensive provisions are set forth in the RLA establishing the right of airline employees to organize and bargain collectively and imposing a duty upon air carriers and their employees to exert every reasonable effort to make and maintain collective bargaining agreements. The RLA contains detailed procedures which must be exhausted before a lawful work stoppage may occur, including a formal declaration of an impasse by the National Mediation Board. Environmental Regulations Big Sky is subject to regulation under various environmental laws and regulations, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980. In addition, many state and local governments have adopted environmental laws and regulations to which Big Sky’s operations are subject. Environmental laws and regulations are administered by numerous federal and state agencies. Management of Big Sky believes that Big Sky is in compliance with standards for aircraft exhaust emissions and fuel storage facilities issued by the Environmental Protection Agency and state and local agencies. Other Regulations Under the Noise Control Act of 1972 and the Aviation Safety and Noise Abatement Act of 1979, the FAA has authority to monitor and regulate aircraft engine noise. Management of Big Sky believes that Big Sky’s aircraft comply with or are exempt from such regulations. Insurance The Company carries the types of insurance customary in the airline industry, including coverage for public liability, passenger liability, property damage, aircraft loss or damage, baggage and cargo liability, war risk, directors’ and officers’ liability and workers’ compensation. Big Sky was given the option under the ATSA to purchase certain third-party war risk liability insurance from the United States government on an interim basis at rates that are more favorable than those available from the private market. Big Sky has purchased this insurance from the FAA as provided under the ATSA. 4 Competition The airline industry is highly competitive as a result of the Airline Deregulation Act of 1978 (the “Deregulation Act”), which generally increased competition by eliminating restrictions on fares and route selection. The Deregulation Act also contributed to the withdrawal of national and major carriers from short-haul markets by allowing them to more easily obtain additional long-haul routes, which can be served more efficiently and profitably by larger jet aircraft. Elimination of barriers to entry into new markets, however, also created greater potential for competing service by other carriers operating small, fuel-efficient aircraft on short-haul routes serving small and medium-sized cities. Big Sky competes with other regional airlines on most routes it serves. Big Sky also faces competition from regional carriers offering service to alternative hubs for connecting flights. Other carriers, including major carriers, can at any time institute competing service on routes served by Big Sky. Competitive factors in the airline industry generally include fares, frequency and dependability of service, convenience of flight schedules, type of aircraft flown, airports served, relationships with travel agents and efficiency and reliability of reservations systems and ticketing services. The compatibility of flight schedules with those of other airlines and the ability to offer through fares and convenient inter-airline flight connections are also important competitive factors. Fuel Big Sky purchases its fuel under arrangements with several fuel suppliers. None of these arrangements provides protection from fluctuations in fuel prices and supply. Big Sky believes that its arrangements assure an adequate supply of fuel for current and future operations. In fiscal 2007, Big Sky did not purchase any fuel from Northwest. Big Sky purchased fuel from Northwest for $1.4 million and $1.7 million in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. Fares Big Sky generates its passenger revenues from passenger ticket sales through its own reservations center, through participation in Airline Reporting Corp., a clearinghouse for travel agencies, and through on-line e-ticketing via Big Sky’s website at www.bigskyair.com. Big Sky has ticketing and baggage agreements with all major airlines that serve its regions, which allow its services to be sold by those airlines. Big Sky establishes its passenger fares on a market-by-market basis utilizing a combination of factors, including the cost of providing the service based upon projected passenger levels, the competitive price of alternative means of transportation (including both air and surface) and the distance between markets. Aircraft Maintenance The maintenance performed on Big Sky’s aircraft can be divided into two general categories: routine line maintenance and major overhauls. Line maintenance consists of routine daily and weekly scheduled maintenance checks on aircraft, including pre-flight, daily, weekly and overnight checks and any diagnostic and routine repairs. Big Sky employs its own aircraft, avionics and engine maintenance staffs that perform substantially all routine line maintenance to the aircraft and engines. Major overhauls on Big Sky’s fleets, including airframes, engines and other rotable parts, are performed internally or at FAA authorized facilities. Airport and Terminal Services Big Sky leases airport counter, baggage and ramp space for ground services and customer services at all of the cities it currently serves. Big Sky contracts for ground handling services from other airlines as needed. 5 Employees As of March 31, 2007, MAIR had six employees, and Big Sky employed 363 employees. Approximately 53% of Big Sky’s employees are represented by labor unions. Big Sky did not have any official work stoppages during fiscal 2007. Big Sky’s labor agreements are as follows: Approximate Number of Amendable Employee Group Employees Union Date Pilots 123 United Transportation Union December 2009 Mechanics 55 International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers August 2010 Dispatchers 16 United Transportation Union December 2009 Customer service agents 125 None Management / Administrative / Clerical 44 None 363 Cyclicality and Seasonality The airline industry generally is subject to cyclical moves in the economy. Because both personal discretionary travel and business travel may be expected to decline during periods of economic weakness, the airline industry tends to experience poorer financial results during such periods. Seasonal factors, primarily weather conditions and passenger demand, generally affect Big Sky’s monthly passenger boardings. Big Sky has historically shown a higher level of passenger boardings in the July through December period as compared with the January through June period for many of the cities served. As a result of such factors, Big Sky’s revenues and earnings have shown a corresponding increase during the July through December period. Recent Developments In December 2006, Delta announced that it had selected Big Sky to operate up to eight Beechcraft 1900D aircraft for Delta between Boston and various cities in the northeast United States. On March 12, 2007, Big Sky and Delta executed a Hosted Prorate Agreement (“HPA”) governing the Boston operation. Under the HPA, Delta is responsible for all ticketing and reservations for flights operated by Big Sky. Big Sky receives 100% of the ticketing revenue for all local traffic on Big Sky flights. Big Sky receives a prorated portion of the ticket revenue for passengers who connect through Boston to other Delta destinations. On the same date, Big Sky entered into an agreement with Champlain Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a CommutAir (“CommutAir”) to purchase eight Beechcraft 1900D aircraft and related spare parts with delivery scheduled during the last half of calendar 2007. Big Sky began its Boston operations in April 2007. Additionally, Big Sky was awarded a two-year contract from the DOT to provide EAS service between Massena, Ogdensburg and Watertown, New York to Boston, Massachusetts. This service began in April 2007, and is a part of Big Sky’s Delta operations. In January 2007, Mesaba and Northwest entered into a Stock Purchase and Reorganization Agreement (“SPRA”) by which Mesaba was to exit bankruptcy as a wholly-owned operating subsidiary of Northwest subject to the approval of Mesaba’s and Northwest’s respective bankruptcy courts. Northwest’s bankruptcy court approved the SPRA on February 27, 2007. The Bankruptcy Court approved Mesaba’s plan of reorganization on April 9, 2007. Mesaba’s plan of reorganization became effective on April 24, 2007, at which time Mesaba exited bankruptcy. Thus, on April 24, 2007, MAIR’s ownership of Mesaba ceased. Available Information The Company maintains a website at www.mairholdings.com. On its website, free of charge, the Company makes available its Annual Report on Form 10-K and links to the SEC website for other public filings. The Company’s 6 Code of Ethics for its Chief Executive Officer and financial officers is also available on its website. All information is also available in print upon written request to the Company’s General Counsel at 150 South Fifth Street, Suite 1360, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402. The Company is not including the information contained on or available through its website as a part of, or incorporating such information by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, some of which are described below. The Company could also be adversely affected by additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or believed to be material. Risks Related to Mesaba’s Bankruptcy If the final creditors’ claims allowed in Mesaba’s bankruptcy proceedings exceed $125 million, MAIR will not receive an equity distribution from Mesaba’s bankruptcy estate. As a part of Mesaba’s bankruptcy plan of reorganization, Northwest allowed Mesaba a $145 million claim in Northwest’s own bankruptcy case. This claim was subsequently sold to The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (“Goldman Sachs”) for approximately $125 million, and the proceeds of this sale were used to fund the liquidating trust established to make distributions to Mesaba’s creditors. MAIR has an allowed claim of approximately $6.2 million in Mesaba’s bankruptcy estate. In addition, Northwest assigned its $7.3 million allowed claim in Mesaba’s bankruptcy to MAIR. Therefore, MAIR could receive up to $13.5 million in distributions from Mesaba’s bankruptcy estate, and distributions for these claims will be made pro rata with other unsecured creditors’ claims. Mesaba estimated the total creditors’ claims in its bankruptcy case at approximately $94 million. If this estimate proves correct, after all creditors are paid, MAIR could receive up to an additional $31 million for its equity ownership of Mesaba. However, the failure of Mesaba’s bankruptcy estate to settle creditors’ claims could result in a larger portion of the liquidating trust being distributed to creditors. In such event, MAIR could receive a lower amount, or no amount at all, in distributions for its equity ownership of Mesaba. If MAIR is unable to find an alternate sublessee for Mesaba’s Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky Airport facility, MAIR may be required to accrue an additional $9.4 million of expense related to the bonds associated with the initial financing of the facility. Prior to its bankruptcy, Mesaba leased a facility at the Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport, but vacated the facility and ceased making the required lease payments on it in November 2005. In 1999, MAIR unconditionally guaranteed full and prompt payment of the ground lease and the bonds associated with the initial financing of the facility. In accordance with this guaranty, MAIR has made the required bond and ground lease payments due since November 2005. In April 2006, in exchange for the bondholders forbearing acceleration of the bonds, MAIR delivered a letter of credit to the bondholders to assure payment of the bonds. Subsequently, Mesaba rejected the facilities lease associated with the facility, but assumed and assigned the related ground lease to MAIR. The Airport Board consented to the assignment of the ground lease. MAIR and the bondholders are negotiating an amendment to the original forbearance that provides for the bondholders’ continued forbearance to allow MAIR a specified number of months to identify a new tenant and execute a sublease for the property. As of December 31, 2005, MAIR recorded a $4.8 million liability with respect to the lease and guaranty, which assumed that the facility would remain vacant for two years, during which time MAIR would continue to make the bond and lease payments, and that thereafter MAIR would be able to sublease the facility at a 20% discount. At March 31, 2007, this accrued liability totaled $3.4 million. If MAIR is unable to find an alternate sublessee for the facility, the bondholders have the right to call the bonds, and MAIR may be required to record an additional liability of up to $9.4 million. 7 Risks Related to the Company’s Business and Operation Big Sky’s success is dependent on its ability to obtain all necessary aircraft, engines, parts and related maintenance and support from various aircraft manufacturers and vendors. Big Sky is dependent on various aircraft manufacturers and other vendors to provide sufficient parts and related maintenance and support services on a timely basis. Additionally, Big Sky relies on various engine manufacturers for parts, repair and overhaul services and other types of support services. The failure of aircraft or engine manufacturers and other vendors to provide parts or related services on a timely, cost-effective basis could materially and adversely affect Big Sky’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Big Sky could incur significant costs if it experiences difficulty finding, training and retaining employees. Big Sky’s business is labor-intensive and requires large numbers of pilots, maintenance technicians and other personnel. The airline industry has from time to time experienced a shortage of qualified personnel, specifically pilots and maintenance technicians. In addition, as is common with most airline competitors, Big Sky has faced turnover of its employees. For example, Big Sky’s pilots and maintenance technicians may leave to work for larger airlines which generally offer higher salaries and more extensive benefit programs than regional airlines are financially able to offer. In addition, Big Sky will nearly double the size of its pilot workforce in fiscal 2008 as it expands its Boston operation with Delta. In the event of a significant increase in the turnover of employees in the above-mentioned positions, Big Sky would incur significantly higher training costs than would otherwise be necessary. Big Sky cannot provide assurance that it will be able to recruit, train and retain the qualified employees it requires to carry out its business plan. Big Sky could be adversely affected by the highly competitive nature of the airline industry. The airline industry is highly competitive, and Big Sky competes with low-cost airlines and regional carriers on many of its routes. Some of these competitors are significantly larger and possess greater resources than Big Sky. Moreover, any new entry in the markets Big Sky serves could lessen the economic benefits Big Sky derives from servicing these markets. MAIR’s ability to diversify within the airline industry may be limited by the terms of its side letter agreement with Mesaba’s pilots’ union. In January 2004, MAIR entered into a letter agreement with the Air Line Pilots Association, International (“ALPA”), Mesaba’s pilots’ union, that may limit the types of aircraft Big Sky may fly and may place additional requirements on MAIR if it forms or acquires any other airline subsidiary. In December 2006, MAIR notified ALPA that MAIR terminated the letter agreement. MAIR subsequently filed a lawsuit in federal district court in Houston, Texas requesting a declaratory judgment that the letter agreement contains no termination date and is, therefore, terminable-at-will. If MAIR does not prevail in this litigation, MAIR may not be able to expand Big Sky or otherwise diversify MAIR’s operations in the airline industry. Big Sky’s compliance with various regulations governing the airline industry can be costly, and Big Sky could be harmed if it fails to comply with such regulations. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal requirements that involve significant compliance costs that can result in increased costs for passengers and the airline. The FAA, DOT and TSA periodically propose additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges. Such measures could have the effect of raising ticket prices, reducing revenue, increasing costs or reducing demand for air travel. Big Sky expects to continue incurring expenses to comply with existing and future regulations. Moreover, if Big Sky fails to comply with applicable regulations, it may be subject to sanctions, including the following: · warning letters; · fines; · injunctions; 8 · orders relating to grounding of aircraft, inspection of aircraft, installation of new safety-related items and removal and replacement of certain aircraft parts; or · criminal prosecutions. Future terrorist attacks, other world events, general economic conditions and other factors beyond the Company’s control could substantially harm the Company. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and the prolonged unrest in the Middle East materially affected and continue to affect the airline industry. Concerns about further terrorist attacks have had a negative impact on air travel demand. In addition, security procedures introduced at airports since the attacks have increased the inconvenience of air travel, both in reality and in customer perception, leading to further reduction in demand. Finally, the continued rise in jet fuel prices has had an adverse economic effect on all airlines, including Big Sky. Additional terrorist attacks, the fear of such attacks, continued conflict in Iraq, Afghanistan or other countries or continued increases in fuel prices could further affect the airline industry and could cause general instability in financial markets. Because a substantial portion of air travel, including business travel, is discretionary, the industry tends to experience adverse financial results during general economic downturns. Soft economic conditions continue to put pressure on the profitability of the industry. Any general decline in passenger traffic may harm the Company’s business. Big Sky’s operations are also subject to delays caused by factors beyond Big Sky’s control, including air traffic congestion at airports, adverse weather conditions and increased security measures. Such delays frustrate passengers, reduce aircraft utilization and increase costs, all of which may affect profitability and harm the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Big Sky is increasingly dependent upon technology in its operations, and any failure of such technology could adversely affect it. Big Sky has made investments in technology to manage its operations. In particular, the systems operations control center, which oversees daily flight operations, is dependent on a number of technology systems to operate effectively. These technology systems may be vulnerable to various sources of interruption due to events beyond Big Sky’s control, including natural disasters, terrorist attacks, computer viruses and hackers. In addition, large-scale interruption in technology on which Big Sky depends, such as power, telecommunications or the Internet, could substantially disrupt Big Sky’s operations. Any airline accident in which Big Sky is involved could subject Big Sky to substantial liability and seriously harm the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. An accident involving Big Sky aircraft could result in injuries and loss of life and, therefore, result in significant claims from injured persons and surviving relatives. An accident could also result in substantial property damage, loss of aircraft from service and adverse publicity for the affected airline. The DOT requires airlines to carry liability insurance. Although Big Sky believes its liability insurance is in amounts and of the type generally consistent with industry practice, substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of insurance coverage would harm the Company’s business and financial results. Any resulting claims would also be costly to defend and could harm Big Sky’s reputation. Moreover, any aircraft accident, even if fully insured or not directly involving Big Sky, could cause a public perception that flying is less safe or reliable than other transportation alternatives, which could harm the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Company’s Stock Lack of sufficient aviation-related business opportunities or lack of shareholder support may preclude MAIR from implementing its diversification strategy. Following Mesaba’s exit from bankruptcy as a subsidiary of Northwest, MAIR’s only operating subsidiary is Big Sky. Additionally, MAIR has approximately $66 million of cash and investments at March 31, 2007. MAIR has 9 expressed its desire to continue to grow Big Sky’s operation and seek other business opportunities within the airline industry. Meanwhile, certain of MAIR’s shareholders have publicly stated their belief that MAIR should return its cash to its shareholders. MAIR has been reviewing various strategic alternatives for diversifying, and each alternative is weighed against the value of returning cash to MAIR’s shareholders. If MAIR is unable to identify acceptable diversification opportunities or if it is unable to obtain shareholder support for those opportunities it does identify, MAIR may return some or all of its cash to its shareholders. In such event, MAIR may effectively be precluded from pursuing any other strategic transactions. Future sales of the Company’s common stock by its shareholders could depress the price of the Company’s stock. Sales of a large number of shares of the Company’s common stock or the availability of a large number of shares for sale could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. As of March 31, 2007, the Company had 15,008,285 shares of common stock outstanding. Several of the Company’s shareholders own substantial blocks of the Company’s common stock. Future sales of these large blocks of the Company’s common stock could substantially depress the Company’s stock price. The Company’s stock price may continue to be volatile. In the past two fiscal years, the market price of the Company’s common stock has ranged from a low of $4.50 per share to a high of $10.23 per share. Because the Company’s stock is thinly traded, its market price is sensitive and may continue to experience substantial fluctuations due to a variety of factors, including the following: · failure of the Company’s operating results to meet analysts’ or investors’ expectations in any quarter; · securities analysts’ estimates; · material announcements by the Company or Big Sky’s competitors; · public sales of a substantial number of shares of the Company’s common stock; · regulatory actions; or · general market conditions. Anti-takeover provisions of the Company’s articles of incorporation and bylaws and of Minnesota law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control. The Company’s articles of incorporation and bylaws, along with Minnesota law, could discourage, delay or prevent persons from acquiring or attempting to acquire the Company. The Company’s articles of incorporation authorize the board of directors, without action by the Company’s shareholders, to designate and issue preferred stock in one or more series, with such rights, preferences and privileges as the board of directors shall determine. The Company’s articles of incorporation and bylaws also mandate a classified board of directors, which makes changing control of the board more difficult. The Company’s bylaws grant the board of directors the authority to adopt, amend or repeal all or any of such bylaws, subject to the power of the shareholders to change or repeal such bylaws. The Company’s bylaws also limit who may call meetings of the Company’s shareholders. As a public corporation, the Company is prohibited by the Minnesota Business Corporation Act, except under certain specified circumstances, from engaging in any merger, significant sale of stock or assets or business combination with any shareholder or group of shareholders who own at least 10% of the Company’s common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 10 