ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a dynamic environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. The following section describes some of the risks that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows; these are not necessarily listed in terms of their importance or level of risk. The announcement and pendency of our proposed Merger could adversely affect our business, financial results and operations. The announcement and pendency of the proposed Merger could cause disruptions in and create uncertainty surrounding our business, including affecting our relationships with our existing and future customers, suppliers and employees, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial results and operations, regardless of whether the Merger is completed. In particular, we could potentially lose important personnel as a result of the departure of employees who decide to pursue other opportunities in light of the proposed transaction. We could also potentially lose customers or suppliers, new customer or supplier contracts could be delayed or decreased and we may have difficulty in hiring new key employees. In addition, we have diverted, and will continue to divert, significant management resources towards the completion of the transaction, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are also subject to restrictions, without the consent of Parent, on the conduct of our business prior to the consummation of the Merger as provided in the Merger Agreement, including, among other things, certain restrictions on our ability to make certain capital expenditures, investments and acquisitions, sell, transfer or dispose of our assets, amend our organizational documents and incur indebtedness. These restrictions could prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities, result in our inability to respond effectively to competitive pressures, industry developments and future opportunities and may otherwise harm our business, financial results and operations. Failure to complete the proposed Merger could adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock. There is no assurance that the closing of the Merger will occur. Consummation of the Merger is subject to various conditions, including the adoption of the Merger Agreement by the holders of a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock, and certain other conditions, including, among other things, the absence of laws or judgments prohibiting or restraining the Merger and the receipt of certain regulatory approvals. We cannot predict with certainty whether and when any of these conditions will be satisfied. In addition, the Merger Agreement may be terminated under certain specified circumstances, including, but not limited to, a change in the recommendation of the board of directors of the Company or a termination of the Merger Agreement by the Company to enter into an agreement for a superior proposal, as defined in the Merger Agreement. If the Merger is not consummated, and there are no other parties willing and able to acquire us at a price of $46.25 per share or higher and on other terms acceptable to us, our stock price will likely decline as our stock has recently traded at prices based on speculation regarding a potential acquisition of the Company and more recently based on the proposed per share price for the Merger. Additionally, our costs of accessing funds in the debt and capital markets may continue for some period to be higher than before execution of the Merger Agreement as a result of credit rating downgrades that could occur after the announcement of the transaction. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the proposed Merger, as well as the diversion of management resources, for which we will have received little or no benefit if the closing of the Merger does not occur. Many of the fees and costs will be payable by us even if the Merger is not completed and may relate to activities that we would not have undertaken other than to consummate the Merger. A failed transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community. If the Merger Agreement is not adopted by our stockholders, or if the Merger is not consummated for any other reason, there can be no assurance that any other transaction acceptable to us will be offered or that our business, prospects or results of operations will not be adversely affected. Upon termination of the Merger Agreement by the Company or Parent under specified conditions, our remedy may be limited to receipt of a termination fee of $420 million from Parent, and under some circumstances, we would not be entitled to receive any termination fee. The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and our stock price. The Merger Agreement contains provisions that could discourage or make it difficult for a third party to acquire us prior to the completion of the proposed Merger. The Merger Agreement contains provisions that restrict our ability to entertain a third party proposal to acquire us. These provisions include the general prohibition after the Go-Shop Period End Date on our soliciting or engaging in discussions or negotiations regarding any alternative acquisition proposal, subject to certain exceptions, and the requirement that we pay a termination fee of $210 million (which amount is reduced to $140 million under specified conditions) if the Merger Agreement is terminated in specified circumstances. These provisions might discourage an otherwise-interested third party from considering or proposing to acquire us, even one that may be deemed of greater value than the proposed Merger to our stockholders. Furthermore, even if a third party elects to propose an acquisition, the concept of a termination fee may result in that third party offering a lower value to our stockholders than such third party might otherwise have offered. If the Merger is not completed or we are not otherwise acquired, we may consider other strategic alternatives which are subject to risks and uncertainties. If the Merger is not completed, the Board of Directors will review and consider various alternatives available to us, including, among others, continuing as a public company with no material changes to our business or capital structure, returning capital to stockholders, seeking a minority investment from a strategic or financial partner or attempting to implement a sale to either a financial or strategic buyer. These alternative transactions may involve various additional risks to our business, including, among others, distraction of our management team and associated expenses as described above in connection with the proposed Merger, our ability to consummate any such alternative transaction, the valuation assigned to our business in any such alternative transaction, our ability or a potential buyer’s ability to access capital on acceptable terms or at all and other variables which may adversely affect our operations. Weakened economic conditions and uncertainty could adversely affect our operating results. Our overall performance depends in part on worldwide economic conditions. As a result of continued sluggishness of major global economies, the United States and other key international regions continue to experience significant economic and financial market uncertainty, including concerns over sovereign debt levels, uncertainty about certain governments’ ability to repay such debt or address certain fiscal issues (such as the “sequestration” in the United States), significant unemployment, volatility in commodity prices and levels of inflation. The severity or length of time these economic and financial market concerns may persist is unknown. During challenging and uncertain economic times as well as periods of financial market instability and tight credit markets, many customers may delay or reduce technology purchases. Contract negotiations may become more protracted or difficult if customers institute additional internal approvals for software purchases or require more negotiation of contract terms and conditions. These economic conditions could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, difficulties in collection of accounts receivable or delayed payments, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. In addition, deterioration of the global credit markets could adversely impact our ability to complete sales of our solutions and services, including maintenance and support renewals, or the value of our financial assets. Any of these events would likely harm our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We may announce lower than expected revenue, bookings, earnings or operating cash flows due to inaccurate forecasts of sales or other trends in our business. If we fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, our stock price could decline substantially. Our ability to accurately and consistently predict revenue, bookings, earnings and operating cash flows within narrow ranges is weakened by two principal factors: • first, a significant portion of our transactions close during the final days of each quarter; this pattern is evident across product lines and among all sales channels; and • second, even after contracts have been executed, extensive analysis is required before the timing of revenue recognition can be reliably determined; this timing reflects both the complexity of the revenue recognition rules applicable to software and the effect that the various license types and other terms and conditions can have when these rules are applied. Numerous other factors, some listed below, also have the potential to adversely affect our financial results: • customers may defer or limit purchases as a result of reduced information technology budgets or reduced data processing capacity demand; • customers may require additional levels of internal approval prior to finalizing software purchases or renewals, which could lengthen the sales cycle and delay bookings and the resultant cash flows; • we may lose customers to our competitors or due to customer consolidation; • we may be required to defer more license revenue than we anticipate if our mix of complex transactions or contracts with terms and conditions requiring deferral of license revenue is greater than we plan for; • we may be unable to adapt our solutions to customers’ needs in a market space defined by constant technological change; • we may be unable to satisfy increased customer demands for our technical support services which may adversely affect our relationships with our customers; • the timing of orders and delivery of products to our customers and channel partners is uncertain; • we may experience losses on investments, foreign currency exchange contracts or other losses from financial instruments we hold that are exposed to market losses; • we may experience unexpected changes or significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; 9 Table of Contents • tax rates in jurisdictions in which we operate may change; • we may experience higher than expected operating expenses; • weighted average shares outstanding may increase unexpectedly due to much higher than expected exercises of stock options or a sudden and significant increase in our stock price causing our fully diluted weighted average shares outstanding to increase, either of which could cause reported earnings per share to decline; • we may be affected by the timing of large, multi-product transactions or become dependent upon such transactions; • our pricing and distribution terms and/or those of our competitors may change; and • our business may be adversely affected as a result of the threat of significant external events that increase global economic uncertainty. Investors should not rely on the results of prior periods as an indication of our future performance. Our operating expense levels are based, in significant part, on our expectations of future revenue. If we have a shortfall in revenue in any given quarter, we will not be able to proportionally reduce our operating expenses for that quarter in response to such a shortfall. Therefore, any significant shortfall in revenue will likely have an immediate adverse effect on our operating results for that quarter and could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, our ability to maintain or expand our operating margins may be limited given economic and competitive conditions, and we therefore could be reliant upon our ability to continually identify and implement operational improvements in order to maintain or reduce expense levels. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or expand our current operating margins in the future. Our cloud and SaaS offerings bring new business and operational risks. We have introduced multiple new products and technology initiatives to provide systems management solutions in the emerging area of cloud computing. We include in this category our SaaS offerings. Our SaaS offerings provide our customers with existing and new software management through a hosted service as opposed to traditional software deployments. There can be no assurance that SaaS revenue will be significant in the future despite our levels of investment. There is a risk that our SaaS offerings may reduce demand for licenses and maintenance of our traditional software products which could impact our revenue. Additionally, margins associated with our SaaS offerings are generally lower than margins associated with our on-premise solutions. Our customers may not renew their subscriptions after the expiration of their subscription agreements and in fact, some customers elect not to do so. In addition, our customers may opt for a lower-priced edition of our offerings or for fewer subscriptions. We have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer subscription renewals, so we cannot accurately predict customer renewal rates. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our services and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. If we experience a decline in the renewal rates for our customers or they opt for lower-priced editions of our offerings or fewer subscriptions, our operating results may be adversely impacted. There is also a risk that our internal development and customer support teams could find it difficult or costly to support both traditional software installed by customers and software delivered as a service. To the extent that our new SaaS offerings are defective or there are disruptions to our services, demand for our SaaS offerings could diminish and we could be subject to substantial liability. In addition, interruptions or delays in service from our third party service delivery hosts could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business. If we or our third party service delivery hosts experience security breaches and unauthorized access is obtained to a customer’s data or our data, our services may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or stop using our services and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure and liabilities. Our success in the emerging area of cloud computing depends on organizations and customers perceiving technological and operational benefits and cost savings associated with the increasing adoption of virtual infrastructure solutions for on-premise data centers as well as for cloud computing and end user computing. Concerns about security, privacy, availability, data integrity, retention and ownership may negatively impact the rate of adoption of cloud computing. Cloud computing environments are complex and the deployment of our systems management solutions in the cloud may require additional professional services and implementation services for which we may not have the ability to provide at an appropriate margin. In the cloud, our products are dependent upon third party hardware, software and cloud hosting vendors, all of which must interoperate for end users to achieve their computing goals. Since the cloud computing market is in the early stages of development, we expect other companies to enter this market and to introduce their own initiatives that may compete with, or not be compatible with, our cloud solutions. Additionally, operating margins on our new initiatives may be lower than those we have achieved in our more mature product markets, and our new initiatives may not generate sufficient revenue to recoup our investments in them. If any of these events were to occur, it could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents We may have difficulty achieving our cash flow from operations goals. Our quarterly cash flow from operations is and has been volatile. If our cash generated from operations in some future period is materially less than the market expects, our stock price could decline. Factors that could adversely affect our cash flow from operations in the future include: lengthening sales cycles; a reduction in the size of transactions; the timing of transaction completion, billings and associated cash collections within a particular period; longer customer payment terms; an increase in late payments by customers; an increase in uncollectible accounts receivable; increased expenses; reduced net earnings; a significant shift from multi-year committed contracts to short-term contracts; a reduced ability to transfer finance receivables to third parties; an increase in contracts where internal costs such as sales commissions are paid upfront but payments from customers are collected over time; reduced renewal rates for maintenance; an increase in cash taxes; payments for legal actions, costs, fees or settlements; restructuring payments; the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates; and reduced yields on investments and cash equivalents. Maintenance revenue could decline. Maintenance revenue is an important source of recurring revenue, and we invest significant resources to provide maintenance and support services to our customers. Maintenance fees generally increase as the licensed capacity increases; consequently, we generally receive higher absolute maintenance fees with new license and maintenance agreements and as existing customers license our products for additional processing capacity. Price competition on enterprise transactions can lead to increased discounting for higher levels of supplemental processing capacity; the maintenance fees on a per unit of capacity basis are typically reduced in enterprise license agreements. In addition, customers are generally entitled to reduced annual maintenance fees for entering into long-term maintenance contracts. Declines in our license bookings, increases in the proportion of long-term maintenance contracts and/or increased discounting could lead to declines in our maintenance revenue growth rates. Should customers migrate from systems and applications which our products support, utilize alternatives to our products, including maintenance-free solutions such as on demand, or become dissatisfied with our maintenance services, increased cancellations could lead to declines in our maintenance revenue. As maintenance revenue makes up a substantial portion of our total revenue, any decline in our maintenance revenue could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our professional services business is growing but could impact our overall margins. Our professional services business has been growing as our overall bookings have grown and customers have contracted with us to provide implementation and other value-adding services. There are a number of risks associated with our professional services business which could impact our ability to deliver high quality services and which could impact our overall profit margin. These include the availability and our ability to engage quality labor resources, both as employees and as third party contractors, incremental costs associated with third party contractors, the complexity of services engagements, contractual risks, pricing and bidding risks and potential cost overruns. If we are not able to effectively manage the growth of our professional services business, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our operating results, including our profit margin. Competition from large, powerful multi-line and small, agile single-line competitors could have a negative impact on our business and financial results. Some of our largest competitors, including IBM, CA and HP, have significant scale advantages. With scale comes a large installed base of customers in particular market niches, as well as the ability to develop and market software competitive with ours. Some of these competitors can also bundle hardware, software and services together, which is a disadvantage for us since we are not a hardware provider and have fewer services offerings. Competitive products are also offered by numerous independent software companies that specialize in specific aspects of the highly fragmented software industry. Some, like Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft), Oracle Corporation (Oracle), and SAP AG (SAP) are the leading developers and vendors in their specialized markets. In addition, new companies enter the market on a frequent and regular basis, offering products that compete with some individual products offered by us. Market entrants utilizing alternative business models such as SaaS, cloud computing or open source software also compete against us. As the use of open source software becomes more widespread, certain open source technology could become competitive with our proprietary technology, which could cause sales of our products to decline or force us to reduce the fees we charge for our products. Other data center vendors may expand into systems management to complement their existing offerings. Additionally, many customers historically have developed their own products that compete with those offered by us. Competition from any of these sources can result in price reductions or displacement of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents Industry consolidation could affect prices or demand for our products. The IT industry and the market for our systems management products are very competitive due to a variety of factors. As the enterprise systems software market matures, it is consolidating. This trend could create opportunities for larger companies, such as IBM, HP, Microsoft, Oracle and other large enterprise software and hardware companies, to increase their market share through the acquisition of companies that dominate certain lucrative market niches or that have loyal installed customer bases. In doing so, these competitors may be able to reduce prices on software that competes with our solutions, in part by leveraging their larger economies of scale. Consolidation also may permit competitors to offer a broader suite of products and more comprehensive bundled solutions, including hardware, software and services. We expect this trend towards consolidation to continue as companies attempt to maintain or extend their market and competitive positions in the rapidly changing software industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. This industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. This could lead to more variability in our operating results due to lengthening of the customer evaluation process, increased pricing pressure and/or loss of business to these larger competitors, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our products must remain compatible with ever-changing operating and database environments. IBM, HP, Microsoft and Oracle are by far the largest suppliers of systems and database software and, in some cases, are the manufacturers of the computer hardware systems used by most of our customers. Historically, operating and database system developers have modified or introduced new operating systems, database systems, systems software and computer hardware. Such new products could incorporate features which perform functions currently performed by our products or could require substantial modification of our products to maintain compatibility with these companies’ hardware or software. There can be no assurance that we will be able to adapt our products and our business to changes introduced by hardware manufacturers and operating and database system software developers. Operating and database system software developers have in the past provided us with early access to versions of their software, before making such software generally available, to have input into the functionality and to ensure that we can adapt our software to exploit new functionality in these systems. Some companies, however, may adopt more restrictive policies in the future or impose unfavorable terms and conditions for such access. These restrictions may result in higher research and development costs for us in connection with the enhancement and modification of our existing products and the development of new products. Failure to adapt our products in a timely manner to changes in operating and database systems, or any product quality and performance issues with the underlying databases or operating systems resulting in degradation of our products’ quality and performance, could influence customer decisions to forego the use of our products in favor of those with comparable functionality offered by competitors or within the operating system and database functionality itself which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Future product development is dependent upon access to and reliability of third party software products and open source software. Certain of our software products contain components developed and maintained by third party software vendors. We expect that we may have to incorporate software from third party vendors in our future products. We also incorporate open source software in certain of our software products. We may not be able to replace the functionality provided by the third party or open source software currently offered with our products if that software becomes obsolete, defective, non-compliant with third party patent restrictions or incompatible with future versions of our products or is not adequately maintained or updated, or if our relationship with the third party vendor terminates. In addition, we must carefully monitor and manage our use of, and compliance with the licensing requirements of, open source software. Any significant interruption in the availability of these third party software products on commercially acceptable terms, defects in these products, non-compliance with third party patent restrictions or our inability to comply with the licensing terms of either third party commercial software or open source software could delay development of future products or enhancement of future products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Future product development is dependent on adequate research and development resources. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to develop new products and enhancements to our existing products. This is particularly true as we further expand our cloud and SaaS offerings and capabilities. Maintaining adequate research and development resources to meet the demands of the market is essential, and failure to do so could present an advantage to our competitors. If we are unable to develop products due to certain constraints, such as high employee turnover, lack of management ability or a lack of other development resources, including through third party outsourcing firms, our competitiveness could be harmed. 12 Table of Contents Discovery of errors in our software could adversely affect our earnings. The software products we offer are inherently complex. Despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that errors will not be found in current versions, new versions or enhancements of our products after commencement of commercial delivery. If new or existing customers have difficulty deploying our products or require significant amounts of customer support, our operating margins could be harmed. Moreover, we could face possible claims and higher development costs if our software contains undetected errors or if we fail to meet our customers’ expectations. With our BSM strategy, these risks increase because we are combining already complex products to create solutions that are even more complicated than the aggregation of their product components. Significant technical challenges could also arise with our products because our customers purchase and deploy our products across a variety of computer platforms and integrate them with a number of third party software applications and databases. These combinations increase our risk further because in the event of a system-wide failure, it may be difficult to determine which product is at fault; thus, we may be harmed by the failure of another supplier’s products. As a result of the foregoing, we could experience loss of or delay in revenue and loss of market share; loss of customers; damage to our reputation; failure to achieve market acceptance; diversion of development resources; increased service and warranty costs; legal actions by customers against us which could, whether or not successful, increase costs and distract our management; and increased insurance costs. We are subject to risks associated with our indirect distribution channels. A portion of our revenue is derived from the sale of our products and services through indirect distribution channels such as resellers, systems integrators and strategic partners. In addition, we maintain strategic agreements with hardware vendors permitting them to sell our software solutions as part of their hardware systems. Conducting business through indirect distribution channels presents a number of risks, including: • our indirect channel partners typically can cease marketing our products and services with limited or no notice and with little or no penalty; • we may not be able to replace existing or recruit additional indirect channel partners if we lose any of our existing ones; • our existing indirect channel partners may not be able to effectively sell new products and services that we may introduce; • we do not have direct control over the business practices, compliance programs and processes or risk management policies adopted by our indirect channel partners and they may engage in inappropriate practices without our knowledge which could result in penalties and/or reputational damage to us; • our indirect channel partners may not be able to deliver the same quality or standard of services that we do which may require us to engage with their customers at a direct cost to us to protect our product and services standards and reputation; • our indirect channel partners may also offer competitive products and services through acquisition or internal development and as such, may not give priority to the marketing of our products and services as compared to our competitors’ products; • we may face conflicts between the activities of our indirect channels and our direct sales and marketing activities; • our indirect channel partners may experience financial difficulties that may impact their ability to market our products and may lead to delays, or even default, in their payment obligations to us; and • we also depend on our indirect channel partners for accurate and timely reporting of our channel sales; any disruption, delay or under-reporting by our indirect channel partners could have an adverse effect on our bookings, revenues and cash flows. Changes to our sales organization can be disruptive and may negatively impact our results of operations. From time to time, we make significant changes in the organizational structure and compensation plans of our sales organizations, which may increase the risk of sales personnel turnover. To the extent that we experience turnover within our direct sales force or sales management, there is a risk that the productivity of our sales force would be negatively impacted which could lead to revenue declines. Turnover within our sales force can cause disruption in sales cycles leading to delay or loss of business. In addition, it can take time to implement new sales management plans and to effectively recruit and train new sales representatives. We review and modify our compensation plans for the sales organization periodically and will be modifying our sales compensation plans for fiscal 2014. Changes to our sales compensation plans could make it difficult for us to attract and retain top sales talent. 13 Table of Contents We are subject to risks related to business combinations. As part of our overall strategy, we have acquired or invested in, and likely will continue to acquire or invest in, complementary companies, products and technologies. Risks commonly encountered in such transactions include: • we may not retain and integrate key technical, sales and managerial personnel; • we may not assimilate the personnel, culture and operations of the combined companies, including back-office functions and systems, such as accounting, human resources and others, into our own back-office functions and systems; • we may not be able to integrate the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies; • our ongoing business could be disrupted, including management being distracted from other objectives, opportunities and risks; • we may not maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful integration of acquired businesses; • our policies, procedures and controls may not be applied to the acquired entity in a timely manner following the acquisition; • relationships with the acquired entity’s customers, partners or vendors might degrade, creating challenges for us to meet the objectives of the acquisition; • our pre-acquisition due diligence may fail to identify technology issues, such as problems with software code, architecture or functionality, intellectual property ownership issues, employment or management issues, customer or partner issues, errors or irregularities in the accounting or financial reporting of the target, unknown liabilities of the target, legal contingencies, compliance failures or other issues; • revenue from acquired companies, products and technologies may not meet our expectations; • our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases; similarly, existing stockholders could be diluted and earnings per share may decrease if we were to issue a significant amount of equity securities as full or partial consideration in future acquisitions; and • our chosen strategy leading to the acquisition may not be the appropriate strategy or our resources may be better utilized developing technology via internal product development. In order for us to maximize the return on our investments in acquired companies, the products of these entities must be integrated with our existing products and strategies. These integrations can be difficult and unpredictable, especially given the complexity of software and that acquired technology is typically developed independently and may not have been designed to integrate with our products. The difficulties are compounded when the products involved are well-established because compatibility with the existing base of installed products must be preserved. Successful integration also requires coordination of different development and engineering teams. This too can be difficult and unpredictable because of possible cultural conflicts and different opinions on technical decisions and product roadmaps. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our product integration efforts or that we will realize the expected benefits. Changes in tax law, changes in our effective tax rate or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability and financial condition. We carry out our business operations through entities in the United States and multiple foreign jurisdictions. As such, we are required to file corporate income tax returns that are subject to United States, state and foreign tax laws. The United States, state and foreign tax liabilities are determined, in part, by the amount of operating profit generated in these different taxing jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate, earnings and operating cash flows could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of operating profits generated in countries with higher statutory tax rates as well as by the positioning of our cash balances globally. Our effective tax rate is also impacted by the portion of our foreign earnings in jurisdictions having different corporate tax rates than the United States when we deem such earnings to be indefinitely reinvested in such jurisdictions. If we were to determine that these foreign earnings were not indefinitely reinvested, our effective tax rate, earnings and operating cash flows could be adversely impacted. Similarly, if statutory tax rates or tax bases were to increase or if changes in tax laws, regulations or interpretations were made that impact us directly, our effective tax rate, earnings and operating cash flows could be adversely impacted. We are also required to evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets. This evaluation requires that our management assess the positive and negative evidence regarding sources of future taxable income. If management’s assessment regarding the realizability of our deferred tax assets changes, we will be required to increase our valuation allowance, which will negatively impact our effective tax rate and earnings. We are also subject to routine corporate income tax audits in multiple jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes includes amounts intended to satisfy income tax assessments that may result from the examination of our corporate tax returns that have been filed in these jurisdictions. The amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of these examinations could be materially different from the amounts included in the provision for income taxes and result in additional tax expense and operating cash outflows. 14 Table of Contents We must protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyrights, patents, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual procedures to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to misappropriate, copy or pirate certain portions of our products or to reverse engineer or obtain and use technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. Also, there can be no assurance that our intellectual property rights would survive a legal challenge as to their validity or provide significant protection for us, and any such legal actions could become costly. In addition, the laws or practices of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized third party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position and revenue. Third parties may claim that our software products or services infringe on their intellectual property rights, exposing us to litigation that, regardless of merit, may be costly to defend. Our success and ability to compete are also dependent upon our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. Third parties may claim that our current or future products or services infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Any such claim, with or without merit, could have a significant effect on our business and financial results. Any future third party claim could be time consuming, divert management’s attention from our business operations and result in substantial litigation costs, including any monetary damages and customer indemnification obligations, which may result from such claims. In addition, parties making these claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief affecting our ability to license the products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property. As a result of such claims, we may be required to obtain licenses from third parties, develop alternative technology or redesign our products. We cannot be sure that such licenses would be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If a successful claim is made against us and we are unable to develop or license alternative technology, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We are subject to risks related to global operations. We are a global company that conducts sales, sales support, professional services, product development and support, marketing and product distribution services from numerous offices throughout the world. We are subject to a variety of risks and challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, including: • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, including compliance with local labor and employment laws; • non-compliance with our code of conduct or other corporate policies; • longer payment cycles; • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; • adverse tax consequences; • adverse impact of inflation; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • restrictions on our ability to access cash in foreign jurisdictions; • impact from volatile or sluggish local economies or global macroeconomic conditions; 15 Table of Contents • loss of proprietary information, including intellectual property, due to piracy, misappropriation or weaker laws regarding intellectual property protection; • the need to localize our products; • lack of appropriate local infrastructure to carry out operations; • political unrest, war or terrorism, particularly in areas in which we have employees and facilities; • potential vulnerability to computer system, internet or other systemic attacks, such as denial of service, viruses or other malware which may be caused by criminals, terrorists or other sophisticated organizations; • compliance with a wide variety of complex laws, regulations and treaties including unexpected changes in (or new) legislative or regulatory requirements, early termination of contracts with government agencies, audits, investigations, sanctions or penalties; • licenses, tariffs and other trade barriers; and • natural disaster, disease or other extraordinary events impacting business continuity. U.S. and international laws and regulations that apply to our global operations are complex and increase our cost of doing business. U.S. laws and regulations applicable to our international operations include the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and export control laws. International laws and regulations include local laws which also prohibit bribery, including commercial bribery (including the UK Bribery Act), and corrupt payments to governmental officials, as well as labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, import and trade restrictions and export requirements. Additionally, our operations are subject to complex laws, rules and regulations relating to the collection, use and protection of data, and new laws in this area have been passed by several jurisdictions, while other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. We have adopted and implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with U.S. laws and the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in criminal or civil fines against us, our officers or our employees; restrictions on the conduct of our business; harm to our brand or reputation; and delays in potential acquisitions. Such violations could result in penalties and other restrictions that may, under certain circumstances, materially and adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. The unique risks of operating in a particular country may require us to adopt a different business approach or strategy in that particular country which could increase our cost of doing business or limit the type of business activities we can perform in such country. In addition, if we suffer a business disruption due to any of the risks listed above and do not have in place or are not able to implement adequate response plans, our ability to support customers and maintain normal business operations for a significant length of time could be hindered such that our competitive position could be significantly impacted. Furthermore, our financial condition could be adversely impacted if our costs to recover escalate due to such recovery occurring over a protracted period. We maintain a significant presence in India, Israel and other emerging market countries, conducting substantial software development and support, marketing operations, IT operations and certain financial operations in those locations. Accordingly, we are directly affected by economic, political, physical and electrical infrastructure and military conditions in these countries. Any major hostilities or the interruption or curtailment of trade between these countries and their present trading partners could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We maintain contingency and business continuity plans for all significant locations, and to date, various regional conflicts or other local economic or political issues have not caused any major adverse impact on our operations in these countries. Should we be unable to conduct operations in these regions in the future, and our contingency and business continuity plans are unsuccessful, our business could be adversely affected. Furthermore, as the software and technology labor market in these countries has developed at a rapid pace, with many multi-national companies competing for talent, there is a risk that wage and attrition rates will rise faster than we have anticipated which could lead to operational issues. We face exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. We conduct significant transactions, including intercompany transactions, in currencies other than the United States dollar or the functional operating currency of the transactional entities, and our global subsidiaries maintain significant net assets that are denominated in currencies other than the functional operating currencies of these entities. Accordingly, changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the United States dollar can significantly affect our revenues and operating results due to transactional and translational remeasurement that is reflected in our earnings. While we maintain a hedging program to hedge certain transactional exposures in foreign currencies in an attempt to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risks, this program may not fully mitigate all such risk. We may also experience foreign currency exchange rate gains and losses where it is not cost effective to hedge foreign currencies in part or in full. Additionally, our efforts under this program may not be successful if we were to fail to properly detect or manage foreign currency exchange rate exposures, which could also adversely impact our operating results and operating cash flows. 16 Table of Contents We may lose key personnel, may not be able to hire enough qualified personnel or may fail to integrate replacement personnel. Much of our future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including sales, technical and management resources and the availability of skilled contract labor. Experienced personnel in the information technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense. Changing demographics and labor work force trends may result in a loss of knowledge and skills as experienced workers retire. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. In addition, acquisitions could cause us to lose key personnel of the acquired companies or our personnel. With rare exceptions, we do not have long-term employment agreements with our employees. Further, certain of our key personnel receive a total compensation package that includes equity awards. New regulations, volatility in the stock market and other factors could diminish our use, and/or the value, of our equity awards, putting us at a competitive disadvantage or forcing us to use more cash compensation. In addition, we continually focus on improving our cost structure. We have been hiring personnel and engaging third party outsourcing firms in countries where advanced technical expertise is available at lower costs, and we frequently utilize contract labor for short-term needs. When we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure. We may also experience increased competition for employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization continues which may affect our employee retention efforts, increase our dependence on third party outsourcing firms and contract labor and/or increase our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive compensation program for full-time employees. We have also undertaken restructuring actions over the past several years to improve our cost structure involving significant reductions in our workforce, relocation of job functions to overseas locations and changes to our organizational structure. We will continue to make organizational changes aimed at improving our operating margins and driving operating efficiencies. Some of these changes may result in future workforce reductions or rebalancing actions. These efforts place a strain on our management, administrative, technical, operational and financial infrastructure. If we fail to manage these changes effectively, it could adversely affect our ability to manage our business and our operating results. Our business and products are dependent on the availability, integrity and security of IT systems. Our IT systems and related software applications are integral to our business. We rely on controls and systems to ensure data integrity of critical business information and proper operation of our systems and networks. Lack of data integrity could create inaccuracies and hinder our ability to perform meaningful business analysis and make informed business decisions. Despite network security, disaster recovery and systems management measures in place, we may encounter unexpected general systems outages or failures that may affect our ability to conduct research and development, provide maintenance and support of our products, manage our contractual arrangements, accurately and efficiently maintain our books and records, record our transactions, provide critical information to our management and prepare our financial statements. Additionally, these unexpected systems outages or failures may require additional personnel and financial resources, disrupt our business or cause delays in the reporting of our financial results. We may also be required to modify, enhance, upgrade or implement new systems, procedures and controls to reflect changes in our business or technological advancements, which could cause us to incur additional costs and require additional management attention, placing burdens on our internal resources. We also outsource certain IT-related functions to third parties that are responsible for maintaining their own network security, disaster recovery and systems management procedures. If we, or our third party IT vendors, fail to manage our IT systems and related software applications effectively, it could adversely affect our business operations, operating results and cash flows. Cyber attacks on our networks and actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Increasingly, companies are subject to a wide variety of cyber attacks on their systems and networks on an ongoing basis. In the course of our regular business operations and providing maintenance support services to our customers, we process and transmit proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of employees, customers and others. Computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate, copy or pirate our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause interruptions or shutdowns of our internal systems and services. A number of websites have been subject to denial of service attacks, where a website is bombarded with information requests eventually causing the website to overload, resulting in a delay or disruption of service. Also, there is a growing trend of advanced persistent threats being launched by organized and coordinated groups against corporate networks to breach security for malicious purposes. If successful, any of these events could damage our computer systems or those of our customers and could disrupt or prevent us from providing timely maintenance and support for our products. 17 Table of Contents Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers and may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution and other critical functions. Security risks for us will also increase as we continue to grow our cloud-based offerings and services, especially in customer sectors involving particularly sensitive data. We have outsourced a number of our business functions to third party vendors, and our business operations also depend, in part, on the success of these third parties’ own cyber security measures. Additionally, we depend upon our employees to appropriately handle confidential data and deploy our IT resources in safe and secure fashion that does not expose our network systems to security breaches and the loss of data. Breaches in security could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, resulting in potential regulatory actions, litigation and potential liability for us, as well as the loss of existing or potential customers and damage to our brand and reputation. If we are unable to effectively execute our plan to streamline operations and successfully execute our announced workforce reductions, our financial results could be adversely affected. In March 2013, we committed to workforce reductions as a result of a company-wide operational review to streamline our operations and reallocate resources to strategic areas of our business. This initiative is expected to be substantially completed in the first half of fiscal 2014. The implementation of this initiative is subject to compliance with all applicable legal obligations. The changes to our business may be disruptive and we may not be able to implement these workforce reductions in various geographies as planned, resulting in possible changes in the size and components of the expected costs and charges. Furthermore, additional non-severance charges may also result from the Company’s operational review and we may not be able to realize the market opportunities that we believe are available to us in the areas of our strategic focus. The workforce reductions and reallocation of resources could have adverse effects on employee morale, and could have a negative impact on sales and marketing strategies and reduce our future revenues and projections. Accordingly, our activities to streamline our operations, including any related charges and the impact of the related headcount reductions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow. At March 31, 2013, we had $1.3 billion of outstanding long-term borrowings. Although we expect that our existing cash and cash equivalents as well as cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet ongoing cash requirements, our indebtedness could have adverse impacts to our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • requiring the dedication of a portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund our growth strategy, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry. In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating may negatively impact the value and liquidity of our long-term borrowings. If our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, the interest rate payable by us could increase. Downgrades in our credit ratings could also restrict our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and could affect the terms of any such financing. 18 Table of Contents Our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions of shareholders. Campaigns by stockholders to effect changes at publicly traded companies are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase shareholder value through actions such as financial restructuring, increased debt, special dividends, stock repurchases or sales of assets or the entire company. In connection with our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, we were engaged in a contested election with an activist shareholder for seats on the Board of Directors, which ultimately resulted in a settlement. Future proxy contests, if any, could be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees from executing our strategic plan. Additionally, perceived uncertainties as to our future direction as a result of shareholder activism or changes to the composition of the Board of Directors may lead to the perception of a change in the direction of the business, instability or lack of continuity which may be exploited by our competitors, cause concern to our current or potential customers, and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel. If customers choose to delay, defer or reduce transactions with us or transact with our competitors instead of us because of any such issues, then our bookings, revenue, earnings and operating cash flows could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 