Risk Factors We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. The following section describes some, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties that we anticipate may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and are not necessarily listed in terms of their importance or level of risk. We may announce lower than expected revenues, license bookings or earnings, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenues, license bookings and earnings are difficult to forecast and are likely to fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to many factors. A significant proportion of our license transactions is completed during the final weeks and days of each quarter, and therefore we generally do not know whether revenues, license bookings and/or earnings will have met expectations until shortly after the end of the quarter. Any significant shortfall in revenues, license bookings or earnings or lowered expectations could cause our stock price to decline substantially. Factors that could affect our financial results include, but are not limited to: • the unpredictability of the timing and magnitude of our sales through direct sales channels, value-added resellers and distributors, which tend to occur late in each quarter; • the possibility that our customers may choose to license our software under terms and conditions that require revenues to be deferred or recognized ratably over time rather than upfront and that we may not accurately forecast the resulting mix of license transactions between upfront and deferred revenues; • the possibility that our customers may defer or limit purchases as a result of reduced information technology 7 Table of Contents budgets or reduced data processing capacity demand; • our ability to adapt our solutions to customers’ needs in a market space defined by constant technological change; • the possibility that our customers may elect not to license our products for additional processing capacity until their actual processing capacity or expected future processing capacity exceeds the capacity they have already licensed from us; • the possibility that our customers may defer purchases of our products in anticipation of new products or product updates from us or our competitors; • the timing of new product introductions by us and the market’s acceptance of new products; • higher than expected operating expenses; • changes in our pricing and distribution terms and/or those of our competitors; and • the possibility that our business will be adversely affected as a result of the threat of significant external events that increase global economic uncertainty. Investors should not rely on the results of prior periods as an indication of our future performance. Our operating expense levels are based, in significant part, on our expectations of future revenue. If we have a shortfall in revenue in any given quarter, we will not be able to reduce our operating expenses for that quarter proportionally in response. Therefore, any significant shortfall in revenue will likely have an immediate adverse effect on our operating results for that quarter. We may have difficulty achieving our cash flow from operations goals. Our quarterly cash flow is and has been volatile. If our cash generated from operations in some future period is materially less than the market expects, our stock price could decline. To meet the needs of our customers, we have been providing more licensing options, and this increased focus on flexibility may lead to more contracts where revenues will be recognized ratably versus upfront and where cash payments may be received over time versus upfront. Factors that could adversely affect our cash flow from operations in the future include: reduced net earnings; increased time required for the collection of accounts receivable; an increase in uncollectible accounts receivable; a significant shift from multi-year committed contracts to short-term contracts; a reduced ability to transfer finance receivables to third parties (including the increase in credit risk assumed by us); an increase in contracts where expenses such as sales commissions are paid upfront but payments from customers are collected over time; reduced renewal rates for maintenance; and a reduced yield from marketable securities and cash and cash equivalents. Maintenance revenue could decline. Maintenance revenues have increased in each of the last three fiscal years as a result of acquisitions and the continuing growth in the base of installed products and the processing capacity on which they run. Maintenance fees increase as the processing capacity on which the products are installed increases; consequently, we receive higher absolute maintenance fees with new license and maintenance agreements and as existing customers install our products on additional processing capacity. Due to increased discounting for higher levels of additional processing capacity, the maintenance fees on a per unit of capacity basis are typically reduced in enterprise license agreements. In addition, customers are generally entitled to reduced annual maintenance percentages for entering into long-term maintenance contracts. These discounts, combined with an increase in long-term maintenance contracts with reduced maintenance percentages and our license bookings performance, have led to lower year-over-year growth rates for our maintenance revenues excluding acquisitions. Declines in our license bookings, increases in long-term maintenance contracts and/or increased discounting would lead to declines in our maintenance revenues. Should customers migrate from their mainframe applications or find alternatives to our products, increased cancellations 8 Table of Contents could lead to declines in our maintenance revenues. Our restructuring efforts may strain our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure We are focused on increasing our operating margins. To this end, we have undertaken restructurings over the past several years involving significant reductions in our workforce, relocation of job functions to overseas locations and changes to our organizational structure. We believe our recent restructurings are the result of extraordinary circumstances in the software industry and are the right-sizing of the software industry following the broader technology industry downturn beginning in 2000. In the future, we will continue to make organizational changes aimed at improving our operating margins and driving operating efficiencies. Some of these changes may result in additional workforce reductions or rebalancing actions in the future. These efforts place a strain on our management, administrative, technical, operational and financial infrastructure. Our ability to manage our complex, global operations while reducing operating costs requires us to continue to improve our product development, our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. There can be no guarantees that we will be successful in achieving our profitability targets in any future quarterly or annual period. In addition, with any reduction in workforce there is a risk that we will not be able to retain and effectively manage our remaining employees which could increase our costs, hinder our development efforts, impact the quality of our products, delay the delivery of new products or product updates and adversely affect our customer service. The software industry includes large, powerful multi-line and small, agile single-line competitors. Some of our largest competitors, including International Business Machines Corp (IBM), CA, Inc. (CA) and Hewlett-Packard Company (HP) have significant scale advantages. With scale comes a large installed base of customers in particular market niches, as well as the ability to develop and market software competitive with ours. Some of these competitors can also bundle hardware, software, and services together, which is a disadvantage for us since we do not provide hardware and have fewer services offerings. Competitive products are also offered by numerous independent software companies that specialize in specific aspects of the highly fragmented software industry. Some, like Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft), Oracle Corporation (Oracle), and SAP Aktiengesellschaft (SAP), are the leading developers and vendors in their specialized markets. In addition, new companies enter the market on a frequent and regular basis, offering products that compete with those offered by us. As the software industry consolidates generally, it is possible that storage and security vendors such as EMC Corporation (EMC) and Symantec Corporation (Symantec) will enter the systems management market. Additionally, many customers historically have developed their own products that compete with those offered by us. Competition from any of these sources can result in price reductions or displacement of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Industry consolidation could affect prices or demand for our products. The IT industry and the market for our systems management products are very competitive due to a variety of factors. As the enterprise systems software market matures, it is consolidating. This trend could create opportunities for larger software companies, such as IBM, Microsoft and Oracle, to increase their market share through the acquisition of companies that dominate certain lucrative market niches or that have loyal installed customer bases. We expect this trend towards consolidation to continue as companies attempt to maintain or extend their market and competitive positions in the rapidly changing software industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. This industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. This could lead to more variability in our operating results due to lengthening of the customer evaluation process and/or loss of business to these stronger competitors, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our products must remain compatible with ever-changing operating and database environments. IBM, HP, Microsoft and Oracle are by far the largest suppliers of systems and database software and, in many cases, are the manufacturers of the computer hardware systems used by most of our customers. Historically, operating and database system developers have modified or introduced new operating systems, database systems, systems software and computer hardware. Such new products could incorporate features which perform functions 9 Table of Contents currently performed by our products or could require substantial modification of our products to maintain compatibility with these companies’ hardware or software. We have generally been able to adapt our products and our business to changes introduced by hardware manufacturers and operating and database system software developers. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. Failure to adapt our products in a timely manner to such changes or customer decisions to forego the use of our products in favor of those with comparable functionality contained either in the hardware or operating system could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Future product development is dependent upon access to third-party source code. In the past, licensees using proprietary operating systems were furnished with “source code,” which makes the operating system generally understandable to programmers, and “object code,” which directly controls the hardware and other technical documentation. Since the availability of source code facilitated the development of systems and applications software, which must interface with the operating systems, independent software vendors such as BMC were able to develop and market compatible software. IBM and other hardware vendors have a policy of restricting the use or availability of the source code for some of their operating systems. To date, this policy has not had a material effect on us. Some companies, however, may adopt more restrictive policies in the future or impose unfavorable terms and conditions for such access. These restrictions may, in the future, result in higher research and development costs for us in connection with the enhancement and modification of our existing products and the development of new products. Although we do not expect that such restrictions will have this adverse effect, there can be no assurances that such restrictions or other restrictions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Future product development is dependent upon early access to third-party operating and database systems. Operating and database system software developers have in the past provided us with early access to pre-generally available (GA) versions of their software in order to have input into the functionality and to ensure that we can adapt our software to exploit new functionality in these systems. Some companies, however, may adopt more restrictive policies in the future or impose unfavorable terms and conditions for such access. These restrictions may result in higher research and development costs for us in connection with the enhancement and modification of our existing products and the development of new products. Although we do not expect that such restrictions will have this adverse effect, there can be no assurances that such restrictions or other restrictions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Future product development is dependent upon access to and reliability of third-party software products. Certain of our software products contain components developed and maintained by third-party software vendors. We expect that we may have to incorporate software from third-party vendors in our future products. We may not be able to replace the functionality provided by the third-party software currently offered with our products if that software becomes obsolete, defective or incompatible with future versions of our products or is not adequately maintained or updated, or if our relationship with the third-party vendor terminates. Although we expect there are adequate alternate sources for the technology licensed to us, any significant interruption in the availability of these third-party software products on commercially acceptable terms or defects in these products could delay development of future products or enhancement of future products and harm our revenues. Growing market acceptance of “open source” software could cause a decline in our revenues and operating margins. Growing market acceptance of open source software has presented both benefits and challenges to the commercial software industry in recent years. “Open source” software is made widely available by its authors and is licensed “as is” for a nominal fee or, in some cases, at no charge. We have incorporated some open source software into our products, allowing us to enhance certain solutions without incurring substantial additional research and development costs. Thus far, we have encountered no unanticipated material problems arising from our use of open source software. However, as the use of open source software becomes more widespread, certain open source technology could become competitive with our proprietary technology, which could cause sales of our products to decline or force us to reduce the fees we charge for our products, which could have a material adverse impact on our 10 Table of Contents revenues and operating margins. Discovery of errors in our software could adversely affect our earnings. The software products we offer are inherently complex. Despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that errors will not be found in current versions, new versions or enhancements of our products after commencement of commercial shipments. If new or existing customers have difficulty deploying our products or require significant amounts of customer support, our operating margins could be harmed. Moreover, we could face possible claims and higher development costs if our software contains undetected errors or if we fail to meet our customers’ expectations. With our BSM strategy, these risks increase because we are combining already complex products to create solutions that are even more complicated than the aggregation of their product components. Significant technical challenges also arise with our products because our customers purchase and deploy our products across a variety of computer platforms and integrate them with a number of third-party software applications and databases. These combinations increase our risk further because in the event of a system-wide failure, it may be difficult to determine which product is at fault; thus, we may be harmed by the failure of another supplier’s products. As a result of the foregoing, we could experience: • loss of or delay in revenues and loss of market share; • loss of customers; • damage to our reputation; • failure to achieve market acceptance; • diversion of development resources; • increased service and warranty costs; • legal actions by customers against us which could, whether or not successful, increase costs and distract our management; and • increased insurance costs. Failure to maintain our existing distribution channels and develop additional channels in the future could adversely affect our revenues. The percentage of our revenues from sales of our products and services through distribution channels such as systems integrators and value-added resellers is increasing. Conducting business through indirect distribution channels presents a number of risks, including: • our systems integrators and value-added resellers can cease marketing our products and services with limited or no notice and with little or no penalty; • we may not be able to replace existing or recruit additional systems integrators or value-added resellers if we lose any of our existing ones; • our existing systems integrators and value-added resellers may not be able to effectively sell new products and services that we may introduce; • we do not have direct control over the business practices adopted by our systems integrators and value-added resellers; • our systems integrators and value-added resellers may also offer competitive products and services and as such, may not give priority to the marketing of our products and services as compared to our competitors’ products; and 11 Table of Contents • we may face conflicts between the activities of our indirect channels and our direct sales and marketing activities. Our customers may not accept our product strategies. Historically, we have focused on selling software products to address specific customer problems associated with their applications. Our BSM strategy requires us to integrate multiple software products so that they work together to provide comprehensive systems management solutions. There can be no assurance that customers will perceive a need for such solutions. In addition, there may be technical difficulties in integrating individual products into a combined solution that may delay the introduction of such solutions to the market or adversely affect the demand for such solutions. We may also adopt different sales strategies for marketing our products, and there can be no assurance that our strategies for selling solutions will be successful. Changes to compensation of our sales organization may have unintended effects. We review and modify our compensation plans for the sales organization periodically. As in most years, we have made significant changes for fiscal 2007. These plans are intended to align with our business objectives of providing customer flexibility and satisfaction. The compensation plans may encourage unanticipated or unintended behavior which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and/or cash flows. Changes to our sales compensation plan could also make it difficult for us to attract and retain top sales talent. Risks related to business combinations. As part of our overall strategy, we have acquired or invested in, and likely will continue to acquire or invest in, complementary companies, products, and technologies. Risks commonly encountered in such transactions include: the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the combined companies; the risk that we may not be able to integrate the acquired technologies or products with our current products and technologies; the potential disruption of our ongoing business; the inability to retain key technical, sales and managerial personnel; the inability of management to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful integration of acquired businesses; the risk that revenues from acquired companies, products and technologies do not meet our expectations; and decreases in reported earnings as a result of charges for in-process research and development and amortization of acquired intangible assets. For us to maximize the return on our investments in acquired companies, the products of these entities must be integrated with our existing products. These integrations can be difficult and unpredictable, especially given the complexity of software and that acquired technology is typically developed independently and designed with no regard to integration. The difficulties are compounded when the products involved are well-established because compatibility with the existing base of installed products must be preserved. Successful integration also requires coordination of different development and engineering teams. This too can be difficult and unpredictable because of possible cultural conflicts and different opinions on technical decisions and product roadmaps. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our product integration efforts or that we will realize the expected benefits. With each of our acquisitions, we have initiated efforts to integrate the disparate cultures, employees, systems and products of these companies. Retention of key employees is critical to ensure the continued development, support, sales and marketing efforts pertaining to the acquired products. We have implemented retention programs to keep many of the key technical, sales and marketing employees of acquired companies; nonetheless, we have lost some key employees and may lose others in the future. Unanticipated changes in our effective tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We carry out our business operations through entities in the United States and multiple foreign jurisdictions. As such, we are required to file corporate income tax returns that are subject to United States, state and foreign tax laws. The United States, state and foreign tax liabilities are determined, in part, by the amount of operating profit generated in these different taxing jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate and earnings could be adversely affected by 12 Table of Contents changes in the mix of operating profits generated in countries with higher statutory tax rates. We are also required to evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets. This evaluation requires that our management assess the positive and negative evidence regarding sources of future taxable income. If management’s assessment regarding the realizability of our deferred tax assets changes or we are presented with additional negative evidence regarding future sources of taxable income, we will be required to increase our valuation allowance, which will negatively impact our effective tax rate and earnings. We are also subject to routine corporate income tax audits in multiple jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes includes amounts intended to satisfy income tax assessments that may result from the examination of our corporate tax returns that have been filed in these jurisdictions. The amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of these examinations could be materially different from the amounts included in the provision for income taxes and result in additional tax expense. Enforcement of our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual procedures to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy certain portions of our products or to reverse engineer or obtain and use technology or other information that we regard as proprietary. There can also be no assurance that our intellectual property rights would survive a legal challenge to their validity or provide significant protection for us. In addition, the laws of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized third party copying or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position and revenues. Possibility of infringement claims. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties claiming infringement by our products of patent and other intellectual property rights. We expect that software products will increasingly be subject to such claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows and the functionality of products overlaps. In addition, we may receive more patent infringement claims as companies increasingly seek to patent their software and business methods and enforce such patents, especially given the increase in software and business method patents issued during the past several years. Regardless of its merit, responding to any such claim could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements, which may not be offered or available on terms acceptable to us. If a successful claim is made against us and we fail to develop or license a substitute technology, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks related to global operations. We are a global company with research and development sites and sales offices around the world. As a result, we face risks from operating as a global concern, including, among others: • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • possible non-compliance with our professional conduct policy and code of ethics due to inconsistent interpretations and/or application of corporate standards; • longer payment cycles; • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; • adverse tax consequences; • changes in currency exchange rates; • potential impact from volatile or sluggish local economies; 13 Table of Contents • loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or weaker laws regarding intellectual property protection; • the need to localize our products; • political unrest or terrorism, particularly in areas in which we have facilities; • compliance with a wide variety of complex laws and treaties; and • licenses, tariffs and other trade barriers. We maintain a significant presence in India, conducting software development and support and IT and certain financial operations. To date, the dispute between India and Pakistan involving the Kashmir region has not adversely affected our operations in India. Should we be unable to conduct operations in India in the future, we expect that our business could be temporarily adversely affected. As the software and technology labor market in India has developed at a rapid pace, with many multi-national companies competing for talent, there is a risk that wage and attrition rates will rise faster than we have anticipated, which could lead to operational issues. We conduct substantial development and marketing operations in multiple locations in Israel and, accordingly, we are directly affected by economic, political and military conditions in Israel. Any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We maintain comprehensive contingency and business continuity plans for our local operations, and to date, the current dispute in the India — Pakistan region and hostilities within Israel have not caused disruption of our operations. Generally, our foreign sales are denominated in our foreign subsidiaries’ local currencies. If these currency exchange rates change unexpectedly, we could have significant gains or losses. The foreign currencies to which we currently have the most significant exposure are the euro and the Israeli shekel. Additionally, fluctuations of the exchange rate of foreign currencies against the United States dollar can affect our revenue within those markets, all of which may adversely impact our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Currently, we use derivative financial instruments to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Such hedging requires us to estimate when transactions will occur and cash will be collected, and we may not be successful in making these estimates. If these estimates are inaccurate, particularly during periods of currency volatility, it could have a materially adverse affect on our business, financial condition or operating results. We have identified a material weakness in our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, which, if not remedied effectively, could have an adverse effect on our business. Management, through documentation, testing and assessment of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to the rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Item 308 of Regulation S-K, has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting had a material weakness as of March 31, 2006. In response to this material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we are implementing, and may be required to further implement, additional controls and procedures. Furthermore, we intend to continue improving our internal control over financial reporting, and the implementation and testing of these continued improvements could result in increased cost and could divert management attention away from operating our business. In future periods, if the process required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act reveals further material weaknesses or significant deficiencies, the correction of any such material weakness or significant deficiency could require additional remedial measures including additional personnel which could be costly and time-consuming. If a material weakness exists as of a future period year-end (including a material weakness identified prior to year-end for which there is an insufficient period of time to evaluate and confirm the effectiveness of the corrections or related new procedures), our management will be unable to report favorably as of such future period year-end to the effectiveness of our control over financial reporting. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period, or if we continue to experience material weaknesses in our internal 14 Table of Contents control over financial reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price and potentially subject us to litigation. If the carrying value of our long-lived assets were not recoverable, recognition of an impairment loss would be required, which would adversely affect our financial results. We evaluate our long-lived assets, including property and equipment, goodwill, acquired product rights and other intangible assets, whenever events or circumstances occur which indicate that these assets might be impaired or periodically as required by generally accepted accounting principles. In addition, the realizability of acquired technology and capitalized software development costs is evaluated quarterly, and goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are evaluated annually for impairment in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, regardless of events and circumstances. The reader should be aware that in the continuing process of evaluating the recoverability of the carrying amount of our long-lived assets, there is the possibility that we could identify a substantial impairment, which could adversely affect our financial results. Expensing of share-based compensation will reduce our reported earnings and could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We have historically used stock options and other long-term equity incentives as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages. In accounting for our stock option grants using the intrinsic value method under the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25, we have generally recognized no compensation cost because the exercise price of options granted has generally been equal to the market value of our common stock on the date of grant. The FASB has revised United States generally accepted accounting principles such that we will be required to record charges to earnings for employee stock option grants beginning April 1, 2006, which will negatively impact our earnings. The full impact cannot be predicted at this time because it will depend on levels of share-based payments granted in the future. In addition, the New York Stock Exchange rule requiring stockholder approval for all stock option plans could make it more difficult for us to adopt plans to grant options to employees in the future. Like other companies, we have reviewed our equity compensation strategy in light of the current regulatory and competitive environment and have decided to reduce the number of employees who receive share-based compensation. As a result, we may incur increased cash compensation costs or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, and such difficulty could materially adversely affect our business. Interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements could adversely affect our financial results. On April 1, 1998 and 1999, we adopted AICPA SOP 97-2, “Software Revenue Recognition,” and SOP 98-9 “Modification of SOP 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, With Respect to Certain Transactions” (collectively, SOPs), respectively. The adoption of these standards did not have a material impact on our financial position or operating results. Based on our reading and interpretation of these SOPs, we expect that our current sales contract terms and business arrangements have been properly reported. Future interpretations of existing accounting standards or changes in our business practices could result in future changes in our revenue accounting policies that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 