Risk Factors The Company cautions readers that the following important factors, among others, in some cases have caused, and in the future could cause, the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. Additionally, any one of the following factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. BUSINESS FOCUS ON THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY. Because of the significant concentration of the Company’s business in a single industry, the automobile industry, the Company’s profitability may be adversely affected by negative developments in the automobile market. During a downturn in the automobile industry, our customers may be less willing to invest in their software systems and hardware, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. CONSOLIDATION OF AUTOMOBILE DEALERSHIPS. In recent years, several of the largest automobile dealership groups have selected a single supplier to provide dealer DMS solutions for all their dealerships. If a trend to direct a single supplier develops in the industry, other dealership groups that are not single source may select a competitor of the Company as their exclusive supplier. Such consolidation could cause the Company to lose a significant amount of customers over a relatively short period of time, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. COMPETITION. The Company faces competition in all areas of its business activity. The Company’s competitors are numerous, ranging from some of the world’s largest corporations to many relatively small and highly specialized firms. The Company competes primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, distribution, and customer service and support. By specializing in a particular niche market, the Company has emphasized reliable and responsive service, broad industry knowledge and long-term relationships. While the loss of any single customer would not be material, the Company does have several significant customers, whose loss in the aggregate would negatively impact the Company. The Company will be required to develop new products, periodically enhance its existing products and compete effectively on the basis of the factors described above to remain competitive. CUSTOMER ATTRITION. We may experience customer attrition due to, among other things, customers consolidating or going out of business, the technological and other offerings of our competitors or customers coming off of our leases and other agreements that do not have an automatic renewal in place who switch to one of our competitors. Such customer attrition could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. MATERIAL WEAKNESS. Management has identified a material weakness in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as defined in the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s Auditing Standard No. 2. The application of generally accepted accounting principles to the Company’s multiple element revenue arrangements is complex and management did not have sufficient resources with the requisite expertise to ensure that consideration was allocated appropriately to the various elements within the Company’s multiple element arrangements. While the Company concluded that it was not required to restate prior financial statements with 6 Table of Contents respect to revenue recognition, the Company identified errors in the application of its prior revenue recognition policy and changed its revenue recognition policy from AICPA Statement of Position (SOP) 97-2, “Software Revenue Recognition,” to Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) Topic 13, “Revenue Recognition.” See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis-Results of Operations- Correction of Prior Period Errors.” The Company cannot provide assurance that additional material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties the Company encounters in their implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses, cause the Company to fail to meet its periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in its financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated under Section 404. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in the Company’s financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause the Company to fail to meet its reporting obligations, which may result in defaults under the Company’s debt agreements, and cause investors to lose confidence in the Company’s reported financial information, leading to a decline in the stock price. NEW PRODUCTS AND SERVICES. Timing and market acceptance of new product offerings are components of the Company’s growth objectives. The Company must be able to continue developing, manufacturing, marketing and implementing innovative products and services rapidly that meet customer requirements for performance and reliability. It requires accurate anticipation of customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends and may require acquisitions or strategic partnerships for success. Also, the Company must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether its investments will eventually result in products and services that both embody the latest technology and achieve market acceptance. This process requires accurate forecasting of volumes, configurations, integration and mix of products and services and properly trained personnel with the necessary skills. Moreover, the supply and timing of new products or services must match customers’ demands and timing for the particular products or services. Failure to successfully launch these new products and services could result in cancellation of orders, and/or charges to earnings, including impairment of assets. Given the wide variety and complexity of products and services that the Company offers, the process of planning and bringing new products and services to market, whether internally or through relationships with others, is inherently difficult and uncertain. Product development, variations in product costs, and delays in customer purchases of current products in anticipation of new product introductions are among the factors that make a smooth transition from current products to new products difficult. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company’s expectations regarding new products will be met. Moreover, the timing of the introduction of new product and services by suppliers and competitors may negatively affect future operating results of the Company. Furthermore, some of the Company’s new products may replace or compete with certain of the Company’s existing products. RELIANCE ON SUPPLIERS. Third party software and computer hardware and peripherals are essential to the Company’s product offerings. It licenses or purchases these products from a variety of suppliers. Currently, one supplier supplies the hardware platform for its dealer management systems. If this source of supply were to be interrupted, some delay would occur in converting to a new platform. There are certain technical enhancements to ERA necessary to roll out the Saturn program described below. If Infosys, the supplier performing the technical enhancement to ERA, does not finish the enhancement on schedule, the project could be delayed. Moreover, the Company has expanded its use of third party hosted application and damage or interruption from sources outside the Company’s control at these facilities which could result in interruptions in the Company’s service. An adequate supply of paper products is also essential to the Company’s automotive forms business. The Company purchases paper from major suppliers and historically has not experienced difficulties in obtaining paper products. The Company’s documents business may be negatively impacted if such difficulties arise. DEPENDENCE ON KEY PERSONNEL. The Company depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including technical, sales, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel in the information technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents may be intense. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully retain and attract the key personnel it needs. 7 Table of Contents BUSINESS INTERRUPTIONS AND DEPENDENCE ON SINGLE RESOURCE FOR CERTAIN SERVICES. The Company’s operations depend in large part upon its ability to provide prompt and efficient services to its customers. Certain of the Company’s operations are performed at a single location and depend on continuous computer, hardware, internet, printing, electrical and telephone services. A disruption of these key services could impair the Company’s day- to-day operations. There can be no assurance that a fire, flood, earthquake, wide-spread power outage or other disaster affecting one or more of the Company’s facilities would not disable these services. Significant damage to any facility or other failures that cause significant interruptions of the Company’s operations may not be completely covered by insurance. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS, STRATEGIC ALLIANCES, JOINT VENTURES AND DIVESTITURES. As part of its strategy for growth, the Company has made, and may continue to make, business combinations, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures. The effective integration of business combinations, strategic alliances, and acquired companies may be difficult to achieve. It is also possible that the Company may not realize any or all expected benefits from recent acquisitions or achieve benefits from acquisitions in a timely manner. In addition, the Company may incur significant costs and impact existing internal resources in connection with the integration of acquisitions. Failure to effectively integrate recent and future acquisitions could result in charges to earnings, including impairment of assets. DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS. The Company offers its products and services primarily through the dealership franchise distribution channel. Changes in the method or manner of the distribution of the automotive industry could negatively impact the Company’s financial condition. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. While the Company’s various proprietary intellectual property rights are important to its success, the Company believes its business as a whole is not materially dependent upon any particular license or patent. The Company owns a number of patents, trademarks and copyrights relating to its products and services. The Company also has licenses from third parties. These patents and licenses vary in duration. The Company has granted and does grant licenses to others under reasonable terms and conditions. There can be no assurance that the Company’s intellectual property rights will not be subject to claims of infringement or improper use of the Company’s technology. INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS. Because the Company sells its products outside the United States, its business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Accordingly, significant negative events affecting the markets where the Company operates, or other international markets, could jeopardize or limit the Company’s ability to transact business in the manner expected, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, revenues and operating results. Some of these factors include: changes in foreign currency exchange rates; exchange controls or other currency restrictions; changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets; hyperinflation and adverse economic conditions stemming from governmental attempts to reduce inflation, or deflation; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. Additionally, the Company is subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. The Company’s failure to comply with the applicable laws and regulations could result in penalties which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ACCESS TO CAPITAL. The delay in the filing of the Company’s periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act may limit the Company’s access to capital in several ways. First, the Company cannot issue notes under a shelf registration statement on file with the SEC until twelve months after the timely filing of the Company’s periodic reports. Second, the Company has also recently experienced downgrades to its credit rating from Moody’s Investor Services and could experience further downgrades in the future. Our access to the public debt markets could be limited to the non-investment grade segment which would result in higher borrowing costs until our credit rating has been restored to investment grade by Moody’s. Third, the delay in the filing of the periodic reports has caused an event of default under the Indenture relating to our 7% Notes Due December 15, 2006, which would result in the acceleration of the principal and interest of the Notes unless the delay in filing the periodic reports is cured by May 25, 2006. The Company intends to deposit funds in trust sufficient to pay and discharge all remaining payments 8 Table of Contents of principal and interest under the Notes prior to May 25, 2006. Lastly, the Company’s failure to file the periodic reports and the default under the Indenture was also a default under the Company’s Loan Funding Agreement (as defined herein) and its $200,000 Credit Agreement (as defined herein). On April 25, 2006, the Loan Funding Agreement was extended through December 31, 2006 and the requirement to file financial statements was waived through September 30, 2006. Pursuant to a March 16, 2006 amendment of the Credit Agreement, until the date that the Company is current with the filing of its periodic reports with the SEC, the Company will not be permitted to enter into certain acquisitions and investments in partnerships and alliances unless it reaches certain liquidity milestones. Thus, the delay in filing of the periodic reports may limit the Company’s access to capital. ITEM 1.B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 