Item 1A. Risk Factors The future of our business and operations depends on the success of our Relistor collaborations and our oncology research and development programs. Our business and operations entail a variety of serious risks and uncertainties and are inherently risky. The research and development programs on which we focus involve novel approaches to human therapeutics. Our principal product candidates are in clinical development, and in some respects involve technologies with which we have limited prior experience. We are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of product candidates based on new technologies. There is little precedent for the successful commercialization of products based on our technologies, and there are a number of technological challenges that we must overcome to complete most of our development efforts. We may not be able successfully to develop further any of our product candidates. We and our Relistor and other collaborators must successfully complete clinical trials and obtain regulatory approvals for potential commercial products. Once approved, if at all, commercial product sales are subject to general and industry-specific local and international economic, regulatory, technological and policy developments and trends. The oncology space in which we operate presents numerous significant risks and uncertainties that may be expected to increase to the extent it becomes more competitive or less favored in the commercial healthcare marketplace. The long-term success of our acquisition of Molecular Insight will be subject to all of the risks and uncertainties described in these risk factors. In addition, the estimated fair values of Molecular Insight assets and liabilities reflected in our financial statements do not, given their uniqueness and attendant uncertainties, reflect actual transactions or quoted prices and may not correlate to any future values or results. Such information should not be interpreted or relied upon as indicative of any future value or results. Our failure to manage successfully any of our product candidates, technologies or programs could have an adverse impact on our business, and on the price of our stock. We are dependent on Salix, Ono and other business partners to develop and commercialize Relistor, exposing us to significant risks. We rely on Salix to complete development and obtain regulatory approvals for additional formulations of and indications for Relistor and, in the Japanese market, we rely on Ono to conduct clinical trials and obtain regulatory approvals. We are and will be dependent upon Salix, Ono and any other business partners with which we may collaborate in the future to perform and fund development, including clinical testing of Relistor, make related regulatory filings and manufacture and market products, including for new indications and in new formulations, in their respective territories. Revenue from the sale of Relistor depends entirely upon the efforts of Salix and its sublicensees, which have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources they apply to sales of Relistor. Ono will have similar discretion with respect to sales in Japan. Neither may be effective in obtaining approvals for new indications or formulations, marketing existing or future products or arranging for necessary sublicense or distribution relationships. Our business relationships with Salix, Ono and other partners may not be scientifically, clinically or commercially successful. For example, Salix has a variety of marketed products. Salix is not, however, a large diversified pharmaceutical company and does not have resources commensurate with such companies. Salix has its own corporate objectives, which may not be consistent with our best interests, and may change its strategic focus or pursue alternative technologies in a manner that results in reduced or delayed revenue to us. Changes of this nature might also occur if Salix were acquired or if its management changed. We may have future disagreements with Salix or Ono, both of which have significantly greater financial and managerial resources which either could draw upon in the event of a dispute. Such disagreements could lead to lengthy and expensive litigation or other dispute-resolution proceedings as well as extensive financial and operational consequences to us and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, independent actions may be taken by Salix and/or Ono concerning product development, marketing strategies, manufacturing and supply issues, and rights relating to intellectual property, including, as discussed below, Relistor's path forward in light of the July 2012 Complete Response Letter from the FDA. 12 Table of Contents As noted elsewhere in this document, Progenics in October 2013 commenced an arbitration with Ono under the provisions of the parties' License Agreement for development and commercialization of subcutaneous Relistor in Japan, following a communication from Ono that it has determined to discontinue development because of "commercial concerns" that Ono contends would permit it to cease development and terminate the Agreement. Ono's discontinuation of development and/or protracted dispute resolution proceedings could result in reduced or delayed, or in the elimination of, milestone and/or royalty revenue from subcutaneous Relistor development in Japan. Under our License Agreement with Salix, in the event our Agreement with Ono terminates or rights thereunder otherwise revert to Progenics, the Salix Agreement automatically without payment by Salix extends to the license grants, territory and other rights provided in the Ono Agreement, as a result of which Salix and not Progenics would receive such rights. As a result of the FDA's Complete Response Letter on Relistor for chronic pain, the Relistor program may be discontinued or otherwise at risk. As previously announced, and noted elsewhere in this document, the FDA in July 2012 issued a Complete Response Letter in response to Salix's supplemental New Drug Application for Relistor for the treatment of OIC in adult patients with chronic, non-cancer pain. This development may result in Salix and/or Ono taking independent actions concerning product development, marketing strategies or other matters for Relistor, including termination of their efforts to develop and commercialize the drug. At an End-of-Review meeting in October 2012, the FDA's Division of Gastroenterology and Inborn Errors Products has expressed a concern that there may be a risk associated with the chronic use of mu-opioid receptor antagonists in patients who are taking opioids for chronic pain, and, in order to understand this potential risk, the Division communicated that a very large, well-controlled, chronic administration trial will have to be conducted to assess the safety of any mu-opioid receptor antagonist prior to market approval for the treatment of patients with OIC who are taking opioids for chronic, non-cancer pain. In addition, the FDA informed Salix and Progenics in June 2013 that it will seek input from an Advisory Committee, which is now expected to convene in the near future, and at that time expressed our belief that some of the areas being considered for discussion during the meeting would include the potential for drugs in Relistor's class to cause withdrawal symptoms; the strength of a potential cardiovascular signal seen with another drug in this class of drugs and the available safety data with Relistor in regards to a potential cardiovascular signal; and the need and timing (pre-approval vs. post-approval) of major adverse cardiac events (MACE) studies with drugs of this class. Salix has disclosed in regulatory filings that it might terminate its development program for Relistor subcutaneous injection for treatment of OIC in chronic non-cancer pain patients, and that additional information and additional guidance from the FDA could result in the termination of its oral OIC Relistor development program. As noted in our risk factor on regulatory approvals below, if clinical trials indicate, or regulatory bodies are concerned about, actual or possible serious problems with the safety or efficacy of a product candidate, such as the concerns expressed in the FDA's CRL and as described above, we or our collaborators may stop or significantly slow development or commercialization of affected products. As a result of such concerns, the development programs for subcutaneous and/or oral Relistor for chronic, non-cancer pain patients may be significantly delayed or terminated altogether. In such an event, we could be faced with either further developing and commercializing the drug on our own or with one or more substitute collaborators, either of which paths would subject us to the development, commercialization, collaboration and/or financing risks discussed in these risk factors. Any such significant action adverse to development and commercialization of Relistor could have a material adverse impact on our business, and on the price of our stock. We are subject to extensive regulation, which can be costly and time consuming, may not lead to marketing approval for our product candidates, and can subject us to unanticipated limitations, restrictions, delays and fines. Our business, products and product candidates are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and comparable authorities in other countries. These agencies and other entities regulate the pre-clinical and clinical testing, safety, effectiveness, approval, manufacture, labeling, marketing, export, storage, recordkeeping, advertising, promotion and other aspects of our products and product candidates. We cannot guarantee that approvals of product candidates, processes or facilities will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. If we experience delays or failures in obtaining approvals, commercialization of our product candidates will be slowed or stopped. For example, as described in Business – Clinical Trial Activities, in clinical studies of one of our principal product candidates, PSMA ADC, investigators have reported serious adverse events (SAEs), including three deaths, in a small proportion of patients treated with the drug. Based on data currently available to us, the Company is continuing development of PSMA ADC and has not determined what effects, if any, treatment-related SAEs reported to date or that may be reported in the future may have on the development of PSMA ADC going forward. If, however, we, together with or independently of investigators participating in our clinical trials, or regulators evaluating PSMA ADC were to determine that this candidate cannot safely be administered to patients with sufficient therapeutic effect, we may determine to attempt to reformulate or otherwise change the candidate and/or its administration to alleviate such concerns, which could result in costs and delays that could impair the value of the candidate. If such costs and delays were sufficiently large, we could determine to abandon the PSMA ADC program. Concerns about the safety and/or efficacy of PSMA ADC could also make it more difficult or impossible for us to enter into licensing, collaboration or other arrangements with third parties for further development and commercialization of PSMA ADC. Any of these possibilities could have material adverse effects on Progenics' business, its financial condition, and/or the price of our stock. 13 Table of Contents Even if we obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate, the approval may include significant limitations on indicated uses for which the product could be marketed or other significant marketing restrictions, such as a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS). For example, Relistor is only approved for OIC in patients with advanced illness and not for chronic, non-cancer pain, and our product candidates, if approved at all, may be subject to those or other such limitations and restrictions. If we or our collaborators violate regulatory requirements at any stage, whether before or after marketing approval is obtained, we or they may be subject to forced removal of a product from the market, product seizure, civil and criminal penalties and other adverse consequences. Under our license agreement with Salix, we are dependent on Salix for compliance with these regulatory requirements as they apply to Relistor. Salix has disclosed that in February 2013 it received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York requesting documents regarding its sales and promotional practices for Relistor and certain of its other products, that it is in the process of responding to the subpoena and intends to cooperate fully with the subpoena and related government investigation, which has and will continue to increase its legal expenses, and might require management time and attention, and that at the time of its disclosure it cannot predict or determine the timing or outcome of the inquiry or its impact on Salix's financial condition or results of operations. Our products may face regulatory, legal or commercial challenges even after approval. Even if a product receives regulatory approval: · It might not obtain labeling claims necessary to make the product commercially viable (in general, labeling claims define the medical conditions for which a drug product may be marketed, and are therefore very important to the commercial success of a product), or may be required to carry Boxed or other warnings that adversely affect its commercial success. · Approval may be limited to uses of the product for treatment or prevention of diseases or conditions that are relatively less financially advantageous to us than approval of greater or different scope or subject to an FDA-imposed REMS that imposes limits on the distribution or use of the product. · Side effects (including different or aggravated effects such as SAEs encountered in our PSMA ADC program) identified after the product is on the market might hurt sales or result in mandatory safety labeling changes, additional pre-clinical testing or clinical trials, imposition of a REMS, product recalls or withdrawals from the market. · Efficacy or safety concerns (including those arising from SAEs heretofore or hereafter encountered in our PSMA ADC program) regarding a marketed product, or manufacturing or other problems, may lead to a recall, withdrawal of marketing approval, reformulation of the product, additional pre-clinical testing or clinical trials, changes in labeling, imposition of a REMS, the need for additional marketing applications, declining sales or other adverse events. These potential consequences may occur whether or not the concerns originate from subsequent testing or other activities by us, governmental regulators, other entities or organizations or otherwise, and whether or not they are scientifically justified. If products lose previously received marketing and other approvals, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. We or our collaborators will be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continuous regulatory review, and might be required to undertake post-marketing trials to verify the product's efficacy or safety or other regulatory obligations. Competing products in development may adversely affect acceptance of our products. We are aware of a number of products and product candidates described in this Annual Report under Business – Competition which compete or may potentially compete with Relistor. Any of these approved products or product candidates, or others which may be developed in the future may achieve a significant competitive advantage relative to Relistor, and, in any event, the existing or future marketing and sales capabilities of these competitors may impair Salix's and/or Ono's ability to compete effectively in the market. 14 Table of Contents We are also aware of competitors, including those described under Business – Competition, which are developing alternative treatments for disease targets to which our research and development programs are directed, any of which – or others which may be developed in the future – may achieve a significant competitive advantage relative to any product we may develop. Developing product candidates will require us to obtain additional financing. Our access to capital funding is uncertain. We expect to continue to incur significant development expenditures for our product candidates. We do not have committed external sources of funding for most of these projects. Our expenditures will be funded from cash on hand, or we may seek additional external funding for them, most likely through collaborative, license or royalty financing agreements with one or more pharmaceutical or other companies and equity securities issuances in public offerings, private placements or through our January 2014 Sales Agreement with Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., pursuant to which we may sell from time to time up to $50 million of our stock. We may also seek capital through debt financings or government grants or contracts. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities in the future, existing stockholders could experience substantial dilution in addition to the dilution experienced as a result of our recent equity offerings and the Molecular Insight acquisition, and new investors could have rights superior to existing stockholders, if securities other than common stock were to be issued. Any debt financing that we are able to obtain may involve operating covenants that restrict our business and significant repayment obligations. To the extent that we raise additional funds through any new collaboration and licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish some rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. We cannot predict when we will need additional funds, how much we will need, the form any financing may take or whether additional funds will be available at all, especially in light of current conditions in global credit and financial markets. Our need for future funding will depend on numerous factors, such as the availability of new product development projects; the achievement of events identified in our collaboration agreements that trigger payments to us from our collaboration partners, most of which are out of our control and rely entirely on the efforts of our partners; the progress and success of clinical trials and pre-clinical activities (including studies and manufacture of materials) of our product candidates conducted by our collaborators or us; the progress of research programs carried out by us; any changes in the breadth of our research and development programs; the progress of the research and development efforts of our collaborators; our ability to acquire or license other technologies or compounds that we seek to pursue; competing technological and market developments; the costs and timing of obtaining, enforcing and defending our patent and intellectual property rights; the costs and timing of regulatory approvals and filings by us and our collaborators; our ability to manage our growth; and any unforeseen litigation. These factors may be more important with respect to product candidates and programs that involve technologies with which we have limited prior experience, such as those originally developed by Molecular Insight. Insufficient funds may require us to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our research and development programs, to lose rights under existing licenses or to relinquish greater or all rights to product candidates at an earlier stage of development or on less favorable terms than we would otherwise choose or may adversely affect our ability to operate as a going concern. We may not be able at the necessary time to obtain additional funding on acceptable terms, or at all. Our inability to raise additional capital on terms reasonably acceptable to us would seriously jeopardize our business. If we are unable to negotiate collaboration agreements, our cash burn rate could increase and our rate of product development could decrease. Our ability to generate revenue in the near term depends on the timing of achievement, if any, of certain payment triggering events under our existing collaboration agreements and our ability to enter into additional collaboration agreements with third parties. We may not be successful in negotiating additional collaboration arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to develop and commercialize product candidates and technologies. If we do not enter into new collaboration arrangements, we would have to devote more of our resources to clinical product development and product launch activities and to seeking additional sources of capital to fund those activities. If we were not successful in seeking such capital, our cash burn rate would increase or we would need to take steps to reduce our rate of product development. Our ability to enter into new collaborations may be dependent on many factors, such as the results of clinical trials, competitive factors and the fit of our programs with the risk tolerance of a potential collaborator, including in relation to regulatory issues, the patent portfolio, the clinical pipeline, the stage of the available data, overall corporate goals and financial position. If we are not able to generate revenue under our collaborations when and in accordance with our expectations or the expectations of industry analysts, this failure could harm our business and have an immediate adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. 15 Table of Contents Drug development is a long and inherently uncertain process with a high risk of failure at every stage of development. Drug development is a highly uncertain scientific and medical endeavor, and failure can unexpectedly occur at any stage of clinical development. Typically, there is a high rate of attrition for product candidates in preclinical and clinical trials due to scientific feasibility, safety, efficacy, changing standards of medical care and other variables. The risk of failure increases for our product candidates that are based on new technologies, as well as technologies with which we have limited prior experience, such as those originally developed by Molecular Insight. Pre-clinical studies and clinical trials are long, expensive and highly uncertain processes that can take many years. It will take us, or our collaborators, several years to complete clinical trials and the time required for completing testing and obtaining approvals is uncertain. The start or end of a clinical trial is often delayed or halted due to changing regulatory requirements, manufacturing challenges, required clinical trial administrative actions, slower than anticipated patient enrollment, changing standards of care, availability or prevalence of use of a comparator drug or required prior therapy, clinical outcomes, or our and our partners' financial constraints. The FDA and other U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion, at any phase of development, to terminate clinical trials, require additional clinical development or other testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and mandate product withdrawals, including recalls. Results attained in early human clinical trials may not be indicative of results in later clinical trials. In addition, many of our investigational or experimental drugs are at an early stage of development, and successful commercialization of early stage product candidates requires significant research, development, testing and approvals by regulators, and additional investment. Our products in the research or pre-clinical development stage may not yield results that would permit or justify clinical testing. Our failure to demonstrate adequately the safety and efficacy of a product under development would delay or prevent marketing approval, which could adversely affect our operating results and credibility. The failure of one or more of our product candidates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we or our collaborators do not obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates on a timely basis, or at all, or if the terms of any approval impose significant restrictions or limitations on use, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Setbacks in clinical development programs could have a material adverse effect on our business. Regulatory approvals are necessary to market product candidates and require demonstration of a product's safety and efficacy through extensive pre-clinical and clinical trials. We or our collaborators may not obtain regulatory approval for product candidates on a timely basis, or at all, and the terms of any approval (which in some countries includes pricing approval) may impose significant restrictions, limitations on use or other commercially unattractive conditions. We, our collaborators or regulators may also amend, suspend or terminate clinical trials if we or they believe that the participating subjects are being exposed to unacceptable health risks, and after reviewing trial results, we or our collaborators may abandon projects which we previously believed to be promising for commercial or other reasons unrelated to patient risks. During this process, we may find, for example, that results of pre-clinical studies are inconclusive or not indicative of results in human clinical trials, clinical investigators or contract research organizations do not comply with protocols or applicable regulatory requirements, or that product candidates do not have the desired efficacy or have undesirable side effects or other characteristics that preclude marketing approval or limit their potential commercial use if approved. In such circumstances, the entire development program for that product candidate could be adversely affected, resulting in delays in trials or regulatory filings for further marketing approval and a possible need to reconfigure our clinical trial programs to conduct additional trials or abandon the program involved. Conducting additional clinical trials or making significant revisions to a clinical development plan would lead to delays in regulatory filings. If clinical trials indicate, or regulatory bodies are concerned about, actual or possible serious problems with the safety or efficacy of a product candidate, such as the concerns expressed in the FDA's July 2012 Complete Response Letter or during consideration of the oral Relistor development program, we or our collaborators may stop or significantly slow development or commercialization of affected products. As a result of such concerns, the development programs for subcutaneous and/or oral Relistor for chronic, non-cancer pain patients may be significantly delayed or terminated altogether. Even if we agree to a path forward with Salix and the FDA, if the results of any future Relistor trials are not satisfactory or we or our collaborators encounter problems enrolling subjects, clinical trial supply issues, setbacks in developing drug formulations, including raw material-supply, manufacturing, stability or other difficulties, or issues complying with protocols or applicable regulatory requirements, the entire development program for Relistor could be adversely affected in a material manner. Such scenarios could also befall our other clinical-stage product candidates. If any of our collaborators breach or terminate its agreement with us or otherwise fail to conduct successfully and in a timely manner the collaborative activities for which they are responsible, the preclinical or clinical development or commercialization of the affected product candidate or research program could be delayed or terminated. We generally do not control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators devote to our programs or product candidates. We also do not know whether current or future collaboration partners, if any, might pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors, as a means for developing treatments for the diseases or conditions targeted by our collaborative arrangements. Setbacks of these types could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents We or our collaborators must design and conduct successful clinical trials for our product candidates to obtain regulatory approval. We rely on third parties for conduct of clinical trials, which reduces our control over them and may expose us to conflicts of interest. Clinical trial results may be unfavorable or inconclusive, and often take longer than expected. We have limited experience in conducting clinical trials, and we rely on or obtain the assistance of others to design, conduct, supervise or monitor some or all aspects of some of our clinical trials, including our ongoing phase 2 trials of PSMA ADC and 1404. We have less control over the timing and other aspects of clinical trials for which we rely on third parties, such as CROs, clinical data management organizations, medical institutions or clinical investigators, than if we conducted them entirely on our own. These third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. In all events, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. The FDA requires us to comply with good clinical practices for conducting and recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. To obtain regulatory approval of drug candidates, we must demonstrate through preclinical studies and clinical trials that they are safe and effective. Adverse or inconclusive clinical trial results concerning any of our drug candidates, or trials which regulators find deficient in scope, design or one or more other material respects, could require additional trials, resulting in increased costs, significant delays in submissions of approval applications, approvals in narrower indications than originally sought, or denials of approval, none of which we can predict. As a result, any projections that we publicly announce of commencement and duration of clinical trials are not certain. We have experienced clinical trial delays in the past as a result of slower than anticipated enrollment and such delays may recur. Delays can be caused by, among other things, deaths or other adverse medical events; regulatory or patent issues; interim or final results of ongoing clinical trials; failure to enroll clinical sites as expected; competition for enrollment from other clinical trials; scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and institutions; disagreements, disputes or other matters arising from collaborations; our inability to obtain necessary funding; or manufacturing problems. Under our license agreement, Salix generally has responsibility for conducting Relistor clinical trials, including all trials outside of the U.S. other than Japan, where Ono has that responsibility. In addition, certain clinical trials for our product candidates may be conducted by government-sponsored agencies, and consequently will be dependent on governmental participation and funding. These arrangements expose us to the same considerations we face when contracting with third parties for our own trials. Our product candidates may not obtain regulatory approvals needed for marketing. None of our product candidates, other than Relistor for the treatment of OIC in patients with advanced illnesses, has been approved by applicable regulatory authorities for marketing. The process of obtaining FDA and foreign regulatory approvals often takes many years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. We have had only limited experience in filing and pursuing applications and other submissions necessary to gain marketing approvals. Products under development may never obtain marketing approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities necessary for commercialization. Even if our product candidates obtain marketing approval, our ability to generate revenue will be diminished if our products are not accepted in the marketplace or our collaboration partners fail to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement for products from third-party payors or government agencies. The commercial success of our products will depend upon their acceptance by the medical community and third-party payors as clinically useful, cost effective and safe. Market acceptance of approved products, such as Relistor for patients with advanced illnesses, is affected by the timing of regulatory approvals, product launches and reimbursement programs for existing and expanded uses or generic, over-the-counter or other competitors; price increases for the product and relative prices of competing products; product development efforts for new indications; availability of sufficient commercial quantities of the product; success in arranging for necessary sublicense or distribution relationships; and general and industry-specific local and international economic pressures such as those experienced worldwide over the last five years. If health care providers believe that patients can be managed adequately with alternative, currently available therapies, they may not prescribe our products, especially if the alternative therapies are viewed as more effective, as having a better safety or tolerability profile, as being more convenient to the patient or health care providers or as being less expensive. Third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for any products we develop, alone or with collaborators. For pharmaceuticals administered in an institutional setting, the ability of the institution to be adequately reimbursed from government and health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors could also play a significant role in demand for our products. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly-approved pharmaceuticals. Government and other third-party payors increasingly are attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs and by refusing, in some cases, to provide coverage for uses of approved products for indications for which the FDA has not granted labeling approval. In some foreign markets, pricing and profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals are subject to government control. In the U.S., we expect that there will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar government control and that the emphasis on managed care in the U.S. will continue to put pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that our collaborators receive for any products in the future and adversely affect the ability of our collaborators to commercialize our products and our realization of royalties from commercialization. If any of our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will likely lose our entire investment in that product. 17 Table of Contents Marketplace acceptance depends in part on competition in our industry, which is intense, and competing products in development may adversely affect acceptance of our products. The extent to which any of our products achieves market acceptance will depend on competitive factors. Competition in the biopharmaceutical industry is intense and characterized by ongoing research and development and technological change. We face competition from many for-profit companies and major universities and research institutions in the U.S. and abroad. We face competition from companies marketing existing products or developing new products for diseases and conditions targeted by our technologies. We are aware of a number of products and product candidates, including those described in this Annual Report under Business – Competition, which compete or may potentially compete with Relistor, PSMA ADC or our other product candidates. For instance, there are product candidates in pre-clinical or clinical development that target the side effects of opioid pain therapy, and a marketed product for the treatment of post-operative ileus could compete with Relistor. We are aware of several competitors, including those described under Business – Competition, which have received approval for or are developing alternative treatments or diagnostics for castration-resistant prostate cancer, some of which are directed against PSMA. Any of these competing approved products or product candidates, or others which may be developed in the future, may achieve a significant competitive advantage relative to Relistor, PSMA ADC, 1404, Azedra, MIP-1095 or other product candidates. Competition with respect to our technologies and products is based on, among other things, product efficacy, safety, reliability, method of administration, availability, price and clinical benefit relative to cost; timing and scope of regulatory approval; sales, marketing and manufacturing capabilities; collaborator capabilities; insurance and other reimbursement coverage; and patent protection. Competitive disadvantages in any of these factors could materially harm our business and financial condition. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and experience and greater manufacturing, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we do. These competitors may develop products that are superior to those we are developing and render our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. Our products and product candidates under development may not compete successfully with existing products or product candidates under development by other companies, universities and other institutions. Drug manufacturers that are first in the market with a therapeutic for a specific indication generally obtain and maintain a significant competitive advantage over later entrants and therefore, the speed with which industry participants move to develop products, complete clinical trials, approve processes and commercialize products is an important competitive factor. If our product candidates receive marketing approval but cannot compete effectively in the marketplace, our operating results and financial position would suffer. If we or our collaborators are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of the raw and bulk materials needed to make our product candidates or Relistor, development of our product candidates or commercialization of our approved product could be slowed or stopped. Salix or Ono may not be able to fulfill manufacturing obligations for Relistor, a key raw material for which grows in Tasmania, either on their own or through third-party suppliers. A delay or disruption of supplies of Relistor would have a material adverse effect on the Relistor franchise, and therefore on our business as a whole. Our existing arrangements with suppliers for our other product candidates may not result in the supply of sufficient quantities of our product candidates needed to accomplish our clinical development programs, and we may not have the right and in any event do not currently have the capability to manufacture these products if our suppliers are unable or unwilling to do so. We currently arrange for supplies of critical raw materials used in production of our product candidates from single sources. We do not have long-term contracts with any of these suppliers. Any delay or disruption in the availability of raw materials would slow or stop product development and commercialization of the relevant product. Manufacturing resources could limit or adversely affect our ability to commercialize products. We or our collaborators engage third parties to manufacture our approved product and product candidates. We or our collaborators may not be able to obtain adequate supplies from third-party manufacturers in a timely fashion for development or commercialization purposes, and commercial quantities of products may not be available from contract manufacturers at acceptable costs. Under our license agreement with Salix, Salix is responsible for obtaining supplies of Relistor, including contracting with contract manufacturing organizations for supply of Relistor active pharmaceutical ingredient and subcutaneous and oral finished drug product. These arrangements may not be on terms that are advantageous and, as a result of our royalty and other interests in Relistor's commercial success, will subject us to risks that the counterparties may not perform optimally in terms of quality or reliability. In engaging third parties for these activities, we do not control many aspects of the manufacturing process, including compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) and other regulatory requirements. In order to commercialize our product candidates successfully, we or our collaborators need to be able to manufacture or arrange for the manufacture of products in commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, at acceptable costs and in a timely manner. Manufacture of our product candidates can be complex, difficult to accomplish even in small quantities, difficult to scale-up for large-scale production and subject to delays, inefficiencies and low yields of quality products. The cost of manufacturing some of our product candidates may make them prohibitively expensive. If adequate supplies of any of our product candidates or related materials are not available on a timely basis or at all, our clinical trials could be seriously delayed, since these materials are time consuming to manufacture and cannot be readily obtained from third-party sources. If we were to decide to establish a commercial-scale manufacturing facility in the future, we would require substantial additional funds and be required to hire and train significant numbers of employees and comply with applicable regulations. 18 Table of Contents Failure of any manufacturer of Relistor or our product candidates to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could subject us to penalties and have a material adverse effect on supplies of our product or products candidates. Third-party manufacturers are required to comply with cGMP or similar regulatory requirements outside of the U.S. If manufacturers of our product or product candidates cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to the strict regulatory requirements of the FDA and any applicable foreign regulatory authority, they may not be able to obtain any required approval for their manufacturing facilities. If these facilities are not approved for commercial manufacture, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which could result in delays of several years in obtaining approval for a product candidate. We do not control the manufacturing process and are completely dependent on our third-party manufacturing partners or contractors for compliance with the applicable regulatory requirements for the manufacture of Relistor and our product candidates. Manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies for compliance with cGMP and similar regulatory requirements. Failure of any manufacturer of Relistor or any of our product candidates to comply with applicable cGMP or other regulatory requirements could result in sanctions being imposed on our collaborators or us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspensions or withdrawals of approvals, operating restrictions, interruptions in supply and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of Relistor or such product candidate and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on patents and other intellectual property rights. The validity, enforceability and commercial value of our patents and other intellectual property rights are highly uncertain. We own or have direct or sub-licenses to a number of issued patents. We must obtain, maintain and enforce patent and other rights to protect our intellectual property. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical firms is highly uncertain and involves many complex legal and technical issues. There are many laws, regulations and judicial decisions that dictate and otherwise influence the manner in which patent applications are filed and prosecuted and in which patents are granted and enforced, all of which are subject to change from time to time. There is no clear policy involving the breadth of claims allowed, or the degree of protection afforded, under patents in this area. In addition, we are aware of others who have patent applications or patents containing claims similar to or overlapping those in our patents and patent applications. Accordingly, patent applications owned by or licensed to us may not result in patents being issued. Even if we own or license a relevant issued patent, we may not be able to preclude competitors from commercializing drugs that may compete directly with one or more of our products or product candidates, in which event such rights may not provide us with any meaningful competitive advantage. In the absence or upon successful challenge of patent protection, drugs may be subject to generic competition, which could adversely affect pricing and sales volumes of the affected products. It is generally difficult to determine the relative strength or scope of a biotechnology or pharmaceutical patent position in absolute terms at any given time. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability, which can be challenged in litigation or via administrative proceedings. The license agreements from which we derive or out-license intellectual property provide for various royalty, milestone and other payment, commercialization, sublicensing, patent prosecution and enforcement, insurance, indemnification and other obligations and rights, and are subject to certain reservations of rights. While we generally have the right to defend and enforce patents licensed to or by us, either in the first instance or if the licensor or licensee chooses not to do so, we must usually bear the cost of doing so. Under our license agreement with Salix, Salix generally has the first right to control the defense and enforcement of our Relistor patents. With respect to Japan, Ono has certain limited rights to prosecute, maintain and enforce relevant intellectual property. We may incur substantial costs in seeking to uphold the validity of patents or to prevent infringement. If the outcome of a dispute or contest is adverse to us, third parties may be able to use our patented invention without payment to us. Third parties may also avoid our patents through design innovation. Patents have a limited life and expire by law. In addition to uncertainties as to scope, validity, enforceability and changes in law, patents by law have limited lives. Upon expiration of patent protection, our drug candidates and/or products may be subject to generic competition, which could adversely affect pricing and sales volumes of the affected products. With respect to PSMA ADC, currently issued composition-of-matter patents comprising co-owned and in-licensed properties have expiration ranges of 2022 to 2023 in the U.S. and 2022 to 2026 ex-U.S. Corresponding patent applications as well as patent applications directed to methods of use (except for the U.S. patent expiring in 2023) are pending worldwide, which if issued would have expiration ranges from 2022 to 2029. We view all of these patents as significant. 19 Table of Contents Owned and in-licensed properties relating to the 1404 product candidate have expiration ranges of 2020 to 2029; we view as most significant the composition-of-matter patent on the compound, as well as technetium-99 labeled forms, which expires in 2029. Additional U.S. patents are directed to various inventions relating to the product candidate, and corresponding patent applications are pending worldwide. With regard to our Relistor-related intellectual property, the composition-of-matter patent for the active ingredient of Relistor, methylnaltrexone, was invented in the 1970's and has expired. The University, as well as Progenics and its collaborators, have extended the methylnaltrexone patent estate with additional patents and pending patent applications covering various inventions relating to the product. Salix has listed in the FDA Orange Book four U.S. patents relating to subcutaneous Relistor, which have expiration dates ranging from 2017 to 2030, and one patent (expiring in 2024) with Health Canada. A patent issued in September 2013 provides protection for the oral methylnaltrexone product until 2031. We depend on intellectual property licensed from third parties and unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. If we lose any of these rights, including by failing to achieve milestone requirements or to satisfy other conditions, or if they or data embodying or relevant to them are compromised by disruptions or breaches of information or data security, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Most of our product candidates, including Relistor, incorporate intellectual property licensed from third parties. For example, PSMA ADC utilizes technology licensed to us from Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research, through Cytogen Corporation, and Seattle Genetics, Inc. We can lose the right to patents and other intellectual property licensed to us if the related license agreement is terminated due to a breach by us or otherwise. Our ability, and that of our collaboration partners, to commercialize products incorporating licensed intellectual property would be impaired if the related license agreements were terminated. In addition, we are required to make substantial cash payments, achieve milestones and satisfy other conditions, including filing for and obtaining marketing approvals and introducing products, to maintain rights under our intellectual property licenses. Due to the nature of these agreements and the uncertainties of research and development, we may not be able to achieve milestones or satisfy conditions to which we have contractually committed, and as a result may be unable to maintain our rights under these licenses. If we do not comply with our license agreements, the licensors may terminate them, which could result in our losing our rights to, and therefore being unable to commercialize, related products. We also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. Third parties may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our technology or disclose our technology, and we may be unable to effectively protect our rights in unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. We require each of our employees, consultants and advisors to execute a confidentiality agreement at the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. These agreements may, however, not provide effective protection in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information. Any loss of trade secret protection or other unpatented technology rights could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Progenics and other businesses and organizations worldwide, and in particular technology-intensive activities such as biotechnology research and development, are increasingly dependent on critical, complex and interdependent information technology systems, including Internet-based systems, to facilitate or perform basic research and development functions, business processes, internal and external communications, and other critical functions. Progenics relies on such systems for most aspects of its business. The size and complexity of computer, communications and other electronic networked data generation, storage and transfer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion, computer viruses and data security breaches by unauthorized third parties, employees or others. Such events may permit unauthorized persons to access, misappropriate and/or destroy sensitive data and result in the impairment or disruption of important business processes, loss of trade secrets or other proprietary intellectual property or public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of employees, business partners, clinical trial patients, customers and others. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. If we do not achieve milestones or satisfy conditions regarding some of our product candidates, we may not maintain our rights under related licenses. We are required to make substantial cash payments, achieve milestones and satisfy other conditions, including filing for and obtaining marketing approvals and introducing products, to maintain rights under our intellectual property licenses. Due to the nature of these agreements and the uncertainties of research and development, we may not be able to achieve milestones or satisfy conditions to which we have contractually committed, and as a result may be unable to maintain our rights under these licenses. If we do not comply with our license agreements, the licensors may terminate them, which could result in our losing our rights to, and therefore being unable to commercialize, related products. 20 Table of Contents If we infringe third-party patent or other intellectual property rights, we may need to alter or terminate a product development program. There may be patent or other intellectual property rights belonging to others that require us to alter our products, pay licensing fees or cease certain activities. If our products infringe patent or other intellectual property rights of others, the owners of those rights could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of the affected products. If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. We may not prevail in any action brought against us, and any license required under any rights that we infringe may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We are aware of intellectual property rights held by third parties that relate to products or technologies we are developing. For example, we are aware of other groups investigating PSMA or related compounds, monoclonal antibodies directed at PSMA and targets relevant to PSMA ADC, and methylnaltrexone and other peripheral opioid antagonists, and of patents held, and patent applications filed, by these groups in those areas. While the validity of these issued patents, patentability of these pending patent applications and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if asserted against us, any related patent or other intellectual property rights could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products. Research, development and commercialization of a biopharmaceutical often requires choosing between alternative development and optimization routes at various stages in the development process. Preferred routes depend on subsequent discoveries and test results and cannot be predicted with certainty at the outset. There are numerous third-party patents in our field, and we may need to obtain a license under a patent in order to pursue the preferred development route of one or more of our products or product candidates. The need to obtain a license would decrease the ultimate profitability of the applicable product. If we cannot negotiate a license, we might have to pursue a less desirable development route or terminate the program altogether. We are dependent upon third parties for a variety of functions. These arrangements may not provide us with the benefits we expect. We rely on third parties to perform a variety of functions. We are party to numerous agreements which place substantial responsibility on clinical research organizations, consultants and other service providers for the development of our approved product and our product candidates. We also rely on medical and academic institutions to perform aspects of our clinical trials of product candidates. In addition, an element of our research and development strategy has been to in-license technology and product candidates from academic and government institutions in order to minimize investments in early research. We have entered into agreements under which we are now dependent on Ono and Salix for the commercialization and development of Relistor. We may not be able to maintain our relationships with them, or establish new ones for Relistor or other product candidates on beneficial terms. We may not be able to enter new arrangements without undue delays or expenditures, and these arrangements may not allow us to compete successfully. Moreover, if third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, meet expected deadlines or conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or applicable protocols, our product candidates may not be approved for marketing and commercialization or such approval may be delayed. If that occurs, we or our collaborators will not be able, or may be delayed in our efforts, to commercialize our product candidates. We lack sales and marketing infrastructure and related staff, which will require significant investment to establish and in the meantime may make us dependent on third parties for their expertise in this area. We have no established sales, marketing or distribution infrastructure. If we receive marketing approval for a pharmaceutical product, significant investment, time and managerial resources will be required to build the commercial infrastructure required to market, sell and support it. Should we choose to commercialize a product directly, we may not be successful in developing an effective commercial infrastructure or in achieving sufficient market acceptance. Alternatively, we may choose to market and sell products through distribution, co-marketing, co-promotion or licensing arrangements with third parties. We may also consider contracting with a third party professional pharmaceutical detailing and sales organization to perform the marketing function for one or more products. To the extent that we enter into distribution, co-marketing, co-promotion, detailing or licensing arrangements for the marketing and sale of product candidates, any revenues we receive will depend primarily on the efforts of third parties. We will not control the amount and timing of marketing resources these third parties devote to our products. 21 Table of Contents We are exposed to product liability claims, and in the future may not be able to obtain insurance against claims at a reasonable cost or at all. Our business exposes us to product liability risks, which are inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products. We may not be able to avoid product liability exposure. If a product liability claim is successfully brought against us, our financial position may be adversely affected. Under our license agreement with Salix, we are responsible for product liability claims arising out of clinical trials that were conducted under our supervision. We are indemnified by Salix under our license agreement with Salix for product liability exposure arising from its marketing and sales of Relistor, and maintain our own product liability insurance coverage in the amount of $10.0 million per occurrence, subject to a deductible and a $10.0 million annual aggregate limitation and other clinical trial or other insurance as required by contract and local laws. Pursuant to our transition agreement with Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, we released Wyeth from its indemnification responsibility for product liability exposure arising from its marketing and sales of Relistor. Product liability insurance for the biopharmaceutical industry is generally expensive, when available at all, and may not be available to us at a reasonable cost in the future. Our current insurance coverage and indemnification arrangements may not be adequate to cover claims brought against us, and are in any event subject to the insuring or indemnifying entity discharging its obligations to us. We handle hazardous materials and must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. If we are involved in a hazardous waste spill or other accident, we could be liable for damages, penalties or other forms of censure. Our research and development work and manufacturing processes involve the use of hazardous, controlled and radioactive materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. Despite procedures that we implement for handling and disposing of these materials, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury. In the event of a hazardous waste spill or other accident, we could be liable for damages, penalties or other forms of censure. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future. If we lose key management and scientific personnel on whom we depend, our business could suffer. We are dependent upon our key management and scientific personnel, the loss of whom could require us to identify and engage qualified replacements, and could cause our management and operations to suffer in the interim. Competition for qualified employees among companies in the biopharmaceutical industry is intense. Future success in our industry depends in significant part on the ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees, which we may not be successful in doing. Heath care reform measures could adversely affect our operating results and our ability to obtain marketing approval of and to commercialize our product candidates. In the U.S. and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the health care system that could prevent or delay marketing approval of our product candidates, restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our ability to profitably sell any product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. Legislative and regulatory proposals have been made to expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. In addition, increased scrutiny by the U.S. Congress of the FDA's approval process may significantly delay or prevent marketing approval, as well as subject us to more stringent product labeling and post-marketing testing and other requirements. In the U.S., federal legislation has changed the way Medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products. Cost reduction initiatives and other provisions of legislation have decreased coverage and reimbursement. Though such legislation applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates. More recent legislation is intended to broaden access to health insurance, further reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for health care and health insurance industries, and impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and additional health policy reforms. New laws impose significant annual fees on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products, and contain substantial new compliance provisions, which in each case may affect our business practices with health care practitioners. Subject to federal and state agencies issuing regulations or guidance, it appears likely that new laws will continue to pressure pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the Medicare program, and may also increase regulatory burdens and operating costs. We cannot be sure whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, whether the FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed or what the impact of such changes on the marketing approvals of our product candidates, if any, may be. 22 Table of Contents Our and/or our collaborators' relationships with customers and third-party payors will be subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us or them to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, program exclusion, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings. Health care providers, physicians and third-party payors play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. Our or our collaborators' future arrangements with third-party payors and customers may expose us or them to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other health care laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we or our collaborators market, sell and distribute our products that obtain marketing approval. Efforts to ensure that business arrangements comply with applicable health care laws and regulations involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our or our collaborators' business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If such operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or other applicable governmental regulations, we or the collaborator may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of related operations. If physicians or other providers or entities involved with our products are found to be not in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs, which may adversely affect us. We no longer derive significant funds from federal government grants and research contracts. While we have in the past been awarded federal government grants and research contracts, in particular from the National Institutes of Health, we do not currently have significant funding from such sources, and do not expect to apply for such funding in the foreseeable future. Our future depends on the proper management of our current and future business operations, including those of Molecular Insight, and their associated expenses. Our business strategy requires us to manage our business to provide for the continued development and potential commercialization of our proprietary and partnered product candidates. Our strategy also calls for us to undertake increased research and development activities and to manage an increasing number of relationships with partners and other third parties, while simultaneously managing the capital necessary to support this strategy. These tasks are significantly increased as a result of our acquisition of Molecular Insight. If we are unable to manage effectively our current operations and any growth we may experience, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we are unable to effectively manage our expenses, we may find it necessary to reduce our personnel-related costs through reductions in our workforce, which could harm our operations, employee morale and impair our ability to retain and recruit talent. Furthermore, if adequate funds are not available, we may be required to obtain funds through arrangements with partners or other sources that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, products or future economic rights that we would not otherwise relinquish or require us to enter into other financing arrangements on unfavorable terms. Progenics has a history of operating losses, as does Molecular Insight, which has also been reorganized under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Progenics has incurred substantial losses throughout its history. A large portion of our revenue has historically consisted of upfront and milestone from licensing transactions. We have reported operating losses for 2013 and 2012 and while we reported operating income for 2011, as a result of a one-time upfront payment from Salix, the timing and amount of any similar transactions in the future is highly unpredictable and uncertain. Without upfront or other such payments, we operate at a loss, due in large part to the significant research and development expenditures required to identify and validate new product candidates and pursue our development efforts. Moreover, we have derived no significant revenue from product sales and have only in the last several years derived revenue from royalties. We may not achieve significant product sales or royalty revenue for a number of years, if ever. We expect to incur net operating losses and negative cash flow from operations in the future, which could increase significantly if we expand our clinical trial programs and other product development efforts, including those attendant to the product candidates and programs originally developed by Molecular Insight. Our ability to achieve and sustain profitability is dependent in part on obtaining regulatory approval for and then commercializing our product candidates, either alone or with others. We may not be able to develop and commercialize products beyond subcutaneous Relistor for OIC in patients with advanced illness. Our operations may not be profitable even if any of our other product candidates under development are commercialized. Molecular Insight incurred net losses every year from its inception in 1997 and generated no significant revenue from product sales and only limited revenue from licenses. In December 2010, Molecular Insight filed a voluntary petition in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Massachusetts seeking relief under the provisions of Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (Case No. 10-23355). It operated its business and managed its properties as a debtor in possession under bankruptcy protection until emerging from bankruptcy in May 2011. 23 Table of Contents Our ability to use net operating losses to offset future taxable income is subject to certain limitations. We currently have significant net operating losses (NOLs) that may be used to offset future taxable income. The U.S. Internal Revenue Code limits the amount of taxable income that may be offset annually by NOL carryforwards after a change in control (generally greater than 50% change in ownership) of a loss corporation, and our use of NOL carryforwards may be further limited as a result of any future equity transactions that result in an additional change of control. Progenics' stock price has a history of volatility and may be affected by selling pressure, including in the event of substantial sales of Progenics stock by former Molecular Insight stockholders. You should consider an investment in Progenics stock as risky and invest only if you can withstand a significant loss. Our stock price has a history of significant volatility. It has varied between a high of $6.47 and a low of $2.53 in 2013 and between a high of $11.34 and a low of $1.41 in 2012. Factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock include the results of clinical trials and pre-clinical studies undertaken by us or others; delays, terminations or other changes in development programs; developments in marketing approval efforts, such as the FDA's July 2012 Complete Response Letter with respect to the sNDA for Relistor subcutaneous injection for the treatment of OIC in adult patients with chronic, non-cancer pain; developments in collaborator or other business relationships, particularly regarding Relistor, PSMA ADC or other significant products or programs; technological innovation or product announcements by us, our collaborators or our competitors; patent or other proprietary rights developments; governmental regulation; changes in reimbursement policies or health care legislation; safety and efficacy concerns about products developed by us, our collaborators or our competitors; our ability to fund ongoing operations; fluctuations in our operating results; general market conditions; and the reporting of or commentary on such matters by the press and others. At times, our stock price has been volatile even in the absence of significant news or developments. The stock prices of biotechnology companies and securities markets generally have been subject to dramatic price swings in recent years, and financial and market conditions during that period have resulted in widespread pressures on securities of issuers throughout the world economy. Our stockholders may be diluted, and the price of our common stock may decrease, as a result of future issuances of securities, exercises of outstanding stock options, or sales of outstanding securities. We expect to issue additional common stock in public offerings, private placements and/or through our January 2014 Sales Agreement with Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., pursuant to which we may sell from time to time up to $50 million of our stock, and to issue options to purchase common stock for compensation purposes. We may issue preferred stock, restricted stock units or securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for our common stock. All such issuances would dilute existing investors and could lower the price of our common stock. Sales of substantial numbers of outstanding shares of common stock, such as sales by former Molecular Insight stockholders of unregistered shares received in the acquisition (including shares held in a 15-month escrow which expires in April 2014), could also cause a decline in the market price of our stock. We require substantial external funding to finance our research and development programs and may seek such funding through the issuance and sale of our common stock, which we have recently done in follow-on primary offerings in late 2012, mid-2013 and February 2014. We have recently established a new shelf registration statement, which we used for our most recent offering and may be used to issue up to approximately an additional $110 million of common stock and other securities before any underwriter discounts, commissions and offering expenses. We also have in place registration statements covering shares issuable pursuant to our equity compensation plans, and sales of our securities under them could cause the market price of our stock to decline. Sales by existing stockholders or holders of options or other rights may have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our principal stockholders are able to exert significant influence over matters submitted to stockholders for approval. At 2013 year end, our directors and executive officers together beneficially owned or controlled approximately six percent of our outstanding common shares, including shares currently issuable upon option exercises, and our five largest other stockholders approximately 52 percent. Should these parties choose to act alone or together, they could exert significant influence in determining the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval and otherwise control our business. This control could, among other things, have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company, adversely affecting our stock price. Anti-takeover provisions may make removal of our Board and/or management more difficult, discouraging hostile bids for control that may be beneficial to our stockholders. Our Board is authorized, without further stockholder action, to issue from time to time shares of preferred stock in one or more designated series or classes. The issuance of preferred stock, as well as provisions in some outstanding stock options that provide for acceleration of exercisability upon a change of control, and Section 203 and other provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law could make a takeover or the removal of our Board or management more difficult; discourage hostile bids for control in which stockholders may receive a premium for their shares; and otherwise dilute the rights of common stockholders and depress the market price of our stock. 24 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We responded to SEC staff comments issued in the third quarter of 2013 regarding recent Exchange Act filings, substantially all of which were addressed in our third quarter Form 10-Q and resolved as of December 31, 2013. We amended our 2012 Form 10-K to address remaining comments on January 17, 2014 and the Staff informed us on January 22 that it has completed its review. 