Risk Factors, and other periodic filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, to which investors are referred for further information. We do not have a policy of updating or revising forward-looking statements, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K as a result of new information or future events or developments. Thus, you should not assume that our silence over time means that actual events are bearing out as expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act. The SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, including Progenics, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that we file with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. The public may also read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We also make available, free of charge, on or through our Internet website (http://www.progenics.com) our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy materials and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Item 1. Business Overview Progenics Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is a biopharmaceutical company focusing on the development and commercialization of innovative therapeutic products to treat the unmet medical needs of patients with debilitating conditions and life-threatening diseases. Our principal programs are directed toward gastroenterology, virology and oncology. We commenced principal operations in late 1988, and since that time we have been engaged primarily in research and development efforts, development of our manufacturing capabilities, establishment of corporate collaborations and raising capital. We do not currently have any commercial products. Gastroenterology In the area of gastroenterology, our work is focused on methylnaltrexone, which is our most advanced product candidate. In December 2005, we entered into a license and co-development agreement (the “Collaboration Agreement”) with Wyeth Pharmaceuticals (“Wyeth”) to develop and commercialize subcutaneous, intravenous and oral formulations of methylnaltrexone. Both the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and the European Medicines Agency (“EMEA”) have provisionally accepted the name RELISTOR™ as the proprietary name for methylnaltrexone. The Collaboration Agreement involves the development and commercialization of three formulations: (i) a subcutaneous formulation of RELISTOR, to be used in patients with opioid-induced constipation ("OIC"); (ii) an intravenous formulation of RELISTOR, to be used in patients with post-operative ileus; and (iii) an oral formulation of RELISTOR, to be used in patients with opioid-induced constipation. We have submitted a New Drug Application (“NDA”) to the FDA for marketing of the subcutaneous formulation of RELISTOR for treatment of OIC in patients receiving palliative care. See Gastroenterology and Licenses – Progenics Licenses – Wyeth, below. 1 Table of Contents Virology In the area of virology, we are developing viral-entry inhibitors for Human Immunodeficiency Virus (“HIV”), the virus that causes Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (“AIDS”), and Hepatitis C virus infection (“HCV”). These inhibitors are molecules designed to inhibit a virus’ ability to enter certain types of immune cells and liver cells. In May 2007, we announced positive results from a phase 1b trial of an intravenous formulation of our monoclonal antibody, PRO 140, in HIV-infected individuals. We are also investigating a subcutaneous formulation of PRO 140 with the goal of developing a long-acting, self-administered therapy for HIV infection. In January 2008, we initiated the phase 2 clinical program for PRO 140, which will involve both the intravenous and subcutaneous formulations. Hepatitis C is a major cause of chronic liver disease, affecting an estimated 4.1 million Americans of whom 3.2 million are chronically infected. We are exploring both monoclonal antibody and small molecule approaches in our HCV research and have identified lead molecules that potently inhibit viral entry in in vitro models. We are also engaged in research regarding a vaccine against HIV infection. See Virology, below. Oncology In the area of prostate cancer, we are developing a human monoclonal antibody-drug conjugate, consisting of a selectively targeted cytotoxic antibody directed against prostate specific membrane antigen (“PSMA”), a protein found on the surface of prostate cancer cells. We are also developing vaccines designed to stimulate an immune response to PSMA. Our PSMA programs are conducted through our wholly owned subsidiary, PSMA Development Company LLC (“PSMA LLC”), which prior to April 2006 was a joint venture with Cytogen Corporation (“Cytogen”). See Prostate Cancer, below. In the second quarter of 2007, we discontinued our GMK melanoma vaccine program. An independent data monitoring committee recommended that treatment in the European-based phase 3 trial, which began in 2001, be stopped because lack of efficacy was observed after an interim analysis. We have subsequently terminated our license agreement with Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center relating to this program. Product In-Licensing We seek out promising new products and technologies around which to build new development programs or enhance existing programs. We own the worldwide commercialization rights to each of our product candidates except RELISTOR, the commercialization of which is the responsibility of Wyeth under the Collaboration Agreement. 2 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the current status of our principal development programs and product candidates: Program/product candidates (note 1) Proposed Indication Status (note 2) Gastroenterology RELISTOR-Subcutaneous Treatment of opioid-induced constipation in patients receiving palliative care Applications for marketing submitted in the U.S., E.U., Australia and Canada; FDA action date of April 30, 2008 RELISTOR-Subcutaneous Treatment of opioid-induced constipation in patients receiving opioids for chronic pain not related to cancer, such as severe back pain Phase 3 RELISTOR-Subcutaneous Treatment of opioid-induced constipation in patients receiving opioids for pain during rehabilitation from an orthopedic surgical procedure Phase 2 RELISTOR-Intravenous Management of post-operative ileus Phase 3 (note 3) RELISTOR-Oral Treatment of opioid-induced constipation Phase 2 Virology HIV PRO 140 Treatment of HIV infection Phase 2 ProVax Treatment and prevention of HIV infection Research Hepatitis C (HCV) Viral entry inhibitors Treatment of HCV infection Research Oncology Prostate Cancer PSMA: Monoclonal antibody drug conjugate Recombinant protein vaccine Treatment of prostate cancer Immunotherapy for prostate cancer Pre-clinical Pre-clinical Viral-vector vaccine Immunotherapy for prostate cancer Pre-clinical (1) (2) RELISTOR is a trademark of Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, a division of Wyeth. “Research” means initial research related to specific molecular targets, synthesis of new chemical entities, assay development or screening for the identification of lead compounds. “Pre-clinical” means that a lead compound is undergoing toxicology, formulation and other testing in preparation for clinical trials. Phase 1-3 clinical trials are safety and efficacy tests in humans as follows: “Phase 1”: Evaluation of safety. “Phase 2”: Evaluation of safety, dosing and activity or efficacy. “Phase 3”: Larger scale evaluation of safety and efficacy. (3) For recent developments concerning this program, see Gastroenterology – RELISTOR – Intravenous RELISTOR, below. None of our product candidates has received marketing approval from the FDA or any other regulatory authority, and we have not yet received any revenue from the sale of any of them. We must receive marketing approval before we can commercialize any of our product candidates. 3 Table of Contents Gastroenterology About Opioids. Opioid-based medications such as morphine and codeine, which are often referred to as narcotics, are the mainstay used by healthcare practitioners to control moderate-to-severe pain. We estimate that approximately 240 million prescriptions for opioids are written annually in the U.S. Physicians prescribe opioids for patients receiving palliative care, undergoing surgery or experiencing chronic pain, as well as for other medical conditions. Opioids relieve pain by interacting with receptors that are located in the brain and spinal cord, which comprise the central nervous system. At the same time, opioids also activate receptors outside the central nervous system, resulting, in many cases, in undesirable side effects, including constipation, delayed gastric emptying, nausea and vomiting, itching and urinary retention. Current treatment options for opioid-induced constipation include laxatives and stool softeners, which are often therapeutically insufficient, are not recommended for chronic use and do not address the other associated side effects. As a result, many patients may have to stop or reduce their opioid therapy and many opt to endure pain in order to obtain relief from opioid-induced constipation and its associated side effects. RELISTOR RELISTOR is a selective, peripherally acting, mu-opioid-receptor antagonist that reverses certain side effects induced by opioid use. RELISTOR competes with opioid analgesics for binding sites on opioid receptors, and its chemical composition restricts its ability to cross the blood-brain barrier. As a result, RELISTOR “turns off” the effects of opioid analgesics outside the central nervous system, including the gastrointestinal tract, but does not interfere with opioid activity within the central nervous system, namely analgesia. RELISTOR is designed to treat OIC without interfering with the pain relief that the opioids provide, an important need not currently met by any approved drugs. To date, individuals treated with RELISTOR, in addition to opioid pain medications, have experienced a reversal of many of the side effects induced by opioids and have reported no diminution in pain relief. Methylnaltrexone has been studied in numerous clinical trials. To date, RELISTOR has been generally well tolerated and certain formulations have been active in inducing laxation in individuals suffering from OIC without interfering with pain relief. Under the Collaboration Agreement, we share with Wyeth the responsibilities for developing and obtaining marketing approval of RELISTOR. Wyeth is responsible for commercializing all three formulations of RELISTOR worldwide. We have an option, under certain circumstances, to co-promote the sale of any or all of the three formulations of RELISTOR in the United States. See Progenics Licenses – Wyeth, below. Some of our rights to RELISTOR arise under a license from the University of Chicago. See Progenics’ Licenses – UR Labs/University of Chicago, below. Subcutaneous RELISTOR. Our most advanced clinical experience with RELISTOR is as a treatment for opioid-induced constipation. Constipation is a serious medical problem for patients who are being treated with opioid medications. We estimate that each year in the U.S., approximately 1.5 million patients receiving palliative care experience opioid-induced constipation. We have completed two pivotal phase 3 clinical trials of the subcutaneous formulation of methylnaltrexone in individuals receiving palliative care, including cancer, AIDS and heart disease. We achieved positive results from these trials (studies 301 and 302), including extensions. All primary and secondary endpoints of both studies were met with statistical significance, and the investigational drug was generally well tolerated in both. In March 2007, we submitted an NDA to the FDA for marketing in the United States of a subcutaneous formulation of RELISTOR for the treatment of opioid-induced constipation in patients receiving palliative care. In May 2007, Wyeth submitted a regulatory marketing application to the EMEA for the subcutaneous formulation in the same patient population. Both applications were accepted for review in May 2007, which resulted in our earning $9.0 million in milestone payments from Wyeth under the Collaboration Agreement. The FDA review is expected to be completed by its Prescription Drug User Fee Act (“PDUFA”) date of April 30, 2008. In August 2007, Wyeth submitted a marketing application to the Therapeutic Goods Administration division of the Australian government, and in October 2007, it submitted a New Drug Submission marketing application for subcutaneous RELISTOR to Health Canada, the Health Products and Food branch of the Canadian regulatory agency. In October 2007, we and Wyeth commenced two additional clinical trials of the subcutaneous formulation of RELISTOR in individuals outside of the palliative care population: a phase 3 trial, conducted by Wyeth, in individuals with chronic pain not related to cancer, such as chronic severe back pain that requires treatment with opioids; and a phase 2 trial, conducted by us, in individuals rehabilitating from an orthopedic surgical procedure in whom opioids are used to control post-operative pain. 4 Table of Contents Intravenous RELISTOR. We are also developing, in collaboration with Wyeth, an intravenous formulation of RELISTOR for the management of post-operative ileus (“POI”), a temporary impairment of the gastrointestinal tract function. Of the patients who undergo surgery in the U.S. each year, approximately 2.4 million patients are at high risk for developing POI. Post-operative ileus is believed to be caused in part by the release by the body of endogenous opioids in response to the trauma of surgery and may be exacerbated by the use of opioids, such as morphine, in surgery and in the post-operative period. Post-operative ileus is a major factor in increasing hospital stay, as patients are typically not discharged until bowel function is restored. Development of the intravenous formulation of RELISTOR for POI has been granted “Fast Track” status from the FDA, which facilitates development and expedites regulatory review of drugs intended to address an unmet medical need for serious or life-threatening conditions. We and Wyeth have conducted two global pivotal phase 3 clinical trials to evaluate the safety and efficacy of intravenous RELISTOR for the treatment of POI in patients recovering from segmental colectomy surgical procedures. In October 2006, we earned a $5.0 million milestone payment under the Collaboration Agreement in connection with the initiation of the first phase 3 clinical trial. In October 2007, a third phase 3 intravenous RELISTOR study, being conducted by Wyeth, was initiated in individuals with POI following a ventral hernia repair via laparotomy or laparoscopy. In March 2008, we reported that preliminary results from the phase 3 segmental colectomy clinical trial conducted by Wyeth showed that treatment did not achieve the primary end point of the study: a reduction in time to recovery of gastrointestinal function (i.e., time to first bowel movement) as compared to placebo. The study also did not show that secondary measures of surgical recovery, including time to discharge eligibility, were superior to placebo. We and Wyeth are conducting the necessary analyses to determine greater clarity regarding the outcome of this clinical study, whose preliminary findings are inconsistent with results demonstrated in our previous phase 2 study of intravenous methylnaltrexone for the management of postoperative ileus. We are leading the second phase 3 trial of intravenous methylnaltrexone for management of POI, which is similar in design to the Wyeth study, and expect results of that trial to be reported by midyear 2008. Oral RELISTOR. We and Wyeth are also developing an oral formulation of RELISTOR for the treatment of opioid-induced constipation in patients with chronic pain. More than 215 million prescriptions are written annually for opioids and approximately 12 million patients in the U.S. use opioids chronically (i.e., six months or more), many of whom experience opioid-induced constipation. In March 2007, Wyeth began clinical testing of a new oral formulation of methylnaltrexone for the treatment of opioid-induced constipation, and in July 2007 we and Wyeth announced positive preliminary results from this phase 1 clinical trial. In October 2007, we and Wyeth announced the initiation of two four-week phase 2 clinical trials to evaluate daily dosing of this formulation and a different oral formulation in individuals with chronic, non-malignant pain who are being treated with opioids and are experiencing opioid-induced constipation. These studies are designed to evaluate these oral formulations separately. We and Wyeth plan to assess the safety and dose-response of oral methylnaltrexone as measured by the occurrence of spontaneous bowel movements during the treatment period. We expect the studies to assist in determining the formulation and doses to be advanced into phase 3 studies. Virology HIV Infection by HIV causes a slowly progressing deterioration of the immune system resulting in AIDS. HIV specifically infects cells that have the CD4 receptor on their surface, including T-lymphocytes, monocytes, macrophages and dendritic cells, all of which are critical components of the immune system. Receptors and co-receptors are structures on the surface of a cell to which a virus must bind in order to infect the cell. The devastating effects of HIV are largely due to the multiplication of the virus within these cells, resulting in their dysfunction and destruction. Viral infection occurs when the virus binds to a host cell, enters the cell, and by commandeering the cell’s own reproductive machinery, creates thousands of copies of itself within the host cell. This process is called viral replication. Our scientists and their collaborators have made important discoveries in understanding how HIV enters human cells and initiates viral replication. The Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS and the World Health Organization estimate that the number of individuals living with HIV in 2007 reached 33.2 million, including over 2.5 million new infections. In North America and Western and Central Europe, the number of people living with HIV continues to increase due to the life-prolonging effects of antiretroviral therapy, a steady number of new HIV infections in North America and an increased number of new HIV diagnoses in Western Europe. During 2007, there were over two million people living with HIV in those regions, including 78,000 who acquired HIV in the past year. Although the number of people living with HIV in those regions has continued to increase over recent years, the number of annual patient deaths has decreased to approximately 32,000 in 2007. 5 Table of Contents Five classes of products have received marketing approval from the FDA for the treatment of HIV infection and AIDS: nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (these are considered as different classes by researchers and prescribers alike and have non-overlapping resistance profiles), protease inhibitors, entry inhibitors and integrase inhibitors. Reverse transcriptase and protease inhibitors inhibit two different viral enzymes required for HIV to replicate once it has entered the cell. Entry inhibitors interrupt the viral life cycle at an earlier point, namely before HIV can bind to and transfer its genetic material into certain immune system cells in order to initiate the viral replication process. Since the late 1990s, many HIV patients have benefited from using a combined regimen of protease and reverse transcriptase inhibitor therapies, known as “combination therapy.” While combination therapy slows the progression of disease, it is not a cure. HIV’s rapid mutation rate results in the development of viral strains that are resistant to these inhibitors. Increasingly, after years of combination therapy, patients begin to develop resistance to them. The potential for resistance is increased by inconsistent dosing which leads to lower drug levels and permits ongoing viral replication. Inconsistent adherence with dosing requirements for HIV drugs is common in patients on combination therapies because these drug regimens often require multiple tablets to be taken at specific times each day. In addition, many of these currently approved drugs often produce toxic side effects in patients, affecting a variety of organs and tissues, including the peripheral nervous system and gastrointestinal tract. These side effects may result in patients interrupting or discontinuing therapy. Furthermore, as most HIV medications work inside the CD4 cell and are metabolized, they have the potential to interact with other medications and may exaggerate side effects or result in sub-therapeutic blood levels. Viral entry inhibitors such as our drug candidate PRO 140 represent a new class of drugs for HIV patients that may avoid many of the issues associated with current HIV medications. Our scientists, in collaboration with researchers at the Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center, or ADARC, described in an article in Nature in 1996 the discovery of a co-receptor for HIV on the surface of human immune system cells used for HIV entry. This co-receptor, CCR5, enables fusion of HIV with the cell membrane after binding of the virus to the CD4 receptor. This fusion step results in entry of the viral genetic information into the cell and subsequent viral replication. Our PRO 140 program is based on blocking binding of HIV to the CCR5 co-receptor. Further work by other scientists has established the existence of a second co-receptor, CXCR4, which is considered to be less ubiquitous for HIV-1 viral entry. Based on our pioneering research, we believe we are a leader in the discovery of viral entry inhibitors, a promising new class of HIV therapeutics. We believe viral entry inhibitors could become the next generation of HIV therapy. PRO 140 is a humanized monoclonal antibody designed to block HIV infection by inhibiting the virus’ ability to bind to and enter immune system cells and initiate the viral replication process. We have designed PRO 140 to target a distinct site on the co-receptor CCR5 without interfering with CCR5’s role, which includes, in part, directing the migration of immune cells to sites of inflammation in the body. PRO 140 has shown promising activity in pre-clinical studies. In in vitro studies, PRO 140 demonstrated potent, broad-spectrum antiviral activity against more than 40 genetically diverse “primary” HIV viruses isolated directly from infected individuals. Single doses of a murine-based PRO 140 reduced viral burdens to undetectable levels in an animal model of HIV infection. In mice treated with murine PRO 140, initially high HIV concentrations became undetectable for up to nine days after a single dose. Additionally, multiple doses of murine PRO 140 reduced and then maintained viral loads at undetectable levels for the duration of therapy in an animal model of HIV infection. Sustaining undetectably low levels of virus in the blood is a primary goal of HIV therapy. In mid-2005, we completed a phase 1 study of humanized PRO 140 designed to evaluate the tolerability, safety, pharmacology and immunogenicity of PRO 140 in healthy volunteers. PRO 140 was generally well tolerated at all dose levels in this study. In February 2006, we received “Fast Track” designation from the FDA for PRO 140. In December 2006, we completed enrollment and dosing in a phase 1b clinical trial of PRO 140. This clinical trial was designed to assess the tolerability, pharmacokinetics and preliminary antiviral activity of PRO 140 in 39 HIV-positive individuals. This multi-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose-escalation study was conducted in individuals who had not taken any anti-retroviral therapy within the previous three months and who had HIV plasma concentrations greater than or equal to 5,000 copies/mL. Subjects received a single intravenous dose of study medication ¾ either placebo or one of three increasingly higher doses of PRO 140. PRO 140 blood levels and CCR5 coating were determined and compared with antiviral effects measured as changes in plasma HIV viral load following treatment. In May 2007, we announced positive results from this trial. Subjects receiving a single 5.0 mg/kg dose of PRO 140, which was the highest dose tested, achieved an average maximum decrease of viral concentrations in the blood of 98.5% (1.83 log10). In these infected individuals, reductions in viral load of greater than 90% (1.0 log10) on average persisted for two to three weeks after dosing. In addition, PRO 140 was generally well tolerated in this phase 1b proof-of-concept study. 6 Table of Contents We are also developing a subcutaneous formulation of PRO 140 with the goal of developing a long-acting, self-administered therapy for HIV infection. In January 2008, we initiated the phase 2 clinical program for PRO 140, which will investigate multiple dose levels of PRO 140 via intravenous and subcutaneous routes of administration. The intravenous dose will be evaluated up to 10 mg/kg, which is double the dose previously tested in the phase 1b study. The objective of these phase 2 studies is to identify an optimal dosing regimen of PRO 140 for evaluation in pivotal clinical trials as well as to further assess the investigational drug's safety and tolerability. We currently believe that intravenous PRO 140 has the potential for infrequent (e.g., monthly) dosing, whereas subcutaneous PRO 140 may enable self-administration as infrequently as every two weeks. The “humanized” version of PRO 140 was developed for us by PDL BioPharma, Inc. (formerly, Protein Design Labs, Inc.) See Progenics’ Licenses—PDL Biopharma, Inc., below. During 2005, we were awarded a $9.7 million grant from the National Institutes of Health (the “NIH”) to partially fund our PRO 140 program over a 42-month period. ProVax is our vaccine product candidate under development for the prevention of HIV infection or as a therapeutic treatment for HIV-positive individuals. We are currently performing government-funded research and development of the ProVax vaccine in collaboration with the Weill Medical College of Cornell University. ProVax contains critical surface proteins whose form closely mimics the structures found on HIV. In a pre-clinical model, ProVax stimulated the production of specific HIV neutralizing antibodies. When tested in the laboratory, these antibodies inactivated certain strains of HIV isolated from infected individuals. The vaccine-stimulated neutralizing antibodies were observed to bind to the surface of the virus, rendering it non-infectious. Such neutralizing antibodies against HIV have been difficult to induce with vaccines currently in development. In September 2003, we were awarded a contract by the NIH to develop a prophylactic vaccine designed to prevent HIV from becoming established in uninfected individuals exposed to the virus. Funding under the NIH Contract provided for pre-clinical research, development and early clinical testing. These funds are being used principally in connection with our ProVax HIV vaccine program. The NIH Contract originally provided for up to $28.6 million in funding to us, subject to annual funding approvals and compliance with its terms, over five years. The total of our approved award under the NIH Contract through September 2008 is $15.5 million. Funding under this contract includes the payment of an aggregate of $1.6 million in fees, subject to achievement of specified milestones. Through December 31, 2007, we had recognized revenue of $13.3 million from this contract, including $180,000 for the achievement of two milestones. We have recently been informed by the NIH that it has decided not to fund this Contract beyond September 2008. To continue to develop the HIV vaccine after that time, therefore, we will need to provide funding on our own or obtain new governmental or other funding. If we choose not to provide our own or cannot secure governmental or other funding, we will discontinue this project. Hepatitis C Viral Entry Inhibitor We are conducting research into therapeutics for Hepatitis C virus infection that block viral entry into cells. We are exploring both monoclonal antibody and small molecule approaches in our HCV research and have identified lead molecules that potently inhibit viral entry in in vitro models. Hepatitis C is a major cause of chronic liver disease. According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, an estimated 4.1 million Americans (1.6%) have been infected with HCV, of whom 3.2 million are chronically infected, most as a result of illegal injection drug use. Its estimated number of new HCV infections in 2006 was approximately 19,000. Oncology Prostate cancer is the most common cancer affecting men in the U.S. and is the leading cause of cancer deaths in men each year. The National Cancer Institute estimates that, based on rates from 2002-2004, one in six men will be diagnosed with cancer of the prostate during their lifetime. The American Cancer Society estimated that 186,320 new cases of prostate cancer would be diagnosed and that 28,660 men would die from the disease in 2008 in the U.S. 7 Table of Contents Conventional therapies for prostate cancer include radical prostatectomy, in which the prostate gland is surgically removed, radiation and hormone therapies and chemotherapy. Surgery and radiation therapy may result in urinary incontinence and impotence. Hormone therapy and chemotherapy are generally not intended to be curative and are not actively used to treat localized, early-stage prostate cancer. PSMA. We have been engaged in research and development programs relating to vaccine and antibody therapies directed against prostate specific membrane antigen, or PSMA, a protein that is abundantly expressed on the surface of prostate cancer cells as well as cells in the newly formed blood vessels of most other solid tumors. We believe that PSMA has applications in therapies for prostate cancer and potentially for other types of cancer. In June 1999, we and Cytogen formed a joint venture with equal membership interests for the purposes of conducting research, development, manufacturing and marketing of products related to PSMA. With certain limited exceptions, all patents and know-how owned by us or Cytogen and used or useful in the development of PSMA-based antibody or vaccine immunotherapies were licensed to the joint venture. The principal intellectual property licensed initially were several patents and patent applications relating to PSMA owned by Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. In April 2006, we acquired Cytogen’s entire membership interest in PSMA LLC for $13.2 million cash, together with $0.3 million of transaction costs. In connection with the acquisition, the license agreement entered into by Cytogen and us upon the formation of PSMA LLC, under which Cytogen had granted a license to PSMA LLC for certain PSMA-related intellectual property, was amended to provide that Cytogen granted an exclusive, even as to Cytogen, worldwide license to PSMA LLC to use certain PSMA-related intellectual property in a defined field. Under the terms of this amended license agreement, PSMA LLC will pay to Cytogen, upon the achievement of certain defined regulatory and sales milestones, if ever, up to $52 million, and will also pay royalties on net sales, as defined. Since our acquisition of Cytogen’s interest, we are continuing to conduct the PSMA-related programs on our own through PSMA LLC, now our wholly-owned subsidiary. In December 2002, PSMA LLC initiated a phase 1 clinical trial, conducted pursuant to a physician IND by Sloan-Kettering, with its therapeutic recombinant protein vaccine. The vaccine, which is designed to stimulate a patient’s immune system to recognize and destroy prostate cancer cells, combines the PSMA cancer antigen (recombinant soluble PSMA, or “rsPSMA”) with an immune stimulant to induce an immune response against prostate cancer cells. The genetically engineered PSMA vaccine generated potent immune responses in pre-clinical animal testing. This clinical trial was designed to evaluate the safety, immunogenicity and immune-stimulating properties of the vaccine in individuals with either newly diagnosed or recurrent prostate cancer. Preliminary findings from the trial showed that certain prostate cancer patients produced anti-PSMA antibodies in response to the vaccine. We have conducted additional research to optimize the production, immune response and anti-tumor activity of the vaccine prior to conducting additional testing. We plan to initiate additional phase 1 clinical studies with an optimized version of the vaccine in 2008. We are also pursuing a vaccine program that utilizes viral vectors designed to deliver the PSMA gene to immune system cells in order to generate potent and specific immune responses to prostate cancer cells. In pre-clinical studies, this vaccine generated a potent dual response against PSMA, yielding a response by both antibodies and killer T-cells, the two principal mechanisms used by the immune system to eliminate abnormal cells. We are completing pre-clinical development activities on the PSMA viral-vector vaccine. We have also developed human monoclonal antibodies which bind to PSMA. These antibodies, which were developed under license from Amgen Fremont, Inc. (formerly Abgenix, Inc.), are designed to recognize the three-dimensional physical structure of the protein and possess a high affinity and specificity for PSMA. We are investigating a PSMA monoclonal antibody-drug conjugate (“PSMA ADC”) using one of these human monoclonal antibodies. See PSMA Licenses – Seattle Genetics, below. In September 2005, PSMA LLC reported that in a mouse model of human prostate cancer, mice given the experimental drug PSMA ADC had survival times of up to nine-fold longer than mice not treated with the drug. In 2004, the NIH awarded us three grants totaling $8 million to be paid over up to four years in support of our PSMA efforts. In November 2007, we were awarded additional grants totaling $1.9 million by the NIH, the proceeds of which are to be disbursed over two years to partially fund work on the PSMA projects described above. Funding under these grants is being used for that work, including the development and initiation of clinical testing of the novel antibody-drug conjugate and vaccine therapies that target PSMA. 8 Table of Contents Licenses We are a party to license agreements under which we have obtained rights to use certain technologies in our product development programs. PSMA LLC, our wholly owned subsidiary, has also entered into license agreements with third parties. Set forth below is a summary of the more significant of these licenses. Progenics’ Licenses Wyeth. At inception of the Collaboration Agreement, Wyeth paid to us a $60 million non-refundable upfront payment. Wyeth has made $14.0 million in milestone payments since that time and is obligated to make up to $342.5 million in additional payments to us upon the achievement of milestones and contingent events in the development and commercialization of RELISTOR. Costs for the development of RELISTOR incurred by Wyeth or us starting January 1, 2006 are paid by Wyeth. We are being reimbursed for our out-of-pocket development costs by Wyeth and receive reimbursement for our efforts based on the number of our full time equivalent employees (“FTE”s) devoted to the development project. Wyeth has the right once annually to engage an independent public accounting firm to audit expenses for which we have been reimbursed during the prior three years. If the accounting firm concludes that any such expenses have been understated or overstated, a reconciliation will be made. Wyeth is obligated to pay to us royalties on the sale of RELISTOR by Wyeth throughout the world during the applicable royalty periods. In January 2006, we began recognizing revenue from Wyeth for reimbursement of our development expenses for RELISTOR as incurred during each quarter under the development plan agreed to by us and Wyeth. We also began recognizing revenue for a portion of the $60 million upfront payment we received from Wyeth, based on the proportion of the expected total effort for us to complete our development obligations, as reflected in the most recent development plan and budget approved by us and Wyeth, that was actually performed during that quarter. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we recognized $16.4 million of revenue from the $60 million upfront payment received in December 2005 and $40.1 million as reimbursement for our out-of-pocket development costs, including our labor costs. In March 2007, we earned $9.0 million in milestone payments in connection with submission and approval for review of a New Drug Application with the FDA in the U.S. and a comparable filing in the European Union for the subcutaneous formulation of RELISTOR in patients receiving palliative care, which were recognized as revenue under the Substantive Milestone method (see Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies – Revenue Recognition, below). From inception of the Collaboration Agreement to December 31, 2007, we recognized $35.2 million of revenue from the $60 million upfront payment, $74.7 million as reimbursement for our out-of-pocket development costs, including our labor costs and $14.0 million in milestone payments. The Collaboration Agreement establishes a Joint Steering Committee and a Joint Development Committee, each with an equal number of representatives from both Wyeth and us. The Joint Steering Committee is responsible for coordinating the key activities of Wyeth and us under the Collaboration Agreement. The Joint Development Committee is responsible for overseeing, coordinating and expediting the development of RELISTOR by Wyeth and us. In addition, a Joint Commercialization Committee was established, composed of representatives of both Wyeth and us in number and function according to each of our responsibilities, with responsibility for facilitating open communication between Wyeth and us on matters relating to the commercialization of products. Under the Collaboration Agreement, we granted to Wyeth an exclusive, worldwide license to develop and commercialize RELISTOR. We are responsible for developing the subcutaneous and intravenous formulations of RELISTOR in the United States, until the drug formulations receive regulatory approval. Wyeth is responsible for the development of the subcutaneous and intravenous formulations of RELISTOR outside of the United States. Wyeth is responsible for the development of the oral formulation of RELISTOR, both within the United States and in the rest of the world. In the event the Joint Steering Committee approves for development any formulation of methylnaltrexone other than the subcutaneous, intravenous or oral formulations, or any other indication for a product using any formulation of methylnaltrexone, Wyeth will be responsible for development of such products, including conducting clinical trials and obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval and we will receive royalties on all sales. We will remain the owner of all U.S. regulatory filings and approvals relating to the subcutaneous and intravenous formulations of RELISTOR; Wyeth will be the owner of all U.S. regulatory filings and approvals related to the oral formulation. Wyeth will be the owner of all regulatory filings and approvals outside the United States relating to all formulations of RELISTOR. Wyeth is responsible for the commercialization of the subcutaneous, intravenous and oral formulations, should they be approved as products, throughout the world, will pay all costs of commercialization of all products, including all manufacturing costs, and will retain all proceeds from the sale of the products, subject to the royalties payable by Wyeth to us. Decisions with respect to commercialization of any products developed under the Collaboration Agreement will be made solely by Wyeth. We have transferred to Wyeth all existing supply agreements with third parties for RELISTOR and have sublicensed any intellectual property rights to permit Wyeth to manufacture or have manufactured RELISTOR, during the development and commercialization phases of the Collaboration Agreement, in both bulk and finished form for all products worldwide. Progenics has no further manufacturing obligations under the Collaboration Agreement. 9 Table of Contents We have an option to co-promote any of the products developed under the Collaboration Agreement, subject to certain conditions. The extent of our co-promotion activities and the fee that we will be paid by Wyeth for our activities will be established if, as and when we exercise our option. Wyeth will record all sales of products worldwide (including those sold by us, if any, under a co-promotion agreement). Wyeth may terminate any co-promotion agreement if a top-15 pharmaceutical company acquires control of us, and has agreed to certain limitations regarding its ability to purchase our equity securities and to solicit proxies. The Collaboration Agreement extends, unless terminated earlier, on a country-by-country and product-by-product basis, until the last-to-expire royalty period for any product. Progenics may terminate the Collaboration Agreement at any time upon 90 days written notice to Wyeth upon Wyeth’s material uncured breach (30 days in the case of breach of a payment obligation). Wyeth may, with or without cause, following the second anniversary of the first commercial sale, as defined, of the first commercial product in the U.S., terminate the Collaboration Agreement by providing Progenics with at least 360 days prior written notice. Wyeth may also terminate the agreement (i) upon 30 days written notice following one or more specified serious safety or efficacy issues that arise and (ii) upon 90 days written notice of a material uncured breach by Progenics. Upon termination of the Collaboration Agreement, the ownership of the license we granted to Wyeth will depend on which party initiates the termination and the reason for the termination. UR Labs/University of Chicago. In 2001, we entered into an exclusive sublicense agreement with UR Labs, Inc. (“URL” or “UR Labs”) to develop and commercialize methylnaltrexone in exchange for rights to future payments (the “Methylnaltrexone Sublicense”). The rights URL granted us under this Sublicense were derived from a 1985 agreement that it had made with the University of Chicago (the “URL-Chicago License”). At the time we entered into the Methylnaltrexone Sublicense with URL, URL also entered into an agreement (the “URL-Goldberg Agreement”) with certain heirs of Dr. Leon Goldberg (the “Goldberg Distributees”), which provided them with the right to receive payments based upon revenues received by URL from the development of the Methylnaltrexone Sublicense and for URL’s obligation to make royalty payments to the University of Chicago. As of December 22, 2005, we had paid $550,000 to UR Labs and $500,000 to the University of Chicago under the Methylnaltrexone Sublicense. As described below, subsequent to that date we are not obligated to make any additional payments under the Methylnaltrexone Sublicense. In December 2005, we acquired substantially all of the assets of URL, comprised of its rights under the URL-Chicago License, the Methylnaltrexone Sublicense and the URL-Goldberg Agreement, thus assuming URL’s rights and responsibilities under those agreements and extinguishing our obligation to make royalty and other payments to URL. At the same time, we entered into an agreement with the Goldberg Distributees, under which we assumed all their rights and obligations under the URL-Goldberg Agreement, thereby extinguishing URL’s (and, consequentially, our) obligations to make payments to them. In consideration for the assignment of the Goldberg Distributees’ rights and of the acquisition of the assets of URL described above, we issued a total of 686,000 shares of our common stock, with a fair value at the time of $15.8 million, and paid a total of $2,604,900 in cash to URL’s shareholders and the Goldberg Distributees, together with $310,000 in transaction fees, the total amount of which was expensed in the period of the transaction. During 2006 and 2007, we entered into two agreements with the University of Chicago which give us the option to license certain of its intellectual property over defined option periods. As of December 31, 2007, we have paid the University of Chicago $310,000 and may make payments aggregating $890,000 over the option periods. Although we no longer have any obligation to make royalty payments to URL or the Goldberg Distributees, we continue to have an obligation to make those payments (including royalties) to the University of Chicago that would have been made by URL under the URL-Goldberg Agreement. PDL BioPharma, Inc. (formerly Protein Design Labs). Under a license agreement, PDL Biopharma, Inc. (“PDL”) developed for us a humanized PRO 140 monoclonal antibody and granted to us related exclusive and nonexclusive worldwide licenses under patents, patent applications and know-how. In general, the license agreement terminates on the later of ten years from the first commercial sale of a product developed under the agreement or the last date on which there is an unexpired patent or a patent application that has been pending for less than ten years, unless sooner terminated. Thereafter, the license is fully paid. The last of the currently issued relevant patents expires in 2014; pending U.S. and international patent applications and patent term extensions may however, extend the period of our license rights when and if such applications are allowed and issued or extensions are granted. We may terminate the license agreement on 60 days prior written notice. In addition, either party may terminate the license agreement, upon ten days written notice, for payment default or upon 30 days prior written notice for uncured breach of other material terms. As of December 31, 2007, we have paid to PDL $4.05 million under this agreement. If all milestones specified under the agreement are achieved, we will be obligated to pay PDL an additional approximately $3.0 million. We are also required to pay annual maintenance fees of $150,000 from April 30, 2007 and royalties based on the sale of products we develop under the license. 10 Table of Contents Columbia University. We are party to a license agreement with Columbia University under which we obtained exclusive, worldwide rights to specified technology and materials relating to CD4. In general, the license agreement terminates (unless sooner terminated) upon the expiration of the last to expire of the licensed patents, which is currently 2021; patent applications that we have also licensed and patent term extensions may however, extend the period of our license rights, when and if the patent applications are allowed and issued or patent term extensions are granted. This license agreement requires us to achieve development milestones, including filing for marketing approval of a drug by June 2001 and manufacturing a drug for commercial distribution by June 2004. We have not achieved either of these milestones due to delays that we believe could not have been reasonably avoided and are reasonably beyond our control. As of December 31, 2006, we were obligated to pay Columbia a milestone fee of $225,000 and four annual maintenance fees of $50,000 each, which had been accrued but not paid, in accordance with an oral understanding that suspended our obligation to make such payments until a time in the future to be agreed upon by the parties. In addition, we were required to pay royalties based on the sale of products we develop under the license, if any. We have had discussions with Columbia regarding the terms of an agreement under which we would relinquish all rights related to the license agreement with Columbia in exchange for making a one-time payment of $300,000, which was accrued at December 31, 2007, and previously due milestone and maintenance fees as well as future royalty payments would be cancelled. These discussions have not yet resulted in a formal agreement. As of December 31, 2007, we have paid Columbia a total of $865,000 under this license agreement. Aquila Biopharmaceuticals. We have entered into a license and supply agreement with Aquila Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Aquila”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Antigenics Inc. (“Antigenics”), pursuant to which Aquila agreed to supply us with all of our requirements for the QS-21™ adjuvant used in GMK, a program that we terminated in development in the second quarter of 2007. QS-21 is the lead compound in the Stimulon® family of adjuvants developed and owned by Aquila. In general, the license agreement terminates upon the expiration of the last to expire of the licensed patents, unless sooner terminated. In the U.S., the licensed patent will expire in 2008. Our license agreement requires us to achieve development milestones. The agreement states that we are required to have filed for marketing approval of a drug by 2001 and to commence the manufacture and distribution of a drug by 2003. We have not achieved these milestones due to delays that we believe could not have been reasonably avoided. We believe that these delays satisfy the criteria for a revision, contemplated by the agreement, of the milestone dates. Aquila has not consented to a revision of the milestone dates as of the date of this document. In the event of a default by one party, the agreement may be terminated, after an opportunity to cure, by the non-defaulting party upon prior written notice. We have received a written communication from Antigenics alleging that Progenics is in default of certain of its obligations under the license agreement and asserting that Antigenics has an interest in certain intellectual property of Progenics. Progenics has responded in writing denying Antigenics’ allegations. We do not believe that this dispute will have any material effect on us. As of December 31, 2007, we have paid to Aquila $769,000 under this agreement. We have no future cash payment obligations relating to milestones under the agreement. KMT Hepatech, Inc. In October 2006, we and KMT Hepatech, Inc. (“KMT”) entered into a Research Services Agreement, under which KMT will test certain compounds (“Compounds”) related to our HCV research program. In consideration for KMT’s services, we made an upfront payment for certain services, will reimburse KMT for direct costs incurred by it in rendering the services and will make additional payments upon our request for additional services. As of December 31, 2007, we have paid KMT a total of $175,000 in connection with this agreement. We will also make one-time development milestone payments, aggregating up to $6.0 million, upon the occurrence of defined events in respect of any Compound. In the event that we terminate development of a Compound, certain of those development milestone payments will be credited to the development milestones achieved by the next Compound. The KMT agreement will terminate upon its second anniversary unless terminated sooner. The parties may extend the term of the KMT agreement by mutual written consent. Either party may terminate the KMT agreement upon 60 days written notice to the other party. In the event of an uncured default by either party, including non-performance, bankruptcy or liquidation or dissolution, the non-defaulting party may terminate the KMT agreement upon 30 days written notice. 11 Table of Contents PSMA LLC Licenses Amgen Fremont, Inc. (formerly Abgenix). In February 2001, PSMA LLC entered into a worldwide exclusive licensing agreement with Abgenix to use its XenoMouse™ technology for generating fully human antibodies to PSMA LLC’s PSMA antigen. In consideration for the license, PSMA LLC paid a nonrefundable, non-creditable license fee and is obligated to pay additional payments upon the occurrence of defined milestones associated with the development and commercialization program for products incorporating an antibody generated utilizing the XenoMouse technology. As of December 31, 2007, PSMA LLC has paid to Abgenix $850,000 under this agreement. If PSMA LLC achieves certain milestones specified under the agreement, it will be obligated to pay Abgenix up to an additional $6.25 million. In addition, PSMA LLC is required to pay royalties based upon net sales of antibody products, if any. This agreement may be terminated, after an opportunity to cure, by Abgenix for cause upon 30 days prior written notice. PSMA LLC has the right to terminate this agreement upon 30 days prior written notice. If not terminated early, this agreement continues until the later of the expiration of the XenoMouse technology patents that may result from pending patent applications or seven years from the first commercial sale of the products. AlphaVax Human Vaccines. In September 2001, PSMA LLC entered into a worldwide exclusive license agreement with AlphaVax Human Vaccines to use the AlphaVax Replicon Vector system to create a therapeutic prostate cancer vaccine incorporating PSMA LLC’s proprietary PSMA antigen. In consideration for the license, PSMA LLC paid a nonrefundable, noncreditable license fee and is obligated to make additional payments upon the occurrence of certain defined milestones associated with the development and commercialization program for products incorporating AlphaVax’s system. As of December 31, 2007, PSMA LLC has paid to AlphaVax $1.4 million under this agreement. If PSMA LLC achieves certain milestones specified under the agreement, it will be obligated to pay AlphaVax up to an additional $5.4 million. In addition, PSMA LLC is required to pay annual maintenance fees of $100,000 until the first commercial sale and royalties based upon net sales of any products developed using AlphaVax’ system. This agreement may be terminated, after an opportunity to cure, by AlphaVax under specified circumstances, including PSMA LLC’s failure to achieve milestones; the consent of AlphaVax to revisions to the milestones due dates may not, however, be unreasonably withheld. PSMA LLC has the right to terminate the agreement upon 30 days prior written notice. If not terminated early, this agreement continues until the later of the expiration of the patents relating to AlphaVax’s system or seven years from the first commercial sale of the products developed using that system. The last of the currently issued patents expires in 2015; pending U.S. and international patent applications and patent term extensions may, however, extend the period of our license rights when and if such applications are allowed and issued or extensions are granted. Seattle Genetics. In June 2005, PSMA LLC entered into a collaboration agreement with Seattle Genetics, Inc. (“SGI”). Under this agreement, SGI provided to PSMA LLC an exclusive worldwide license to its proprietary antibody-drug conjugate technology (the “ADC Technology”). Under the license, PSMA LLC has the right to use the ADC Technology to link cell-killing drugs to PSMA LLC’s monoclonal antibodies that target prostate-specific membrane antigen. During the initial research term of the agreement, SGI also is required to provide technical information to PSMA LLC related to implementation of the licensed technology, which period may be extended for an additional period upon payment of an additional fee. PSMA LLC may replace prostate-specific membrane antigen with another antigen, subject to certain restrictions, upon payment of an antigen replacement fee. The ADC Technology is based, in part, on technology licensed by SGI from third parties . PSMA LLC is responsible for research, product development, manufacturing and commercialization of all products under the SGI agreement. PSMA LLC may sub-license the ADC Technology to a third party to manufacture the ADC’s for both research and commercial use. PSMA LLC made a technology access payment to SGI upon execution of the SGI agreement and will make additional maintenance payments during its term. In addition, PSMA LLC will make payments aggregating up to $15.0 million, upon the achievement of certain defined milestones and will pay royalties to SGI and its licensors, as applicable, on a percentage of net sales, as defined. In the event that SGI provides materials or services to PSMA LLC under the SGI agreement, SGI will receive supply and/or labor cost payments from PSMA LLC at agreed-upon rates. PSMA LLC’s monoclonal antibody project is currently in the pre-clinical phase of research and development. All costs incurred by PSMA LLC under the SGI agreement during the research and development phase of the project will be expensed in the period incurred. The SGI agreement terminates at the latest of (i) the tenth anniversary of the first commercial sale of each licensed product in each country or (ii) the latest date of expiration of patents underlying the licensed products. PSMA LLC may terminate the SGI agreement upon advance written notice to SGI. SGI may terminate the agreement if PSMA LLC fails to cure a breach of an SGI in-license within a specified time period after written notice. In addition, either party may terminate the SGI agreement after written notice upon an uncured breach or in the event of bankruptcy of the other party. As of December 31, 2007, PSMA LLC has paid to SGI approximately $3.0 million under this agreement, including $0.5 million in milestone payments. ADARC. We have a letter agreement with The Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center pursuant to which we have the exclusive right to pursue the commercial development, directly or with a partner, of products related to HIV based on patents jointly owned by ADARC and us. 12 Table of Contents Rights and Obligations. We have the right generally to defend and enforce patents licensed by us, either in the first instance or if the licensor chooses not to do so. We bear the cost of doing so with respect to our license agreement with the University of Chicago for methylnaltrexone. Under the Collaboration Agreement, Wyeth has the right, at its expense, to defend and enforce the RELISTOR patents licensed to Wyeth by us. With most of our other license agreements, the licensor bears the cost of engaging in all of these activities, although we may share in those costs under certain circumstances. Historically, our costs of defending patent rights, both our own and those we license, have not been material. The licenses to which we are a party impose various milestone, commercialization, sublicensing, royalty and other payment, insurance, indemnification and other obligations on us and are subject to certain reservations of rights. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in the termination of the applicable agreement, which would likely cause us to terminate the related development program and cause a complete loss of our investment in that program. Patents and Proprietary Technology Our policy is to protect our proprietary technology, and we consider the protection of our rights to be important to our business. In addition to seeking U.S. patent protection for many of our inventions, we generally file patent applications in Canada, Japan, European countries that are party to the European Patent Convention and additional foreign countries on a selective basis in order to protect the inventions that we consider to be important to the development of our foreign business. Generally, patents issued in the U.S. are effective: · if the patent application was filed prior to June 8, 1995, for the longer of 17 years from the date of issue or 20 years from the earliest asserted filing date; or · if the application was filed on or after June 8, 1995, for 20 years from the earliest asserted filing date. In addition, in certain instances, the patent term can be extended up to a maximum of five years to recapture a portion of the term during which the FDA regulatory review was being conducted. The duration of foreign patents varies in accordance with the provisions of applicable local law, although most countries provide for patent terms of 20 years from the earliest asserted filing date and allow patent extensions similar to those permitted in the U.S. We also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain a competitive position in our product areas. We generally require our employees, consultants and corporate partners who have access to our proprietary information to sign confidentiality agreements. Our patent portfolio relating to our proprietary technologies in the gastroenterology, virology and cancer areas is currently comprised, on a worldwide basis, of 171 patents that have been issued and 281 pending patent applications, which we either own directly or of which we are the exclusive licensee. Our issued patents expire on dates ranging from 2009 through 2025. Patent term extensions and pending patent applications may extend the period of patent protection afforded our products in development. We are aware of intellectual property rights held by third parties that relate to products or technologies we are developing. For example, we are aware of other groups investigating methylnaltrexone and other peripheral opioid antagonists, PSMA or related compounds, CCR5 monoclonal antibodies and HCV therapeutics and of patents held, and patent applications filed, by these groups in those areas. While the validity of issued patents, patentability of pending patent applications and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if asserted against us, any related patent rights could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products. The research, development and commercialization of a biopharmaceutical often involve alternative development and optimization routes, which are presented at various stages in the development process. The preferred routes cannot be predicted at the outset of a research and development program because they will depend upon subsequent discoveries and test results. There are numerous third-party patents in our field, and it is possible that to pursue the preferred development route of one or more of our product candidates we will need to obtain a license to a patent, which would decrease the ultimate profitability of the applicable product. If we cannot negotiate a license, we might have to pursue a less desirable development route or terminate the program altogether. 13 Table of Contents Government Regulation Progenics and our product candidates are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and by comparable authorities in other countries. These national agencies and other federal, state and local entities regulate, among other things, the pre-clinical and clinical testing, safety, effectiveness, approval, manufacture, labeling, marketing, export, storage, recordkeeping, advertising and promotion of our products. None of our product candidates has received marketing or other approval from the FDA or any other similar regulatory authority. FDA Regulation. FDA approval of our products, including a review of the manufacturing processes and facilities used to produce such products, will be required before they may be marketed in the U.S. The process of obtaining approvals from the FDA can be costly, time consuming and subject to unanticipated delays. We cannot assure you that approvals of our proposed products, processes, or facilities will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. If we experience delays in obtaining, or do not obtain, approvals for our products, commercialization of our products would be slowed or stopped. Even if we obtain regulatory approval, the approval may include significant limitations on indicated uses for which the product could be marketed or other significant marketing restrictions. The process required by the FDA before our product candidates may be approved for marketing in the U.S. generally involves: · pre-clinical laboratory and animal tests; · submission to the FDA and effectiveness of an investigational new drug application, or IND, before clinical trials may begin; · adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the product for its intended indication; · submission to the FDA of a marketing application; and · FDA review of the marketing application in order to determine, among other things, whether the product is safe and effective for its intended uses. Pre-clinical tests include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry and animal studies to gain preliminary information about a product’s pharmacology and toxicology and to identify safety problems that would preclude testing in humans. Products must generally be manufactured according to current Good Manufacturing Practices, and pre-clinical safety tests must be conducted by laboratories that comply with FDA good laboratory practices regulations. The results of the pre-clinical tests are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND (Investigational New Drug) application, which must become effective before clinical trials may commence. The IND submission must include, among other things, a description of the sponsor’s investigational plan; protocols for each planned study; chemistry, manufacturing and control information; pharmacology and toxicology information and a summary of previous human experience with the investigational drug. Unless the FDA objects to, makes comments or raises questions concerning an IND, it will become effective 30 days following submission, and initial clinical studies may begin. Companies often obtain affirmative FDA approval, however, before beginning such studies. We cannot assure you that an IND submission by us will result in FDA authorization to commence clinical trials. Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational new drug to healthy volunteers or to individuals under the supervision of a qualified principal investigator. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with the FDA’s Good Clinical Practice requirements under protocols submitted to the FDA that detail, among other things, the objectives of the study; the parameters to be used to monitor safety; and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. Each clinical study must be conducted under the auspices of an Institutional Review Board, which considers, among other things, ethical factors, the safety of human subjects, the possible liability of the institution and the informed consent disclosure which must be made to participants in the trial. Clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, which may overlap. During phase 1, when the drug is initially administered to human subjects, the product is tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion. Phase 2 involves studies in a limited population to evaluate preliminarily the efficacy of the product for specific, targeted indications; determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage; and identify possible adverse effects and safety risks. 14 Table of Contents When a product candidate is found in phase 2 evaluation to have an effect and an acceptable safety profile, phase 3 trials are undertaken in order to further evaluate clinical efficacy and test for safety within an expanded population. The FDA may suspend clinical trials at any point in this process if it concludes that clinical subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. A New Drug Application, or NDA, is an application to the FDA to market a new drug. A Biologic License Application, or BLA, is an application to market a biological product. The new drug or biological product may not be marketed in the U.S. until the FDA has approved the NDA or issued a biologic license. The NDA must contain, among other things, information on chemistry, manufacturing and controls; non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology; human pharmacokinetics and bioavailability; and clinical data. The BLA must contain, among other things, data derived from nonclinical laboratory and clinical studies which demonstrate that the product meets prescribed standards of safety, purity and potency, and a full description of manufacturing methods. The results of the pre-clinical studies and clinical studies, the chemistry and manufacturing data, and the proposed labeling, among other things, are submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA or BLA. The FDA may refuse to accept the application for filing if certain administrative and content criteria are not satisfied, and even after accepting the application for review, the FDA may require additional testing or information before approval of the application. Our analysis of the results of our clinical studies is subject to review and interpretation by the FDA, which may differ from our analysis. We cannot assure you that our data or our interpretation of data will be accepted by the FDA. In any event, the FDA must deny an NDA or BLA if applicable regulatory requirements are not ultimately satisfied. In addition, we may encounter delays or rejections based upon changes in applicable law or FDA policy during the period of product development and FDA regulatory review. If regulatory approval of a product is granted, such approval may be made subject to various conditions, including post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety of the product, or may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which it may be marketed. Finally, product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur following initial marketing. Both before and after approval is obtained, a product, its manufacturer and the sponsor of the marketing application for the product are subject to comprehensive regulatory oversight. Violations of regulatory requirements at any stage, including the pre-clinical and clinical testing process, the approval process, or thereafter, may result in various adverse consequences, including FDA delay in approving or refusal to approve a product, withdrawal of an approved product from the market or the imposition of criminal penalties against the manufacturer or sponsor. Later discovery of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions on the product, manufacturer or sponsor, including withdrawal of the product from the market. New government requirements may be established that could delay or prevent regulatory approval of our products under development. Regulation Outside the U.S. Whether or not FDA approval has been obtained, approval of a pharmaceutical product by comparable government regulatory authorities in foreign countries must be obtained prior to marketing the product there. The approval procedure varies from country to country, and the time required may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements we must satisfy to obtain regulatory approval by governmental agencies in other countries prior to commercialization of our products there can be rigorous, costly and uncertain, and there can be no assurance that approvals will be granted on a timely basis or at all. We do not currently have any facilities or personnel outside of the U.S. In the European countries, Canada and Australia, regulatory requirements and approval processes are similar in principle to those in the United States. Additionally, depending on the type of drug for which approval is sought, there are currently two potential tracks for marketing approval in the EU countries: mutual recognition and the centralized procedure. These review mechanisms may ultimately lead to approval in all EU countries, but each method grants all participating countries some decision-making authority in product approval. The centralized procedure, which is mandatory for biotechnology derived products, results in a recommendation in all member states, while the EU mutual recognition process involves country-by-country approval. In other countries, regulatory requirements may require us to perform additional pre-clinical or clinical testing regardless of whether FDA approval has been obtained. If the particular product is manufactured in the U.S., we must also comply with FDA and other U.S. export provisions. In most countries outside the U.S., coverage, pricing and reimbursement approvals are also required. There can be no assurance that the resulting pricing of our products would be sufficient to generate an acceptable return to us. Other Regulation. In addition to regulations enforced by the FDA, we are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and various other present and potential future federal, state or local regulations. Our research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, viruses and various radioactive compounds. Although we believe that our safety procedures for storing, handling, using and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by applicable regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contaminations or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any legal and regulatory violations as well as damages that result. Any such liability could have a material adverse effect on Progenics. 15 Table of Contents Manufacturing We have transferred to Wyeth our prior agreement with Mallinckrodt for the supply of both bulk and finished-form RELISTOR. Wyeth is currently solely responsible for the supply of those materials for the balance of the clinical trial and commercial supply requirements under the Collaboration Agreement. We currently manufacture PRO 140 in our biologics pilot production facilities in Tarrytown, New York and have entered into an agreement with a third-party contract manufacturing organization (CMO) to produce additional quantities of PRO 140 for our ongoing clinical trials. We currently have two 150-liter bioreactors in operation to support our clinical programs. We have also acquired a 1,500 liter bioreactor, and we are considering the appropriate time and manner for installing and deploying this additional resource. We have supplemented our existing production facilities with capacity from the CMO to meet our needs for clinical trials for this product candidate. These facilities may, however, be insufficient for all of our late-stage clinical trials and would be insufficient for commercial-scale requirements. We may be required to further expand our manufacturing staff and facilities, obtain new facilities or contract with third parties or corporate collaborators to assist with production. In order to establish a full-scale commercial manufacturing facility for any of our product candidates, we would need to spend substantial additional funds, hire and train significant numbers of employees and comply with the extensive FDA regulations applicable to such a facility. Sales and Marketing We plan to market products for which we obtain regulatory approval through co-marketing, co-promotion, licensing and distribution arrangements with third-party collaborators. We may also consider contracting with a third-party professional pharmaceutical detailing and sales organization to perform the marketing function for our products. Under the terms of our Collaboration Agreement with Wyeth, Wyeth granted us an option to enter into a co-promotion agreement to co-promote any of the RELISTOR products developed under the Collaboration Agreement, subject to certain conditions. The extent of our co-promotion activities and the fee that we will be paid by Wyeth for these activities will be established if, as and when we exercise our option. Wyeth will record all sales of products worldwide (including those sold by us, if any, under a co-promotion agreement). Competition Competition in the biopharmaceutical industry is intense and characterized by ongoing research and development and technological change. We face competition from many companies and major universities and research institutions in the U.S. and abroad. We will face competition from companies marketing existing products or developing new products for diseases targeted by our technologies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources, experience in conducting pre-clinical studies and clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals for their products, operating experience, research and development and marketing capabilities and production capabilities than we do. Our products under development may not compete successfully with existing products or products under development by other companies, universities and other institutions. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining FDA marketing approval for products more rapidly than we do. Drug manufacturers that are first in the market with a therapeutic for a specific indication generally obtain and maintain a significant competitive advantage over later entrants. Accordingly, we believe that the speed with which we develop products, complete the clinical trials and approval processes and ultimately supply commercial quantities of the products to the market will be an important competitive factor. There are currently no FDA-approved products for reversing the debilitating side effects of opioid pain therapy (and specifically, opioid-induced constipation) or for the treatment of post-operative ileus, to which RELISTOR is directed. We are, however, aware of a product candidate that targets these therapeutic indications. This product, Entereg™ (alvimopan), is under development by Adolor Corporation, in collaboration with an affiliate of GlaxoSmithKline plc. Entereg is in advanced clinical development and Adolor has received an approvable letter from the FDA for Entereg regarding the treatment of post-operative ileus. Five classes of products made by our competitors have been approved for marketing by the FDA for the treatment of HIV infection and AIDS: nucleoside and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, protease inhibitors, entry inhibitors and integrase inhibitors. These drugs have shown efficacy in reducing the concentration of HIV in the blood and prolonging asymptomatic periods in HIV-positive individuals, especially when administered in combination. We are aware of several competitors that are marketing or developing small-molecule viral-entry-inhibition-based treatments directed against CCR5 for HIV infection, including Pfizer Inc.’s SELZENTRY™, but unaware of any antibody-based treatments at our stage of clinical development. 16 Table of Contents Radiation and surgery are two principal traditional forms of treatment for prostate cancer, to which our PSMA-based development efforts are directed. If the disease spreads, however, the traditional forms of treatment can be ineffective. We are aware of several competitors who are developing alternative treatments for prostate cancer, including in vivo and ex vivo therapies, some of which are directed against PSMA. A significant amount of research in the biopharmaceutical field is also being carried out at academic and government institutions. An element of our research and development strategy is to in-license technology and product candidates from academic and government institutions. These institutions are becoming increasingly sensitive to the commercial value of their findings and are becoming more aggressive in pursuing patent protection and negotiating licensing arrangements to collect royalties for use of technology that they have developed. These institutions may also market competitive commercial products on their own or in collaboration with competitors and will compete with us in recruiting highly qualified scientific personnel. Any resulting increase in the cost or decrease in the availability of technology or product candidates from these institutions may adversely affect our business strategy. Competition with respect to our technologies and product candidates is and will be based on, among other things: (i) efficacy and safety of our products; (ii) timing and scope of regulatory approval; (iii) product reliability and availability; (iv) sales, marketing and manufacturing capabilities; (v) capabilities of our collaborators; (vi) reimbursement coverage from insurance companies and others; (vii) degree of clinical benefits of our product candidates relative to their costs; (viii) method of administering a product; (ix) price; and (x) patent protection. Our competitive position will also depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, obtain patent protection or otherwise develop proprietary products or processes, and secure sufficient capital resources for the typically substantial period between technological conception and commercial sales. Competitive disadvantages in any of these factors could materially harm our business and financial condition. Product Liability The testing, manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates and products involves an inherent risk of product liability attributable to unwanted and potentially serious health effects. To the extent we elect to test, manufacture or market product candidates and products independently, we will bear the risk of product liability directly. We have obtained product liability insurance coverage in the amount of $10.0 million per occurrence, subject to a deductible and a $10.0 million aggregate limitation. In addition, where the local statutory requirements exceed the limits of our existing insurance or local policies of insurance are required, we maintain additional clinical trial liability insurance to meet these requirements. This insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations. We may not be able to continue to maintain insurance at a reasonable cost, or in adequate amounts. Human Resources At December 31, 2007, we had 245 full-time employees, 41 of whom hold Ph.D. degrees, six of whom hold M.D. degrees and three of whom, including Dr. Paul J. Maddon, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Science Officer, hold both Ph.D. and M.D. degrees. At such date, 200 employees were engaged in research and development, medical, regulatory affairs and manufacturing activities and 45 were engaged in finance, legal, administration and business development. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. None of our employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. 17 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and operations entail a variety of serious risks and uncertainties, including those described below. Our product development programs are inherently risky. We are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of product candidates based on new technologies. RELISTOR, which is designed to reverse certain side effects induced by opioids and to manage postoperative ileus and is being developed through a collaboration with Wyeth, is based on a novel method of action that has not yet been deemed safe or effective by any regulatory authorities. No drug with RELISTOR’s method of action has ever received marketing approval. Additionally, our principal HIV product candidate, the monoclonal antibody PRO 140, is designed to block viral entry. To our knowledge, there are two approved drugs designed to treat HIV infection by blocking viral entry (Trimeris’ FUZEON™ and Pfizer’s SELZENTRY™) that have been approved for marketing in the U.S., but neither are monoclonal antibodies. Our other research and development programs, including those related to PSMA, involve novel approaches to human therapeutics. Consequently, there is little precedent for the successful commercialization of products based on our technologies. There are a number of technological challenges that we must overcome to complete most of our development efforts. We may not be able to develop successfully any of our products. We have granted to Wyeth the exclusive rights to develop and commercialize RELISTOR, our lead product candidate, and our resulting dependence upon Wyeth exposes us to significant risks. In December 2005, we entered into a license and co-development agreement with Wyeth. Under this agreement, we granted to Wyeth the exclusive worldwide right to develop and commercialize RELISTOR, our lead product candidate. As a result, we are dependent upon Wyeth to perform and fund development, including clinical testing, to make certain regulatory filings and to manufacture and market products containing RELISTOR. Our collaboration with Wyeth may not be scientifically, clinically or commercially successful. Any revenues from the sale of RELISTOR, if approved for marketing by the FDA, will depend almost entirely upon the efforts of Wyeth. Wyeth has significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources it applies to sales of the RELISTOR products and may not be effective in marketing such products. In addition, Wyeth is a large, diversified pharmaceutical company with global operations and its own corporate objectives, which may not be consistent with our best interests. For example, Wyeth may change its strategic focus or pursue alternative technologies in a manner that results in reduced revenues to us. We will receive milestone and contingent payments from Wyeth only if RELISTOR achieves specified clinical, regulatory and commercialization milestones, and we will receive royalty payments from Wyeth only if RELISTOR receives regulatory approval and is commercialized by Wyeth. Many of these milestone events will depend upon the efforts of Wyeth. As of December 31, 2007, we have received $14.0 million in milestone payments from Wyeth. We may not receive any further milestone, contingent or royalty payments from Wyeth. The Collaboration Agreement extends, unless terminated earlier, on a country-by-country and product-by-product basis, until the last-to-expire royalty period, as defined, for any product. Progenics may terminate the Collaboration Agreement at any time upon 90 days of written notice to Wyeth (30 days in the case of breach of a payment obligation) upon material breach that is not cured. Wyeth may, with or without cause, following the second anniversary of the first commercial sale, as defined, of the first commercial product in the U.S., terminate the Collaboration Agreement by providing Progenics with at least 360 days prior written notice of such termination. Wyeth may also terminate the agreement (i) upon 30 days written notice following one or more serious safety or efficacy issues that arise, as defined, and (ii) at any time, upon 90 days written notice of a material breach that is not cured by Progenics. Upon termination of the Collaboration Agreement, the ownership of the license we granted to Wyeth will depend on the party that initiates the termination and the reason for the termination. If our relationship with Wyeth were to terminate, we would have to either enter into a license and co-development agreement with another party or develop and commercialize RELISTOR ourselves. We may not be able to enter into such an agreement with another suitable company on acceptable terms or at all. To develop and commercialize RELISTOR on our own, we would have to develop a sales and marketing organization and a distribution infrastructure, neither of which we currently have. Developing these resources would be an expensive and lengthy process and would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. A termination of our relationship with Wyeth could seriously compromise the development program for RELISTOR and possibly our other product candidates. For example, we could experience significant delays in the development of RELISTOR and would have to assume full funding and other responsibility for further development and eventual commercialization. Any of these outcomes would result in delays in our ability to distribute RELISTOR and would increase our expenses, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Our collaboration with Wyeth is multi-faceted and involves a complex sharing of control over decisions, responsibilities, costs and benefits. There are numerous potential sources of disagreement between us and Wyeth, including with respect to product development, marketing strategies, manufacturing and supply issues and rights relating to intellectual property. Wyeth has significantly greater financial and managerial resources than we do, which it could draw upon in the event of a dispute. A disagreement between Wyeth and us could lead to lengthy and expensive litigation or other dispute-resolution proceedings as well as to extensive financial and operational consequences to us, and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If testing does not yield successful results, our products will not be approved. We will need to obtain regulatory approval before our product candidates can be marketed. To obtain marketing approval from regulatory authorities, we or our collaborators must demonstrate a product’s safety and efficacy through extensive pre-clinical and clinical testing. Numerous adverse events may arise during, or as a result of, the testing process, including the following: · the results of pre-clinical studies may be inconclusive, or they may not be indicative of results that will be obtained in human clinical trials; · potential products may not have the desired efficacy or may have undesirable side effects or other characteristics that preclude marketing approval or limit their commercial use if approved; · after reviewing test results, we or our collaborators may abandon projects which we previously believed to be promising; and · we, our collaborators or regulators may suspend or terminate clinical trials if we or they believe that the participating subjects are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. Clinical testing is very expensive and can take many years. Results attained in early human clinical trials may not be indicative of results that are obtained in later clinical trials. In addition, many of our investigational or experimental drugs, such as PRO 140 and the PSMA product candidates, are at an early stage of development. The successful commercialization of early stage product candidates will require significant further research, development, testing and approvals by regulators and additional investment. Our products in the research or pre-clinical development stage may not yield results that would permit or justify clinical testing. Our failure to demonstrate adequately the safety and efficacy of a product under development would delay or prevent marketing approval of the product, which could adversely affect our operating results and credibility. A setback in our clinical development programs could adversely affect us. We and Wyeth are conducting clinical trials of RELISTOR. If the results of any of these ongoing trials or of other future trials of RELISTOR are not satisfactory, or if we encounter problems enrolling subjects, or if clinical trial supply issues or other difficulties arise, our entire RELISTOR development program could be adversely affected, resulting in delays in commencing or completing clinical trials or in making our regulatory filing for marketing approval. The need to conduct additional clinical trials or significant revisions to our clinical development plan would lead to delays in filing for the regulatory approvals necessary to market RELISTOR. If the clinical trials indicate a serious problem with the safety or efficacy of a RELISTOR product, then Wyeth has the right under our license and co-development agreement to terminate the agreement or to stop the development or commercialization of the affected products. Since RELISTOR is our most clinically advanced product, any setback of these types would have a material adverse effect on our stock price and business. We are conducting a clinical trial of PRO 140 and are planning trials of PSMA ADC and prostate cancer vaccine candidates. If the results of our future clinical studies of PRO 140 or the pre-clinical and clinical studies involving the PSMA vaccine and antibody candidates are not satisfactory, we would need to reconfigure our clinical trial programs to conduct additional trials or abandon the program involved. We have a history of operating losses, and we may never be profitable. We have incurred substantial losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $254.0 million. We have derived no significant revenues from product sales or royalties. We may not achieve significant product sales or royalty revenue for a number of years, if ever. We expect to incur additional operating losses in the future, which could increase significantly as we expand our clinical trial programs and other product development efforts. 19 Table of Contents Our ability to achieve and sustain profitability is dependent in part on obtaining regulatory approval to market our products and then commercializing, either alone or with others, our products. We may not be able to develop and commercialize products. Our operations may not be profitable even if any of our products under development are commercialized. We are likely to need additional financing, but our access to capital funding is uncertain. As of December 31, 2007, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, including non-current portion, totaling $170.4 million. This includes proceeds of $57.1 million, net of underwriter commissions, discounts and other offering expenses, raised during the third quarter of 2007 in a follow-on public offering of 2.6 million shares of common stock. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we had a net loss of $43.7 million and cash used in operating activities was $39.1 million. Our accumulated deficit is expected to increase in the future. Under our agreement with Wyeth, Wyeth is responsible for all future development and commercialization costs relating to RELISTOR starting January 1, 2006. As a result, although our spending on RELISTOR has been significant during 2006 and 2007 and is expected to continue at a similar level in the future, our net expenses for RELISTOR have been and will continue to be reimbursed by Wyeth. With regard to our other product candidates, we expect that we will continue to incur significant expenditures for their development, and we do not have committed external sources of funding for most of these projects. These expenditures will be funded from our cash on hand, or we may seek additional external funding for these expenditures, most likely through collaborative agreements, or other license or sale transactions, with one or more pharmaceutical companies, through the issuance and sale of securities or through additional government grants or contracts. We cannot predict with any certainty when we will need additional funds or how much we will need or if additional funds will be available to us. Our need for future funding will depend on numerous factors, many of which are outside our control. Our access to capital funding is always uncertain. Despite previous experience, we may not be able at the necessary time to obtain additional funding on acceptable terms, or at all. Our inability to raise additional capital on terms reasonably acceptable to us would seriously jeopardize the future success of our business. If we raise funds by issuing and selling securities, it may be on terms that are not favorable to our existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds by selling equity securities, our current stockholders will be diluted, and new investors could have rights superior to our existing stockholders. If we raise funds by selling debt securities, we could be subject to restrictive covenants and significant repayment obligations. We believe that existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations and funds potentially available to us by issuing and selling securities are sufficient to finance our current operations and working capital requirements on both a short-term and long-term basis. We cannot, however, predict the amount or timing of our need for additional funds under various circumstances, which could include new product development projects, other opportunities or other factors that may require us to raise additional funds in the future. Our marketable securities, which include corporate debt securities, securities of government-sponsored entities and auction rate securities (“ARS”), are classified as available for sale. The ARS that we purchase consist of municipal bonds with maturities greater than five years and, in accordance with our investment guidelines, have credit ratings of at least Aa3/AA-, and do not include mortgage-backed instruments. We have a history of holding all marketable securities, other than ARS, to maturity. As of December 31, 2007, we had not experienced failed auctions of our ARS due to lack of investor interest. The auction process for ARS historically provided a liquid market for these securities. In the second half of 2007, however, this process began to deteriorate. During the first quarter of 2008, we began to reduce the principal amount of ARS in our portfolio from $38.8 million at 2007 year-end. While our portfolio was not affected by the auction process deterioration in 2007, some of the ARS we hold experienced auction failures during the first quarter of 2008. As a result, when we attempted to liquidate them through auction, we were unable to do so as to approximately $10.1 million principal amount, which we continue to hold. In the event of an auction failure, the interest rate on the security is reset according to the contractual terms in the underlying indenture. As of March 14, 2008, we have received all scheduled interest payments associated with these securities. The funds associated with failed auctions will not be accessible until a successful auction occurs, the issuer calls or restructures the underlying security, the underlying security matures and is paid or a buyer outside the auction process emerges. We believe that the failed auctions experienced to date are not a result of the deterioration of the underlying credit quality of these securities, although valuation of them is subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict, such as changes to credit ratings of the securities and/or the underlying assets supporting them, default rates applicable to the underlying assets, underlying collateral value, discount rates, counterparty risk and ongoing strength and quality of market credit and liquidity. We believe that any unrealized gain or loss associated with these securities will be temporary and will be recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in our financial statements. 20 Table of Contents The credit and capital markets have continued to deteriorate in 2008. Continuation or acceleration of the current instability in these markets and/or deterioration in the ratings of our investments may affect our ability to liquidate these securities, and therefore may affect our financial condition, cash flows and earnings. We believe that based on our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances of $170.4 million at December 31, 2007, the current lack of liquidity in the credit and capital markets will not have a material impact on our liquidity, cash flows, financial flexibility or ability to fund our obligations. We continue to monitor the market for auction rate securities and consider its impact (if any) on the fair market value of our investments. If the current market conditions continue, in which some auctions for ARS fail, or the anticipated recovery in market values does not occur, we may be required to record unrealized losses or impairment charges in 2008. As auctions have closed successfully, we have converted our investments in ARS to money market funds. We believe we will have the ability to hold any auction rate securities for which auctions fail until the market recovers. We do not anticipate having to sell these securities in order to operate our business. Our clinical trials could take longer than we expect. Although for planning purposes we forecast the commencement and completion of clinical trials, and have included many of those forecasts in reports filed with the SEC and in other public disclosures, the actual timing of these events can vary dramatically. For example, we have experienced delays in our RELISTOR clinical development program in the past as a result of slower than anticipated enrollment. These delays may recur. Delays can be caused by, among other things: · deaths or other adverse medical events involving subjects in our clinical trials; · regulatory or patent issues; · interim or final results of ongoing clinical trials; · failure to enroll clinical sites as expected; · competition for enrollment from clinical trials conducted by others in similar indications; · scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions; and · manufacturing problems. In addition, we may need to delay or suspend our clinical trials if we are unable to obtain additional funding when needed. Clinical trials involving our product candidates may not commence or be completed as forecasted. We have limited experience in conducting clinical trials, and we rely on others to conduct, supervise or monitor some or all aspects of some of our clinical trials. In addition, certain clinical trials for our product candidates may be conducted by government-sponsored agencies, and consequently will be dependent on governmental participation and funding. Under our agreement with Wyeth relating to RELISTOR, Wyeth has the responsibility to conduct some of the clinical trials for that product candidate, including all trials outside of the United States. We will have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted them entirely on our own. As a result of these and other factors, our clinical trials may not commence or be completed as we expect or may not be conducted successfully, in which event investors’ confidence in our ability to develop products may be impaired and our stock price may decline. We are subject to extensive regulation, which can be costly and time consuming and can subject us to unanticipated fines and delays. We and our products are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA in the U.S. and by comparable authorities in other countries. These national agencies and other federal, state and local entities regulate, among other things, the pre-clinical and clinical testing, safety, approval, manufacture, labeling, marketing, export, storage, record keeping, advertising and promotion of pharmaceutical products. If we violate regulatory requirements at any stage, whether before or after marketing approval is obtained, we may be subject to forced removal of a product from the market, product seizure, civil and criminal penalties and other adverse consequences. 21 Table of Contents Our product candidates do not yet have, and may never obtain, the regulatory approvals needed for marketing. None of our product candidates has been approved by applicable regulatory authorities for marketing. The process of obtaining FDA and foreign regulatory approvals often takes many years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. We have had only limited experience in filing and pursuing applications and other submissions necessary to gain marketing approvals. Our products under development may never obtain the marketing approval from the FDA or any other regulatory authority necessary for commercialization. Even if our products receive regulatory approval: · they might not obtain labeling claims necessary to make the product commercially viable (in general, labeling claims define the medical conditions for which a drug product may be marketed, and are therefore very important to the commercial success of a product); · approval may be limited to uses of the product for treatment or prevention of diseases or conditions that are relatively less financially advantageous to us than approval of greater or different scope; · we or our collaborators might be required to undertake post-marketing trials to verify the product’s efficacy or safety; · we, our collaborators or others might identify side effects after the product is on the market, or we or our collaborators might experience manufacturing problems, either of which could result in subsequent withdrawal of marketing approval, reformulation of the product, additional pre-clinical testing or clinical trials, changes in labeling of the product or the need for additional marketing applications; and · we and our collaborators will be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continuous regulatory review. If our products fail to receive marketing approval or lose previously received approvals, our financial results would be adversely affected. Even if our products obtain marketing approval, they might not be accepted in the marketplace. The commercial success of our products will depend upon their acceptance by the medical community and third party payors as clinically useful, cost effective and safe. If health care providers believe that patients can be managed adequately with alternative, currently available therapies, they may not prescribe our products, especially if the alternative therapies are viewed as more effective, as having a better safety or tolerability profile, as being more convenient to the patient or health care providers or as being less expensive. For pharmaceuticals administered in an institutional setting, the ability of the institution to be adequately reimbursed could also play a significant role in demand for our products. Even if our products obtain marketing approval, they may not achieve market acceptance. If any of our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will likely lose our entire investment in that product. Marketplace acceptance will depend in part on competition in our industry, which is intense. The extent to which any of our products achieves market acceptance will depend on competitive factors. Competition in our industry is intense, and it is accentuated by the rapid pace of technological development. There are products currently in the market that will compete with the products that we are developing, including AIDS drugs and chemotherapy drugs for treating cancer. As described below, Adolor Corporation is developing a drug that would compete with RELISTOR. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and experience and greater manufacturing, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we do. These competitors may develop products that are superior to those we are developing and render our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. If our product candidates receive marketing approval but cannot compete effectively in the marketplace, our operating results and financial position would suffer. One or more competitors developing an opioid antagonist may reach the market ahead of us and adversely affect the market potential for RELISTOR. We are aware that Adolor Corporation, in collaboration with Glaxo Group Limited, or Glaxo, a subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc, is developing Entereg™ (alvimopan), an opioid antagonist, for postoperative ileus, which has completed phase 3 clinical trials, and for opioid-induced bowel dysfunction, which has been the subject of phase 3 clinical trials. Entereg is further along in the clinical development process than RELISTOR, and Adolor Corporation has received an approvable letter from the FDA for Entereg regarding the treatment of post-operative ileus. If Entereg reaches the market before RELISTOR, it could achieve a significant competitive advantage relative to our product. In any event, the considerable marketing and sales capabilities of Glaxo may impair our ability to penetrate the market. 22 Table of Contents Under the terms of our collaboration with Wyeth with respect to RELISTOR, Wyeth is developing the oral formulation of RELISTOR worldwide. We are leading the U.S. development of the subcutaneous and intravenous formulations of RELISTOR, while Wyeth is leading development of these parenteral products outside the U.S. Decisions regarding the timelines for development of the three RELISTOR formulations are being be made by a Joint Development Committee, and endorsed by the Joint Steering Committee, each committee formed under the terms of the license and co-development agreement, consisting of members from both Wyeth and Progenics. If we are unable to negotiate collaborative agreements, our cash burn rate could increase and our rate of product development could decrease. Our business strategy includes as an element entering into collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to develop and commercialize our products and technologies. We entered into such a collaboration with Wyeth, but we may not be successful in negotiating additional collaborative arrangements. If we do not enter into new collaborative arrangements, we would have to devote more of our resources to clinical product development and product-launch activities, and our cash burn rate would increase or we would need to take steps to reduce our rate of product development. If we do not remedy our failure to achieve milestones or satisfy conditions regarding some of our product candidates, we may not maintain our rights under our licenses relating to these product candidates. We are required to make substantial cash payments, achieve specified milestones and satisfy other conditions, including filing for and obtaining marketing approvals and introducing products, to maintain rights under our intellectual property licenses. Due to the nature of these agreements and the uncertainties of research and development, we may not be able to achieve milestones or satisfy conditions to which we have contractually committed, and as a result may be unable to maintain our rights under these licenses. If we do not comply with our obligations under our license agreements, the licensors may terminate them. Termination of any of our licenses could result in our losing our rights to, and therefore being unable to commercialize, any related product. We have limited manufacturing capabilities, which could adversely affect our ability to commercialize products. We have limited manufacturing capabilities, which may result in increased costs of production or delay product development or commercialization. In order to commercialize our product candidates successfully, we or our collaborators must be able to manufacture products in commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, at acceptable costs and in a timely manner. The manufacture of our product candidates can be complex, difficult to accomplish even in small quantities, difficult to scale-up for large-scale production and subject to delays, inefficiencies and low yields of quality products. The cost of manufacturing some of our products may make them prohibitively expensive. If adequate supplies of any of our product candidates or related materials are not available to us on a timely basis or at all, our clinical trials could be seriously delayed, since these materials are time consuming to manufacture and cannot be readily obtained from third-party sources. We operate pilot-scale manufacturing facilities for the production of vaccines and recombinant proteins. We believe that, for these types of product candidates, these facilities will be sufficient to meet our initial needs for clinical trials. These facilities may, however, be insufficient for late-stage clinical trials for these types of product candidates, and would be insufficient for commercial-scale manufacturing requirements. We may be required to expand further our manufacturing staff and facilities, obtain new facilities or contract with corporate collaborators or other third parties to assist with production. In the event that we decide to establish a commercial-scale manufacturing facility, we will require substantial additional funds and will be required to hire and train significant numbers of employees and comply with applicable regulations, which are extensive. We may not be able to build a manufacturing facility that both meets regulatory requirements and is sufficient for our clinical trials or commercial scale manufacturing. We have entered into arrangements with third parties for the manufacture of some of our products. Our third-party sourcing strategy may not result in a cost-effective means for manufacturing products. In employing third-party manufacturers, we will not control many aspects of the manufacturing process, including compliance by these third parties with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices and other regulatory requirements. We may not be able to obtain adequate supplies from third-party manufacturers in a timely fashion for development or commercialization purposes, and commercial quantities of products may not be available from contract manufacturers at acceptable costs. 23 Table of Contents We are dependent on our patents and other intellectual property rights. The validity, enforceability and commercial value of these rights are highly uncertain. Our success is dependent in part upon obtaining, maintaining and enforcing patent and other intellectual property rights. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical firms is highly uncertain and involves many complex legal and technical issues. There is no clear policy involving the breadth of claims allowed, or the degree of protection afforded, under patents in this area. Accordingly, the patent applications owned by or licensed to us may not result in patents being issued. We are aware of other groups that have patent applications or patents containing claims similar to or overlapping those in our patents and patent applications. We do not expect to know for several years the relative strength or scope of our patent position as compared to these other groups. Patents that we own or license may not enable us to preclude competitors from commercializing drugs, and consequently may not provide us with any meaningful competitive advantage. We own or have licenses to several issued patents. The issuance of a patent, however, is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability. The validity or enforceability of a patent after its issuance by the patent office can be challenged in litigation. Our patents may be successfully challenged. We may incur substantial costs in litigation to uphold the validity of patents or to prevent infringement. If the outcome of litigation is adverse to us, third parties may be able to use our patented invention without payment to us. Third parties may also avoid our patents through design innovation. Most of our product candidates, including RELISTOR, PRO 140 and our PSMA and HCV program products, incorporate to some degree intellectual property licensed from third parties. We can lose the right to patents and other intellectual property licensed to us if the related license agreement is terminated due to a breach by us or otherwise. Our ability, and that of our collaboration partners, to commercialize products incorporating licensed intellectual property would be impaired if the related license agreements were terminated. Generally, we have the right to defend and enforce patents licensed by us, either in the first instance or if the licensor chooses not to do so. In addition, our license agreement with the University of Chicago regarding methylnaltrexone gives us the right to prosecute and maintain the licensed patents. We bear the cost of engaging in some or all of these activities with respect to our license agreements with the University of Chicago for methylnaltrexone. Under our Collaboration Agreement, Wyeth has the right, at its expense, to defend and enforce the RELISTOR patents licensed to Wyeth by us. With most of our other license agreements, the licensor bears the cost of engaging in all of these activities, although we may share in those costs under specified circumstances. Historically, our costs of defending patent rights, both our own and those we license, have not been material. We also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. Third parties may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our technology or disclose our technology, and we may be unable to effectively protect our rights in unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. We require each of our employees, consultants and advisors to execute a confidentiality agreement at the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. These agreements may, however, not provide effective protection in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information. If we infringe third-party patent or other intellectual property rights, we may need to alter or terminate a product development program. There may be patent or other intellectual property rights belonging to others that require us to alter our products, pay licensing fees or cease certain activities. If our products infringe patent or other intellectual property rights of others, the owners of those rights could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of the affected products. If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. We may not prevail in any action brought against us, and any license required under any rights that we infringe may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We are aware of intellectual property rights held by third parties that relate to products or technologies we are developing. For example, we are aware of other groups investigating methylnaltrexone and other peripheral opioid antagonists, PSMA or related compounds and CCR5 monoclonal antibodies and of patents held, and patent applications filed, by these groups in those areas. While the validity of these issued patents, patentability of these pending patent applications and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if asserted against us, any related patent or other intellectual property rights could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products. The research, development and commercialization of a biopharmaceutical often involve alternative development and optimization routes, which are presented at various stages in the development process. The preferred routes cannot be predicted at the outset of a research and development program because they will depend on subsequent discoveries and test results. There are numerous third-party patents in our field, and we may need to obtain a license to a patent in order to pursue the preferred development route of one or more of our products. The need to obtain a license would decrease the ultimate profitability of the applicable product. If we cannot negotiate a license, we might have to pursue a less desirable development route or terminate the program altogether. 24 Table of Contents We are dependent upon third parties for a variety of functions. These arrangements may not provide us with the benefits we expect. We rely in part on third parties to perform a variety of functions. We are party to numerous agreements which place substantial responsibility on clinical research organizations, consultants and other service providers for the development of our products. We also rely on medical and academic institutions to perform aspects of our clinical trials of product candidates. In addition, an element of our research and development strategy is to in-license technology and product candidates from academic and government institutions in order to minimize investments in early research. We entered into an agreement under which we depend on Wyeth for the commercialization and development of RELISTOR, our lead product candidate. We may not be able to maintain any of these relationships or establish new ones on beneficial terms. We may not be able to enter new arrangements without undue delays or expenditures, and these arrangements may not allow us to compete successfully. We lack sales and marketing infrastructure and related staff, which will require significant investment to establish and in the meantime may make us dependent on third parties for their expertise in this area. We have no established sales, marketing or distribution infrastructure. If we receive marketing approval, significant investment, time and managerial resources will be required to build the commercial infrastructure required to market, sell and support a pharmaceutical product. Should we choose to commercialize any product directly, we may not be successful in developing an effective commercial infrastructure or in achieving sufficient market acceptance. Alternatively, we may choose to market and sell our products through distribution, co-marketing, co-promotion or licensing arrangements with third parties. We may also consider contracting with a third party professional pharmaceutical detailing and sales organization to perform the marketing function for our products. Under our license and co-development agreement with Wyeth, Wyeth is responsible for commercializing RELISTOR. To the extent that we enter into distribution, co-marketing, co-promotion, detailing or licensing arrangements for the marketing and sale of our other products, any revenues we receive will depend primarily on the efforts of third parties. We will not control the amount and timing of marketing resources these third parties devote to our products. If we lose key management and scientific personnel on whom we depend, our business could suffer. We are dependent upon our key management and scientific personnel. In particular, the loss of Dr. Maddon could cause our management and operations to suffer. In late 2007, we concluded a renewal employment agreement with Dr. Maddon, with an effective date of July 1, 2007, for an initial term of one year, which is subject to automatic renewal provided both we and Dr. Maddon agree. Employment agreements do not assure the continued employment of an employee. We maintain key-man life insurance on Dr. Maddon in the amount of $2.5 million. Competition for qualified employees among companies in the biopharmaceutical industry is intense. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. In order to commercialize our products successfully, we may be required to expand substantially our personnel, particularly in the areas of manufacturing, clinical trials management, regulatory affairs, business development and marketing. We may not be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of the raw and bulk materials needed to make our products, our product development and commercialization could be slowed or stopped. In accordance with our collaboration agreement with Wyeth, we have transferred to Wyeth the responsibility for manufacturing RELISTOR for clinical and commercial use. We currently obtain supplies of critical raw materials used in production of other of our product candidates from single sources. We do not have long-term contracts with any of these other suppliers. Wyeth may not be able to fulfill its manufacturing obligations, either on its own or through third-party suppliers. Our existing arrangements with suppliers for our other product candidates may not result in the supply of sufficient quantities of our product candidates needed to accomplish our clinical development programs, and we may not have the right or capability to manufacture sufficient quantities of these products to meet our needs if our suppliers are unable or unwilling to do so. Any delay or disruption in the availability of raw materials would slow or stop product development and commercialization of the relevant product. 25 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our funding comes from federal government grants and research contracts. We cannot rely on these grants or contracts as a continuing source of funds. A substantial portion of our revenues to date has been derived from federal government grants and research contracts. During 2006 and 2007, we were awarded, in the aggregate, approximately $4.4 million in NIH grants. During 2005, we were also awarded a $3.0 million and a $9.7 million grant from the NIH to partially fund our hepatitis C virus and PRO 140 programs, respectively. In 2004 we were awarded, in the aggregate, approximately $9.2 million in NIH grants and research contracts in addition to previous years’ awards. We cannot rely on grants or additional contracts as a continuing source of funds. Funds available under these grants and contracts must be applied by us toward the research and development programs specified by the government rather than for all our programs generally. For example, the contract awarded to us by the NIH in September 2003, which provided for up to $28.6 million in funding over a five year period, must be used by us in furtherance of our efforts to develop an HIV vaccine. The government’s obligation to make payments under these grants and contracts is subject to appropriation by the U.S. Congress for funding in each year. It is possible that Congress or the government agencies that administer these government research programs will decide to scale back these programs or terminate them due to their own budgetary constraints. Additionally, these grants and research contracts are subject to adjustment based upon the results of periodic audits performed on behalf of the granting authority. Consequently, the government may not award grants or research contracts to us in the future, and any amounts that we derive from existing grants or contracts may be less than those received to date. We have recently been informed by the NIH that it has decided not to fund the 2003 contract beyond the $15.5 million approved through September 2008. To continue to develop the HIV vaccine after that time, therefore, we will need to provide funding on our own or obtain new governmental or other funding. If we choose not to provide our own or cannot secure governmental or other funding, we will discontinue this project. If health care reform measures are enacted, our operating results and our ability to commercialize products could be adversely affected. In recent years, there have been numerous proposals to change the health care system in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions. Some of these proposals have included measures that would limit or eliminate payments for medical procedures and treatments or subject the pricing of pharmaceuticals to government control. In some foreign countries, particularly countries of the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In addition, as a result of the trend towards managed health care in the U.S., as well as legislative proposals to reduce government insurance programs, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drug products. Consequently, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. If we or any of our collaborators succeed in bringing one or more of our products to market, third party payors may establish and maintain price levels insufficient for us to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Significant changes in the health care system in the U.S. or elsewhere, including changes resulting from adverse trends in third-party reimbursement programs, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our ability to raise capital and commercialize products. We are exposed to product liability claims, and in the future we may not be able to obtain insurance against these claims at a reasonable cost or at all. Our business exposes us to product liability risks, which are inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products. We may not be able to avoid product liability exposure. If a product liability claim is successfully brought against us, our financial position may be adversely affected. Product liability insurance for the biopharmaceutical industry is generally expensive, when available at all. We have obtained product liability insurance in the amount of $10.0 million per occurrence, subject to a deductible and a $10.0 million annual aggregate limitation. Where local statutory requirements exceed the limits of our existing insurance or where local policies of insurance are required, we maintain additional clinical trial liability insurance to meet these requirements. Our present insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover claims brought against us. Some of our license and other agreements require us to obtain product liability insurance. Adequate insurance coverage may not be available to us at a reasonable cost in the future. 26 Table of Contents We handle hazardous materials and must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. If we are involved in a hazardous waste spill or other accident, we could be liable for damages, penalties or other forms of censure. Our research and development work and manufacturing processes involve the use of hazardous, controlled and radioactive materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. Despite procedures that we implement for handling and disposing of these materials, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury. In the event of a hazardous waste spill or other accident, we could be liable for damages, penalties or other forms of censure. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future. Our stock price has a history of volatility. You should consider an investment in our stock as risky and invest only if you can withstand a significant loss. Our stock price has a history of significant volatility. Between January 1, 2005 and December 31, 2007, our stock price has ranged from $14.09 to $30.83 per share. In the first quarter of 2008, it has ranged to as low as approximately $5.00 per share. Historically, our stock price has fluctuated through an even greater range. At times, our stock price has been volatile even in the absence of significant news or developments relating to us. The stock prices of biotechnology companies and the stock market generally have been subject to dramatic price swings in recent years. Factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock include: · the results of clinical trials and pre-clinical studies involving our products or those of our competitors; · changes in the status of any of our drug development programs, including delays in clinical trials or program terminations; · developments regarding our efforts to achieve marketing approval for our products; · developments in our relationship with Wyeth regarding the development and commercialization of RELISTOR; · announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us, our collaborators or our competitors; · developments in our relationships with other collaborative partners; · developments in patent or other proprietary rights; · governmental regulation; · changes in reimbursement policies or health care legislation; · public concern as to the safety and efficacy of products developed by us, our collaborators or our competitors; · our ability to fund on-going operations; · fluctuations in our operating results; and · general market conditions. Our principal stockholders are able to exert significant influence over matters submitted to stockholders for approval. At December 31, 2007, our directors and executive officers and stockholders affiliated with Tudor Investment Corporation together beneficially own or control approximately one-fifth of our outstanding shares of common stock. At that date, our six largest stockholders, excluding our directors and executive officers and stockholders affiliated with Tudor, beneficially own or control in the aggregate approximately half of our outstanding shares. Our directors and executive officers and Tudor-related stockholders, should they choose to act together, could exert significant influence in determining the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval and otherwise control our business. This control could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us and, consequently, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Other significant but unrelated stockholders could also exert influence in such matters. 27 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions may make the removal of our Board of Directors or management more difficult and discourage hostile bids for control of our company that may be beneficial to our stockholders. Our Board of Directors is authorized, without further stockholder action, to issue from time to time shares of preferred stock in one or more designated series or classes. The issuance of preferred stock, as well as provisions in certain of our stock options that provide for acceleration of exercisability upon a change of control, and Section 203 and other provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law could: · make the takeover of Progenics or the removal of our Board of Directors or management more difficult; · discourage hostile bids for control of Progenics in which stockholders may receive a premium for their shares of common stock; and · otherwise dilute the rights of holders of our common stock and depress the market price of our common stock. If there are substantial sales of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline. Sales of substantial numbers of shares of common stock could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. We require substantial external funding to finance our research and development programs and may seek such funding through the issuance and sale of our common stock. We filed a shelf registration statement to permit the sale by us of up to 4.0 million shares of our common stock, pursuant to which we sold 2.6 million shares on September 25, 2007. We also filed registration statements with respect to sales of 286,000 shares of our common stock by certain stockholders, all of which have been sold. Additional sales of our common stock pursuant to our shelf registration statement could, even at then-current market prices, cause the market price of our stock to decline. In addition, some of our other stockholders are entitled to require us to register their shares of common stock for offer or sale to the public, and we have filed Form S-8 registration statements registering shares issuable pursuant to our equity compensation plans. Any sales by existing stockholders or holders of options may have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There were no unresolved SEC staff comments regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act as of December 31, 2007. Item 