Risk Factors—Disputes with Cytogen could delay or halt our PSMA programs.” Other Product Candidates and Research Programs GMK Vaccine GMK is a therapeutic vaccine that is designed to prevent recurrence of melanoma in patients who are at risk of relapse after surgery. We are currently conducting two phase 3 clinical trials of GMK. Melanoma is a cancer of the skin cells that produce the pigment melanin. In early stages, melanoma is limited to the skin, but in later stages it can spread to the lungs, liver, brain and other organs. The National Cancer Institute estimated that in 2000 there were 550,860 melanoma patients in the U.S. The American Cancer Society estimates that there were nearly 60,000 new cases of melanoma diagnosed in the U.S. during 2005. Melanoma accounts for 4% of skin cancer cases, but 79% of skin cancer deaths. Melanoma has one of the fastest growing incidence rates of any cancer in the U.S. GMK is being developed as immunotherapy for patients with Stage II or Stage III melanoma. The American Cancer Society estimates that the five-year relative survival rate for these melanoma patients ranges from 44% to 85%, depending on the stage of the disease and other physiological factors. GMK entered a pivotal phase 3 clinical trial in the U.S. in August 1996. GMK was administered in this study by 12 subcutaneous injections over a two-year period on an out-patient basis. This clinical trial compares GMK with high-dose alpha-interferon in Stage IIb (advanced Stage II) and Stage III melanoma patients who have undergone surgery but are at high risk for recurrence. This randomized trial has been conducted nationally by the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group, or ECOG, in conjunction with other major cancer centers, cooperative cancer research groups, hospitals and clinics. The primary endpoint of this trial is a comparison of the recurrence of melanoma in patients receiving GMK versus patients receiving high-dose alpha-interferon, the conventional treatment for high-risk melanoma patients. Additionally, the study is designed to compare quality of life and overall survival of patients in both groups. In May 2000, as a result of an unplanned early analysis of a subset of the 880 patients enrolled in the trial, ECOG recommended to clinical investigators participating in the trial that they discontinue administering GMK. No safety issues were identified. ECOG’s decision was based on its early analysis of data from the subset group which, according to ECOG, showed that the relapse-free and overall survival rates for patients receiving the GMK vaccine were lower than for patients receiving high-dose alpha-interferon. As a result of the actions of ECOG, the trial did not complete patient dosing as contemplated by the initial trial protocol. Despite ECOG’s actions, we extended our clinical trial to allow those patients who so elected, with the advice of their treating physicians, to complete the full dosing protocol. We continue to monitor all patients in the trial until its scheduled completion as contemplated by the initial protocol. We refer to “extending” the trial in this manner as an “extension study.” While all patients received at least a portion of the planned dosing, only about one-half of the patients received the full number of doses of GMK. We believe that the likely potential outcomes of the ECOG trial as supplemented by the extension study are as follows: if the data are good, the data could be used with data from one or more other trials in support of a filing with the FDA for marketing approval; if the data are not good or are inconclusive, it would not be useful in support of an application for marketing approval, and further studies would be required. In any event, positive data from our second phase 3 clinical trial of GMK, described below, would be required to obtain marketing approval for this product candidate. In May 2001, we initiated an international phase 3 clinical trial of the GMK vaccine to prevent the relapse of malignant melanoma. The study is being conducted with the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer, or EORTC, Europe’s leading cancer cooperative group. The EORTC phase 3 trial has completed enrollment of 1,314 patients, who are at intermediate risk for recurrence of the disease. The study recruited patients from Europe and Australia. EORTC will randomize patients after surgery to receive either GMK or the current standard of care, which is no treatment but close monitoring. Patients on the vaccine arm of the study will receive 14 doses of GMK over three years, with an estimated two years of additional follow-up. We do not expect final data from this trial until at least 2009. The primary endpoint of this trial is to compare the recurrence of melanoma in patients receiving GMK with patients receiving observation and no treatment. The study will also compare overall survival of patients in both groups. 8 Table of Contents Hepatitis C Viral Entry Inhibitor We are engaged in a research program to discover treatments for hepatitis C that block viral entry into cells. Hepatitis C is a major cause of chronic liver disease. Joint Venture Relating to PSMA In June 1999, we and Cytogen Corporation (collectively, the “Members”) formed a joint venture in the form of a limited liability company for the purposes of conducting research, development, manufacturing and marketing of products related to PSMA. With certain limited exceptions, all patents and know-how owned by us or Cytogen and used or useful in the development of PSMA-based antibody or vaccine immunotherapeutics have been licensed to the joint venture. The principal intellectual property licensed initially are several patents and patent applications owned by Sloan-Kettering that relate to PSMA. We and Cytogen must also offer to license to PSMA LLC patents, patent applications and technical information used or useful in PSMA LLC’s field to which we or Cytogen acquire licensable rights. To date, we have been principally responsible for preclinical and clinical development. By the terms of PSMA LLC, Cytogen is principally responsible for product marketing, and we have co-promotion rights. Each Member of PSMA LLC currently owns 50% of PSMA LLC. Each Member has equal representation on PSMA LLC’s management committee, equal voting rights, equal rights to profits and losses of PSMA LLC and equal rights upon liquidation, provided there is no dilution of either Member’s ownership interest as discussed below. Pursuant to PSMA LLC agreement, a Member’s voting and ownership interest will be diluted if it fails to make required capital contributions. Under specified circumstances, a change in control of one of the Members may result in that Member’s loss of voting, management and marketing rights. In general, the amount of funds that we and Cytogen must contribute to fund the operations of PSMA LLC is based on budgets and related work plans that are required to be approved by both parties and updated annually. We are required to fund that portion of the budget equal to our percentage interest in PSMA LLC (currently 50%). We were required to fund and recognize the initial cost of research up to $3.0 million. During the fourth quarter of 2001, we had surpassed the $3.0 million in funding for research costs, and funding obligations were thereafter shared equally by Cytogen and us. As of December 31, 2005, our portion of this joint funding obligation that we have paid was $13.2 million. According to PSMA LLC agreement, we were allowed to directly pursue and obtain government grants in support of the PSMA programs and retain related amounts not to exceed $3.0 million. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview—Joint Venture with Cytogen Corporation.” PSMA LLC currently has no approved 2006 budget or work plan because we and Cytogen have not yet reached agreement with respect to a number of matters relating to the joint venture. However, we and Cytogen are required to fulfill obligations under existing contractual commitments as of December 31, 2005. Although work on the PSMA projects continues, if we do not reach an agreement regarding the 2006 budget and work plan, the programs conducted by PSMA LLC would likely be delayed or halted and PSMA LLC could be dissolved. We and Cytogen provide research and development services to PSMA LLC and are compensated for our services based on agreed upon terms which approximate our cost. All inventions made by us in connection with our research and development services to PSMA LLC were required to be assigned to PSMA LLC for its use and benefit. The principal PSMA LLC agreements generally terminate upon the last to expire of the patents licensed by the Members to PSMA LLC or upon a breach by either Member that is not cured within 60 days of written notice. Of the patents and patent applications that are the subject of PSMA LLC, the issued patents expire on dates ranging from 2014 and 2016. Patent term extensions and pending patent applications may extend the period of patent protection and thus the term of PSMA LLC agreements, when and if such patent applications are allowed and issued. Licenses We are a party to license agreements under which we have obtained rights to use certain technologies in our product development programs. Our joint venture with Cytogen has also entered into license agreements with third parties. Set forth below is a summary of the more significant of these licenses. 9 Table of Contents Progenics Licenses Wyeth. We and Wyeth Pharmaceuticals (“Wyeth”) entered into a License and Co-Development Agreement (the “Collaboration Agreement”) dated December 23, 2005 for the development and commercialization of MNTX. Under the Collaboration Agreement, Wyeth paid to us a $60 million non-refundable upfront payment. Wyeth is obligated to make up to $356.5 million in additional payments to us upon the achievement of milestones and contingent events in the development and commercialization of MNTX. All costs for the development of MNTX incurred by Wyeth or us starting January 1, 2006 are to be paid by Wyeth. We will be reimbursed for our out-of-pocket development costs by Wyeth and will receive reimbursement for our efforts based on the number of our full time equivalent employees (FTEs) devoted to the development project. Wyeth is obligated to pay to us royalties on the sale by Wyeth of MNTX throughout the world during the applicable royalty periods. The Collaboration Agreement establishes a Joint Steering Committee (“JSC”) and a Joint Development Committee (“JDC”), each with an equal number of representatives of both Wyeth and us. The Joint Steering Committee is responsible for coordinating the key activities of Wyeth and us under the Collaboration Agreement. The Joint Development Committee is responsible for overseeing, coordinating and expediting the development of MNTX by Wyeth and us. The Collaboration Agreement contemplates the development and commercialization of three products: (i) a subcutaneous form of MNTX, to be used in patients with opioid-induced constipation; (ii) an intravenous form of MNTX, to be used in patients with post-operative bowel dysfunction; and, (iii) an oral form of MNTX, to be used in patients with opioid-induced constipation. Under the Collaboration Agreement, we granted to Wyeth an exclusive, worldwide license, even as to us, to develop and commercialize MNTX. We are responsible for developing the subcutaneous and intravenous forms of MNTX in the United States, until they receive regulatory approval. Wyeth is responsible for the development of the subcutaneous and intravenous forms of MNTX outside of the United States. Wyeth is responsible for the development of the oral form of MNTX, both within the United States and in the rest of the world. In the event the JSC approves any formulation of MNTX other than subcutaneous, intravenous or oral or any other indication for the products currently contemplated using the subcutaneous, intravenous or oral forms of MNTX, Wyeth will be responsible for development of such products, including conducting clinical trials and obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval. We will remain the owner of all US regulatory filings and approvals relating to the subcutaneous and intravenous forms of MNTX. Wyeth will be the owner of all US regulatory filings and approvals related to the oral form of MNTX. Wyeth will be the owner of all regulatory filings and approvals outside the United States relating to all forms of MNTX. Wyeth is responsible for the commercialization of the subcutaneous, intravenous and oral products throughout the world, will pay all costs of commercialization of all products, including all manufacturing costs, and will retain all proceeds from the sale of the products, subject to the royalties payable by Wyeth to us. Decisions with respect to commercialization of any products developed under the Collaboration Agreement will be made solely by Wyeth. We will transfer to Wyeth, at a mutually agreeable time, all existing supply agreements with third parties for MNTX and will sublicense any intellectual property rights to permit Wyeth to manufacture MNTX, during the development and commercialization phases of the Collaboration Agreement, in both bulk and finished form for all products worldwide. We have an option (the “Co-Promotion Option”) to enter into a Co-Promotion Agreement to co-promote any of the products developed under the Collaboration Agreement, subject to certain conditions. The extent of our co-promotion activities and the fee that we will be paid by Wyeth for these activities, will be established when we exercise our option. Wyeth will record all sales of products worldwide (including those sold by us, if any, under a Co-Promotion Agreement). Wyeth may terminate any Co-Promotion Agreement if a top 15 pharmaceutical company acquires control of us. Wyeth has agreed to certain limitations on its ability to purchase our equity securities and to solicit proxies. The Collaboration Agreement extends, unless terminated earlier, on a country-by-country and product-by-product basis, until the last to expire royalty period, as defined, for any product. Progenics may terminate the Collaboration Agreement at any time upon 90 days of written notice to Wyeth (30 days in the case of breach of a payment obligation) upon material breach that is not cured. Wyeth may, with or without cause, following the second anniversary of the first commercial sale, as defined, of the first commercial product in the U.S., terminate the Collaboration Agreement by providing Progenics with at least 360 days prior written notice of such termination. Wyeth may also terminate the agreement (i) upon 30 days written notice following one or more serious safety or efficacy issues that arise, as defined, and (ii) at any time, upon 90 days written notice of a material breach that is not cured by Progenics. Upon termination of the Collaboration Agreement, the ownership of the license we granted to Wyeth will depend on the party that initiates the termination and the reason for the termination. 10 Table of Contents UR Labs. On December 22, 2005, we acquired certain rights for our lead investigational drug, methylnaltrexone (“MNTX”), from several of our licensors. In 2001, we entered into an exclusive sublicense agreement with UR Labs, Inc. (“URL”) to develop and commercialize MNTX (the “MNTX Sublicense”) in exchange for rights to future payments resulting from the MNTX Sublicense. As of December 31, 2005 we had paid to UR Labs $550,000 under this agreement. In 1989, URL obtained an exclusive license to MNTX, as amended, from the University of Chicago (“UC”) under an Option and License Agreement dated May 8, 1985, as amended (the “URL-Chicago License”). In 2001, URL also entered into an agreement with certain heirs of Dr. Leon Goldberg (the “Goldberg Distributees”), which provided them with the right to receive payments based upon revenues received by URL from the development of the MNTX Sublicense (the “URL-Goldberg Agreement”). On December 22, 2005, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Reorganization (the “Purchase Agreement”) by and among Progenics Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Progenics Pharmaceuticals Nevada, Inc., UR Labs, Inc. and the shareholders of UR Labs, Inc. (the “URL Shareholders”), under which we acquired substantially all of the assets of URL, comprised of its rights under the URL-Chicago License, the MNTX Sublicense and the URL-Goldberg Agreement, thus assuming URL’s rights and responsibilities under those agreements and extinguishing our obligation to make royalty and other payments to URL. On December 22, 2005, we entered into an Assignment and Assumption Agreement with the Goldberg Distributees, under which we assumed all rights and obligations of the Goldberg Distributees under the URL-Goldberg Agreement, thereby extinguishing URL’s (and consequentially, our) obligations to make payments to the Goldberg Distributees. Although we no longer have any obligation to make royalty payments to URL or the Goldbergs, we continue to have an obligation to make those payments (including royalties) to the University of Chicago that would have been made by URL. In consideration for the assignment of the Goldberg Distributees’ rights and of the acquisition of the assets of URL described above, we issued, on December 22, 2005, a total of 686,000 shares of our common stock, with a fair value of $15.8 million, based on a closing price of our common stock of $23.09, and paid a total of $2,604,900 in cash (representing the opening market value, $22.85 per share, of 114,000 shares of our common stock on the date of the acquisition) to the URL Shareholders and the Goldberg Distributees and paid $310,000 in transaction fees. We accounted for the acquisition of the rights described above from the licensors, the only asset acquired, as an asset purchase. The acquired rights relate to the MNTX Sublicense and our research and development activities for MNTX, for which technological feasibility has not yet been established, for which there is no alternative future use and, which has not received regulatory approval for marketing. Accordingly, the entire purchase price of $18.7 million was recorded as license expense, as a separate line item in the Company’s Statement of Operations, in the period incurred. PDL BioPharma, Inc. (formerly, Protein Design Labs). Pursuant to an agreement, Protein Design Labs (“PDL”) developed a humanized PRO 140 monoclonal antibody and granted to us related exclusive and nonexclusive worldwide licenses under patents, patent applications and know-how. In general, the license agreement terminates on the later of ten years from the first commercial sale of a product developed under the agreement or the last date on which there is an unexpired patent or a patent application that has been pending for less than ten years, unless sooner terminated. Thereafter, the license is fully paid. The last of the presently issued patents expires in 2014; however, patent applications filed in the U.S. and internationally that we have also licensed and patent term extensions may extend the period of our license rights, when and if such patent applications are allowed and issued or patent term extensions are granted. We may terminate the license agreement on 60 days prior written notice. In addition, either party may terminate the license agreement, upon ten days written notice, for breach involving failure of the counterparty to make timely payments or for breach of other material terms of the agreement, upon 30 days prior written notice, that is not cured by the other party. As of December 31, 2005, we have paid to PDL approximately $3.9 million under this agreement. If all milestones specified under the agreement are achieved, we will be obligated to pay PDL an additional approximately $3.0 million. We are also required to pay annual maintenance fees of $150,000 and royalties based on the sale of products we develop under the license, although our obligation to pay the annual maintenance fee has been suspended until the earlier of a specified milestone or December 31, 2006. In the event of a default by one party, the agreement may be terminated, after an opportunity to cure, by the non-defaulting party upon prior written notice. Sloan-Kettering. We are party to a license agreement with Sloan-Kettering under which we obtained the worldwide, exclusive rights to specified technology relating to ganglioside conjugate vaccines, including GMK, and its use to treat or prevent cancer. In general, the Sloan-Kettering license agreement terminates upon the later to occur of the expiration of the last to expire of the licensed patents or 15 years from the date of the first commercial sale of a licensed product pursuant to the agreement, unless sooner terminated. Patents that are presently issued expire in 2014; however, pending patent applications that we have also licensed and patent term extensions may extend the license period, when and if the patent applications are allowed and issued or patent term extensions are granted. In addition to the patents and patent applications, we have also licensed from Sloan-Kettering the exclusive rights to use relevant technical information and know-how. A number of Sloan-Kettering physician-scientists also serve as consultants to Progenics. 11 Table of Contents Our license agreement requires us to achieve development milestones. The agreement states that we are required to have filed for marketing approval of a drug by 2000 and to commence manufacturing and distribution of a drug by 2002. We have not achieved these milestones due to delays that we believe could not have been reasonably avoided. The agreement provides that Sloan-Kettering shall not unreasonably withhold consent to a revision of the milestone dates under specified circumstances, and we believe that the delays referred to above satisfy the criteria for a revision of the milestone dates. While we have had discussions with Sloan-Kettering to obtain its consent to a revision of the milestone dates, Sloan-Kettering has not consented to a revision as of this time. The agreement may be terminated, after an opportunity to cure, by Sloan-Kettering for cause upon prior written notice. As of December 31, 2005, we have paid to Sloan-Kettering $1.0 million under this agreement. In addition, we are obligated to pay royalties based on the sales of products under the license. We have a $200,000 minimum royalty payment obligation in any given calendar year, which is fully creditable against currently earned royalties payable by us to Sloan-Kettering in such year based on sales of licensed products. We have an oral understanding with Sloan-Kettering which suspends our obligation to make minimum royalty payments until a time in the future to be agreed upon by the parties. Columbia University. We are party to a license agreement with Columbia University under which we obtained exclusive, worldwide rights to specified technology and materials relating to CD4. In general, the license agreement terminates (unless sooner terminated) upon the expiration of the last to expire of the licensed patents, which is presently 2021; however, patent applications that we have also licensed and patent term extensions may extend the period of our license rights, when and if the patent applications are allowed and issued or patent term extensions are granted. Our license agreement requires us to achieve development milestones. Among others, the agreement states that we are required to have filed for marketing approval of a drug by June 2001 and to be manufacturing a drug for commercial distribution by June 2004. We have not achieved either of these milestones due to delays that we believe could not have been reasonably avoided and are reasonably beyond our control. The agreement provides that Columbia shall not unreasonably withhold consent to a revision of the milestone dates under specified circumstances, and we believe that the delays referred to above satisfy the criteria for a revision of the milestone dates. While we have had discussions with Columbia to obtain its consent to a revision of the milestone dates, Columbia has not consented to a revision as of this time. The agreement may be terminated, after an opportunity to cure, by Columbia for cause upon prior written notice. As of December 31, 2005, we have paid to Columbia $865,000 under this agreement. We are obligated to pay Columbia a milestone fee of $225,000 and annual maintenance fees of $50,000, which were accrued at December 31, 2005. In addition, we are required to pay royalties based on the sale of products we develop under the license, if any. Aquila Biopharmaceuticals. We have entered into a license and supply agreement with Aquila Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Antigenics Inc., pursuant to which Aquila agreed to supply us with all of our requirements for the QS-21TM adjuvant used in GMK. QS-21is the lead compound in the Stimulon® family of adjuvants developed and owned by Aquila. In general, the license agreement terminates upon the expiration of the last to expire of the licensed patents, unless sooner terminated. In the U.S., the licensed patent will expire in 2008. Our license agreement requires us to achieve development milestones. The agreement states that we are required to have filed for marketing approval of a drug by 2001 and to commence the manufacture and distribution of a drug by 2003. We have not achieved these milestones due to delays that we believe could not have been reasonably avoided. The agreement provides that Aquila shall not unreasonably withhold consent to a reasonable revision of the milestone dates under specified circumstances, and we believe that the delays referred to above satisfy the criteria for a revision of the milestone dates. Aquila has not consented to a revision of the milestone dates. In the event of a default by one party, the agreement may be terminated, after an opportunity to cure, by the non-defaulting party upon prior written notice. As of December 31, 2005, we have paid to Aquila $758,000 under this agreement. We have no future cash payment obligations relating to milestones under the agreement, although we are required to pay Aquila royalties on the sale of products, if any, we develop under the license. 12 Table of Contents PSMA LLC Licenses Abgenix. In February 2001, PSMA LLC entered into a worldwide exclusive licensing agreement with Abgenix to use Abgenix’ XenoMouse™ technology for generating fully human antibodies to the joint venture’s PSMA antigen. In consideration for the license, PSMA LLC paid a nonrefundable, non-creditable license fee and is obligated to pay additional payments upon the occurrence of defined milestones associated with the development and commercialization program for products incorporating an antibody generated utilizing the XenoMouse technology. As of December 31, 2005, PSMA LLC has paid to Abgenix $850,000 under this agreement. If PSMA LLC achieves certain milestones specified under the agreement, it will be obligated to pay Abgenix an additional approximately $6.2 million. Furthermore, PSMA LLC is required to pay royalties based upon net sales of antibody products, if any. This agreement may be terminated, after an opportunity to cure, by Abgenix for cause upon 30 days prior written notice. PSMA LLC has the right to terminate this agreement upon 30 days prior written notice. If not terminated early, this agreement continues until the later of the expiration of the XenoMouse technology patents that may result from pending patent applications or seven years from the first commercial sale of the products. AlphaVax Human Vaccines. In September 2001, PSMA LLC entered into a worldwide exclusive license agreement with AlphaVax Human Vaccines to use the AlphaVax Replicon Vector system to create a therapeutic prostate cancer vaccine incorporating PSMA LLC’s proprietary PSMA antigen. In consideration for the license, PSMA LLC paid a nonrefundable, noncreditable license fee and is obligated to pay additional payments upon the occurrence of certain defined milestones associated with the development and commercialization program for products incorporating AlphaVax’ system. As of December 31, 2005, PSMA LLC has paid to AlphaVax $942,000 under this agreement. If PSMA LLC achieves certain milestones specified under the agreement, it will be obligated to pay AlphaVax an additional approximately $5.3 million. Furthermore, PSMA LLC is required to pay annual maintenance fees until the first commercial sale and royalties based upon net sales of any products developed using AlphaVax’ system. This agreement may be terminated, after an opportunity to cure, by AlphaVax under specified circumstances that include PSMA LLC’s failure to achieve milestones; however, the consent of AlphaVax to revisions to the due dates for the milestones shall not be unreasonably withheld. PSMA LLC has the right to terminate the agreement upon 30 days prior written notice. If not terminated early, this agreement continues until the later of the expiration of the patents relating to AlphaVax’ system or seven years from the first commercial sale of the products developed using AlphaVax’ system. The last of the presently issued patents expires in 2015; however, patent applications filed in the U.S. and internationally that we have also licensed and patent term extensions may extend the period of our license rights, when and if such patent applications are allowed and issued or patent term extensions are granted. Seattle Genetics. In June 2005, PSMA LLC entered into a collaboration agreement (the “SGI Agreement”) with Seattle Genetics, Inc. (“SGI”). Under the SGI Agreement, SGI provided an exclusive worldwide license to its proprietary antibody-drug conjugate technology (the “ADC Technology”) to PSMA LLC. Under the license, PSMA LLC has the right to use the ADC Technology to link cell-killing drugs to PSMA LLC’s monoclonal antibodies that target prostate-specific membrane antigen. During the initial research term of the SGI Agreement, SGI also is required to provide technical information to PSMA LLC related to implementation of the licensed technology, which period may be extended for an additional period upon payment of an additional fee. PSMA LLC may replace prostate-specific membrane antigen with another antigen, subject to certain restrictions, upon payment of an antigen replacement fee. The ADC Technology is based, in part, on technology licensed by SGI from third parties (the “Licensors”). PSMA LLC is responsible for research, product development, manufacturing and commercialization of all products under the SGI Agreement. PSMA LLC may sub-license the ADC Technology to a third-party to manufacture the ADC’s for both research and commercial use. PSMA LLC made a $2.0 million technology access payment to SGI upon execution of the SGI Agreement and will make additional maintenance payments during the term of the SGI Agreement. In addition, PSMA LLC will make payments, aggregating $15.0 million, upon the achievement of certain defined milestones and will pay royalties to SGI and its Licensors, as applicable, on a percentage of net sales, as defined. In the event that SGI provides materials or services to PSMA LLC under the SGI Agreement, SGI will receive supply and/or labor cost payments from PSMA LLC at agreed-upon rates. PSMA LLC’s monoclonal antibody project is currently in the pre-clinical phase of research and development. All costs incurred by PSMA LLC under the SGI Agreement during the research and development phase of the project will be expensed in the period incurred. The SGI Agreement terminates at the later of (a) the tenth anniversary of the first commercial sale of each licensed product in each country or (b) the latest date of expiration of patents underlying the licensed products. PSMA LLC may terminate the SGI Agreement upon advance written notice to SGI. SGI may terminate the SGI Agreement if PSMA LLC breaches an SGI in-license that is not cured within a specified time period after written notice. In addition, either party may terminate the SGI Agreement upon breach by the other party that is not cured within a specified time period after written notice or in the event of bankruptcy of the other party. The ability of PSMA LLC to comply with the terms of the SGI Agreement will depend on agreement by the Members regarding work plans and budgets of PSMA LLC in future years. As of December 31, 2005, PSMA LLC has paid to SGI approximately $34,000 under this agreement for supply and labor cost payments. ADARC. We have a letter agreement with The Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center pursuant to which we have the exclusive right to pursue the commercial development, directly or with a partner, of products related to HIV based on patents jointly owned by ADARC and us. 13 Table of Contents Rights and Obligations. We have the right generally to defend and enforce patents licensed by us, either in the first instance or if the licensor chooses not to do so. We bear the cost of engaging in all of these activities with respect to our license agreements with Sloan-Kettering for GMK, Columbia for our HIV product candidates subject to the Columbia license and the University of Chicago for MNTX. Under our Collaboration Agreement, Wyeth has the right, at its expense, to defend and enforce the MNTX patents licensed to Wyeth by us. With most of our other license agreements, the licensor bears the cost of engaging in all of these activities, although we may share in those costs under certain circumstances. Historically, our costs of defending patent rights, both our own and those we license, have not been material. The licenses to which we are a party impose various milestone, commercialization, sublicensing, royalty and other payment, insurance, indemnification and other obligations on us and are subject to certain reservations of rights. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in the termination of the applicable agreement, which would likely cause us to terminate the related development program and cause a complete loss of our investment in that program. Patents and Proprietary Technology Our policy is to protect our proprietary technology, and we consider the protection of our rights to be important to our business. In addition to seeking U.S. patent protection for many of our inventions, we generally file patent applications in Canada, Japan, European countries that are party to the European Patent Convention and additional foreign countries on a selective basis in order to protect the inventions that we consider to be important to the development of our foreign business. Generally, patents issued in the U.S. are effective for: · the longer of 17 years from the date of issue or 20 years from the earliest asserted filing date of the corresponding patent application, if the patent application was filed prior to June 8, 1995; and · 20 years from the earliest asserted filing date of the corresponding patent application, if the application was filed on or after June 8, 1995. In addition, in certain instances, the patent term can be extended up to a maximum of five years to recapture a portion of the term during which the FDA regulatory review was being conducted. The duration of foreign patents varies in accordance with the provisions of applicable local law, although most countries provide for patent terms of 20 years from the earliest asserted filing date and allow patent extensions similar to those permitted in the U.S. We also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain a competitive position in our product areas. We generally require our employees, consultants and corporate partners who have access to our proprietary information to sign confidentiality agreements. Currently our patent portfolio relating to our proprietary technologies in the symptom management and supportive care, HIV and cancer areas is comprised, on a worldwide basis, of 136 patents that have been issued and 183 pending patent applications, which we either own directly or of which we are the exclusive licensee. Our issued patents expire on dates ranging from 2006 through 2022. In addition, PSMA LLC owns directly or is the exclusive licensee of six patents that have been issued and 31 pending patent applications. PSMA LLC’s issued patents expire on dates ranging from 2014 to 2016. Patent term extensions and pending patent applications may extend the period of patent protection afforded our products in development. We are aware of intellectual property rights held by third parties that relate to products or technologies we are developing. For example, we are aware of other groups investigating methylnaltrexone and other peripheral opioid antagonists, PSMA or related compounds and CCR5 monoclonal antibodies and of patents held, and patent applications filed, by these groups in those areas. While the validity of issued patents, patentability of pending patent applications and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if asserted against us, any related patent rights could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products. The research, development and commercialization of a biopharmaceutical often involve alternative development and optimization routes, which are presented at various stages in the development process. The preferred routes cannot be predicted at the outset of a research and development program because they will depend upon subsequent discoveries and test results. There are numerous third-party patents in our field, and it is possible that to pursue the preferred development route of one or more of our products we will need to obtain a license to a patent, which would decrease the ultimate profitability of the applicable product. If we cannot negotiate a license, we might have to pursue a less desirable development route or terminate the program altogether. 14 Table of Contents Government Regulation Progenics and our products are subject to comprehensive regulation by the Food and Drug Administration in the U.S. and by comparable authorities in other countries. These national agencies and other federal, state and local entities regulate, among other things, the preclinical and clinical testing, safety, effectiveness, approval, manufacture, labeling, marketing, export, storage, recordkeeping, advertising and promotion of our products. None of our product candidates has received marketing or other approval from the FDA or any other similar regulatory authority. FDA approval of our products, including a review of the manufacturing processes and facilities used to produce such products, will be required before such products may be marketed in the U.S. The process of obtaining approvals from the FDA can be costly, time consuming and subject to unanticipated delays. We cannot assure you that approvals of our proposed products, processes, or facilities will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. If we experience delays in obtaining, or do not obtain, approvals for our products, commercialization of our products would be slowed or stopped. Moreover, even if we obtain regulatory approval, the approval may include significant limitations on indicated uses for which the product could be marketed or other significant marketing restrictions. The process required by the FDA before our products may be approved for marketing in the U.S. generally involves: · preclinical laboratory and animal tests; · submission to the FDA of an investigational new drug application, or IND, which must become effective before clinical trials may begin; · adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the product for its intended indication; · submission to the FDA of a marketing application; and FDA review of the marketing application in order to determine, among other things, whether the product is safe and effective for its intended uses. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry and animal studies to gain preliminary information about a product’s pharmacology and toxicology and to identify any safety problems that would preclude testing in humans. Products must generally be manufactured according to current Good Manufacturing Practices, and preclinical safety tests must be conducted by laboratories that comply with FDA regulations regarding good laboratory practices. The results of the preclinical tests are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND (Investigational New Drug) application. An IND is a submission which the sponsor of a clinical trial of an investigational new drug must make to the FDA and which must become effective before clinical trials may commence. The IND submission must include, among other things: · a description of the sponsor’s investigational plan; · protocols for each planned study; · chemistry, manufacturing, and control information; · pharmacology and toxicology information; and · a summary of previous human experience with the investigational drug. Unless the FDA objects to, makes comments to or raises questions concerning an IND, the IND will become effective 30 days following its receipt by the FDA, and initial clinical studies may begin, although companies often obtain affirmative FDA approval before beginning such studies. We cannot assure you that submission of an IND by us will result in FDA authorization to commence clinical trials. A New Drug Application, or NDA, is an application to the FDA to market a new drug. The NDA must contain, among other things, information on: · chemistry, manufacturing, and controls; · non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology; 15 Table of Contents · human pharmacokinetics and bioavailability; and · clinical data. The new drug may not be marketed in the U.S. until the FDA has approved the NDA. A Biologic License Application, or BLA, is an application to the FDA to market a biological product. The BLA must contain, among other things, data derived from nonclinical laboratory and clinical studies which demonstrate that the product meets prescribed standards of safety, purity and potency, and a full description of manufacturing methods. The biological product may not be marketed in the U.S. until a biologic license is issued. Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational new drug to healthy volunteers or to patients under the supervision of a qualified principal investigator. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with the FDA’s Good Clinical Practice requirements under protocols that detail, among other things, the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used to monitor safety, and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. Further, each clinical study must be conducted under the auspices of an Institutional Review Board. The Institutional Review Board will consider, among other things, ethical factors, the safety of human subjects, the possible liability of the institution and the informed consent disclosure which must be made to participants in the clinical trial. Clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, although the phases may overlap. During phase 1, when the drug is initially administered to human subjects, the product is tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion. Phase 2 involves studies in a limited patient population to: · evaluate preliminarily the efficacy of the product for specific, targeted indications; · determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage; and · identify possible adverse effects and safety risks. When a new product is found to have an effect and to have an acceptable safety profile in phase 2 evaluation, phase 3 trials are undertaken in order to further evaluate clinical efficacy and to further test for safety within an expanded patient population. The FDA may suspend clinical trials at any point in this process if it concludes that clinical subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. The results of the preclinical studies and clinical studies, the chemistry and manufacturing data, and the proposed labeling, among other things, are submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA or BLA, approval of which must be obtained prior to commencement of commercial sales. The FDA may refuse to accept the application for filing if certain administrative and content criteria are not satisfied, and even after accepting the application for review, the FDA may require additional testing or information before approval of the application. Our analysis of the results of our clinical studies is subject to review and interpretation by the FDA, which may differ from our analysis. We cannot assure you that our data or our interpretation of data will be accepted by the FDA. In any event, the FDA must deny an NDA or BLA if applicable regulatory requirements are not ultimately satisfied. In addition, we may encounter delays or rejections based upon changes in applicable law or FDA policy during the period of product development and FDA regulatory review. Moreover, if regulatory approval of a product is granted, such approval may be made subject to various conditions, including post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety of the product, or may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which it may be marketed. Finally, product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur following initial marketing. Both before and after approval is obtained, a product, its manufacturer, and the sponsor of the marketing application for the product are subject to comprehensive regulatory oversight. Violations of regulatory requirements at any stage, including the preclinical and clinical testing process, the approval process, or thereafter, may result in various adverse consequences, including FDA delay in approving or refusal to approve a product, withdrawal of an approved product from the market or the imposition of criminal penalties against the manufacturer or sponsor. In addition, later discovery of previously unknown problems may result in restrictions on such product, manufacturer, or sponsor, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Also, new government requirements may be established that could delay or prevent regulatory approval of our products under development. 16 Table of Contents Whether or not FDA approval has been obtained, approval of a pharmaceutical product by comparable government regulatory authorities in foreign countries must be obtained prior to marketing such product in such countries. The approval procedure varies from country to country, and the time required may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. Although there are some procedures for unified filing for certain European countries, in general, each country has its own procedures and requirements. We do not currently have any facilities or personnel outside of the U.S. In addition to regulations enforced by the FDA, we are also subject to regulation under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and various other present and potential future federal, state or local regulations. Our research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, viruses and various radioactive compounds. Although we believe that our safety procedures for storing, handling, using and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by applicable regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contaminations or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any legal and regulatory violations as well as damages that result. Any such liability could have a material adverse effect on Progenics. Manufacturing We currently rely on single-source third party manufacturers for the supply of both bulk and finished form MNTX. We believe that our existing arrangements with such single-source third party manufacturers are reliable and adequate for the balance of our clinical trial and initial commercial supply requirements. We will transfer to Wyeth, at a mutually agreeable time, any existing supply agreements with third parties for MNTX. In March 2005, we entered into an agreement with Mallinckrodt Inc. for the supply of the bulk form of MNTX. The contract provides for Mallinckrodt to supply product based on a rolling forecast to be provided by us to Mallinckrodt with respect to our anticipated needs and for the purchase by us of product on specified pricing terms. Under this agreement, we are obligated to purchase a portion of our requirements for bulk form MNTX from Mallinckrodt, although we have no set minimum purchase obligation. Product supplied to us by Mallinckrodt is required to satisfy technical specifications agreed to by us. The contract term extends to January 1, 2008 and renews automatically thereafter for successive one-year terms unless either party provides prior notice to the other. Prior to its expiration, the contract may be terminated by either party upon a material breach by the other party or upon the occurrence of specified bankruptcy or insolvency events. We currently manufacture PRO 140, GMK and protein vaccines in our biologics pilot production facilities in Tarrytown, New York. We currently have one 150 liter bioreactor in operation and are in the process of installing a second 150 liter bioreactor to increase our manufacturing capacity in support of our clinical programs. We have also acquired a 1,000 liter bioreactor, and we are considering the appropriate time and manner for installing and deploying this additional resource. We believe that our existing production facilities will be sufficient to meet our initial needs for clinical trials for these product candidates. However, these facilities may be insufficient for all of our late-stage clinical trials for these product candidates and would be insufficient for commercial-scale requirements. We may be required to further expand our manufacturing staff and facilities, obtain new facilities or contract with third parties or corporate collaborators to assist with production. In order to establish a full-scale commercial manufacturing facility for any of our product candidates, we would need to spend substantial additional funds, hire and train significant numbers of employees and comply with the extensive FDA regulations applicable to such a facility. Sales and Marketing We plan to market products for which we obtain regulatory approval through co-marketing, co-promotion, licensing and distribution arrangements with third-party collaborators. We may also consider contracting with a third-party professional pharmaceutical detailing and sales organization to perform the marketing function for our products. Under the terms of our Collaboration Agreement with Wyeth, Wyeth granted us an option (the “Co-Promotion Option”) to enter into a Co-Promotion Agreement to co-promote any of the MNTX products developed under the Collaboration Agreement, subject to certain conditions. The extent of our co-promotion activities and the fee that we will be paid by Wyeth for these activities, will be established when we exercise our option. Wyeth will record all sales of products worldwide (including those sold by us, if any, under a Co-Promotion Agreement). In addition, Cytogen has certain marketing rights with respect to the PSMA product candidates. 17 Table of Contents Competition Competition in the biopharmaceutical industry is intense and characterized by ongoing research and development and technological change. We face competition from many companies and major universities and research institutions in the U.S. and abroad. We will face competition from companies marketing existing products or developing new products for diseases targeted by our technologies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources, experience in conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals for their products, operating experience, research and development and marketing capabilities and production capabilities than we do. Our products under development may not compete successfully with existing products or products under development by other companies, universities and other institutions. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining FDA marketing approval for products more rapidly than we do. Drug manufacturers that are first in the market with a therapeutic for a specific indication generally obtain and maintain a significant competitive advantage over later entrants. Accordingly, we believe that the speed with which we develop products, complete the clinical trials and approval processes and ultimately supply commercial quantities of the products to the market will be an important competitive factor. With respect to MNTX, there are currently no FDA approved products for reversing the debilitating side effects of opioid pain therapy or for the treatment of post-operative bowel dysfunction. We are, however, aware of a product candidate that targets these therapeutic indications. This product, Entereg™ (alvimopan), is under development by Adolor Corporation, in collaboration with an affiliate of GlaxoSmith-Kline plc. Entereg is in advanced clinical development and Adolor has received an approvable letter from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for Entereg regarding the treatment of post-operative ileus. We believe, however, that Entereg’s effects are limited to the lumen of the gastrointestinal tract, whereas MNTX is available systemically outside of the central nervous system. Additionally, it has been reported that a European specialty pharmaceutical company is in early clinical development of an oral formulation of methylnaltrexone for use in opioid-induced constipation. With respect to our products for the treatment of HIV infection, three classes of products made by our competitors have been approved for marketing by the FDA for the treatment of HIV infection and AIDS: reverse transcriptase inhibitors, protease inhibitors and entry inhibitors. These drugs have shown efficacy in reducing the concentration of HIV in the blood and prolonging asymptomatic periods in HIV-positive individuals, especially when administered in combination. We are aware of several competitors that are developing alternative treatments for HIV infection, including small molecules and monoclonal antibodies, some of which are directed against CCR5. With respect to GMK, the FDA and certain other regulatory authorities have approved high-dose alpha-interferon for marketing as a treatment for patients with high-risk melanoma. High-dose alpha-interferon has demonstrated efficacy for this indication. With respect to the immunotherapeutic products based on PSMA that we have been developing through PSMA LLC , there are traditional forms of treatment for prostate cancer such as radiation and surgery. However, if the disease spreads, these forms of treatment can be ineffective. We are aware of several competitors who are developing alternative treatments for prostate cancer, including in vivo and ex vivo immunotherapies, some of which are directed against PSMA. A significant amount of research in the biopharmaceutical field is also being carried out at academic and government institutions. An element of our research and development strategy is to in-license technology and product candidates from academic and government institutions. These institutions are becoming increasingly sensitive to the commercial value of their findings and are becoming more aggressive in pursuing patent protection and negotiating licensing arrangements to collect royalties for use of technology that they have developed. These institutions may also market competitive commercial products on their own or in collaboration with competitors and will compete with us in recruiting highly qualified scientific personnel. Any resulting increase in the cost or decrease in the availability of technology or product candidates from these institutions may adversely affect our business strategy. Competition with respect to our technologies and product candidates is and will be based, among other things, on: · efficacy and safety of our products; · timing and scope of regulatory approval; · product reliability and availability; · sales, marketing and manufacturing capabilities; 18 Table of Contents · capabilities of our collaborators; · reimbursement coverage from insurance companies and others; · degree of clinical benefits of our product candidates relative to their costs; · method of administering a product; · price; and · patent protection. Our competitive position will also depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, to obtain patent protection or otherwise develop proprietary products or processes, and to secure sufficient capital resources for the typically substantial period between technological conception and commercial sales. Competitive disadvantages in any of these factors could materially harm our business and financial condition. Product Liability The testing, manufacturing and marketing of our products involves an inherent risk of product liability attributable to unwanted and potentially serious health effects. To the extent we elect to test, manufacture or market products independently, we will bear the risk of product liability directly. We have obtained product liability insurance coverage in the amount of $5.0 million per occurrence, subject to a deductible and a $5.0 million aggregate limitation. In addition, where the local statutory requirements exceed the limits of our existing insurance or local policies of insurance are required, we maintain additional clinical trial liability insurance to meet these requirements. This insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations. We may not be able to continue to maintain insurance at a reasonable cost, or in adequate amounts. Human Resources At December 31, 2005, we had 149 full-time employees, 24 of whom, including Dr.Maddon, hold Ph.D. degrees and four of whom, including Dr.Maddon, hold M.D.degrees. At such date, 124 employees were engaged in research and development, medical and regulatory affairs and manufacturing activities and 25 were engaged in finance, legal, administration and business development. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. None of our employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. 19 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and operations entail a variety of serious risks and uncertainties, including those described below. Our product development programs are inherently risky. We are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of product candidates based on new technologies. Our MNTX product candidate, which is designed to reverse certain side effects induced by opioids and to treat post-operative bowel dysfunction and is being developed through a collaboration with Wyeth, is based on a novel method of action that has not yet been proven to be safe or effective. No drug with MNTX’s method of action has ever received marketing approval. Additionally, some of our HIV product candidates are designed to be effective by blocking viral entry, and our GMK product candidate is designed to be a therapeutic cancer vaccine. To our knowledge, no drug designed to treat HIV infection by blocking viral entry (with one exception) and no cancer therapeutic vaccine has been approved for marketing in the U.S. Our other research and development programs, and those conducted through PSMA LLC, involve similarly novel approaches to human therapeutics. Consequently, there is little precedent for the successful commercialization of products based on our technologies. There are a number of technological challenges that we must overcome to complete most of our development efforts. We may not be able to develop successfully any of our products. We have granted to Wyeth the exclusive rights to develop and commercialize MNTX, our lead product candidate, and our resulting dependence on Wyeth exposes us to significant risks. In December 2005, we entered into a license and co-development agreement with Wyeth. Under this agreement, we granted to Wyeth the exclusive worldwide right to develop and commercialize MNTX, our lead product candidate. As a result, we are dependent on Wyeth to perform and fund development, including clinical testing, to make certain regulatory filings and to manufacture and market products containing MNTX. Our collaboration with Wyeth may not be scientifically, clinically or commercially successful. Any revenues from the sale of MNTX, if approved for sale by the FDA, will depend almost entirely on the efforts of Wyeth. Wyeth has significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources it applies to sales of the MNTX products and may not be effective in marketing such products. In addition, Wyeth is a large, diversified pharmaceutical company with global operations and its own corporate objectives, which may not be consistent with our best interests. For example, Wyeth may change its strategic focus or pursue alternative technologies in a manner that results in reduced revenues to us. In addition, we will receive milestone and contingent payments from Wyeth only if MNTX achieves specified clinical, regulatory and commercialization milestones, and we will receive royalty payments from Wyeth only if MNTX receives regulatory approval and is commercialized by Wyeth. Many of these milestone events will depend on the efforts of Wyeth. We may not receive any milestone, contingent or royalty payments from Wyeth. The Collaboration Agreement extends, unless terminated earlier, on a country-by-country and product-by-product basis, until the last to expire royalty period, as defined, for any product. Progenics may terminate the Collaboration Agreement at any time upon 90 days of written notice to Wyeth (30 days in the case of breach of a payment obligation) upon material breach that is not cured. Wyeth may, with or without cause, following the second anniversary of the first commercial sale, as defined, of the first commercial product in the U.S., terminate the Collaboration Agreement by providing Progenics with at least 360 days prior written notice of such termination. Wyeth may also terminate the agreement (i) upon 30 days written notice following one or more serious safety or efficacy issues that arise, as defined, and (ii) at any time, upon 90 days written notice of a material breach that is not cured by Progenics. Upon termination of the Collaboration Agreement, the ownership of the license we granted to Wyeth will depend on the party that initiates the termination and the reason for the termination. If our relationship with Wyeth were to terminate, we would have to either enter into a license and co-development agreement with another party or develop and commercialize MNTX ourselves. We may not be able to enter into such an agreement with another suitable company on acceptable terms or at all. To develop and commercialize MNTX on our own, we would have to develop a sales and marketing organization and a distribution infrastructure, neither of which we currently have. Developing these resources would be an expensive and lengthy process and would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Moreover, a termination of our relationship with Wyeth could seriously compromise the development program for MNTX. For example, we could experience significant delays in the development of MNTX and would have to assume full funding and other responsibility for further development and eventual commercialization. Any of these outcomes would result in delays in our ability to distribute MNTX and would increase our expenses, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our collaboration with Wyeth is multi-faceted and involves a complex sharing of control over decisions, responsibilities, costs and benefits. There are numerous potential sources of disagreement between us and Wyeth, including with respect to product development, marketing strategies, manufacturing and supply issues and rights relating to intellectual property. Wyeth has significantly greater financial and managerial resources than we do, which it could draw upon in the event of a dispute. A disagreement between Wyeth and us could lead to lengthy and expensive litigation or other dispute resolution proceedings as well as to extensive financial and operational consequences to us, and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents If testing does not yield successful results, our products will not be approved. We will need to obtain regulatory approval before we can market our product candidates. To obtain marketing approval from regulatory authorities, we or our collaborators must demonstrate a product’s safety and efficacy through extensive preclinical and clinical testing. Numerous adverse events may arise during, or as a result of, the testing process, including the following: · the results of preclinical studies may be inconclusive, or they may not be indicative of results that will be obtained in human clinical trials; · potential products may not have the desired efficacy or may have undesirable side effects or other characteristics that preclude marketing approval or limit their commercial use if approved; · after reviewing test results, we or our collaborators may abandon projects, which we previously believed to be promising; and · we, our collaborators or regulators may suspend or terminate clinical trials if we or they believe that the participating subjects or patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. Clinical testing is very expensive and can take many years. Results attained in early human clinical trials may not be indicative of results that are obtained in later clinical trials. In addition, many of our products, such as PRO 140 and the PSMA product candidates, are at an early stage of development. The successful commercialization of early stage products will require significant further research, development, testing, approvals by regulators and additional investment. Our products in the research or preclinical development stage may not yield results that would permit or justify clinical testing. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a product under development would delay or prevent marketing approval of the product, which could adversely affect our operating results and credibility. A setback in our clinical development programs could adversely affect us. We have successfully completed two pivotal phase 3 clinical trials of subcutaneous MNTX for the treatment of opioid-induced constipation in patients with advanced medical illness. We are now working with our collaborator Wyeth to submit a New Drug Application to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to market subcutaneous MNTX. We also have successfully completed a phase 2 clinical trial of intravenous MNTX in patients at risk for post-operative bowel dysfunction. Based on our end of phase 2 meeting with the FDA, we are planning a phase 3 clinical program for treatment of post-operative bowel dysfunction. We had completed phase 1 clinical trials of oral MNTX in healthy volunteers prior to our Collaboration Agreement with Wyeth. Wyeth is responsible for the worldwide development of oral MNTX and will conduct additional clinical trials of oral MNTX in chronic pain patients who experience opioid-induced constipation. If the results of any of these ongoing trials are not satisfactory, or if we encounter problems enrolling patients, or if clinical trial supply issues or other difficulties arise, our entire MNTX development program could be adversely affected, resulting in delays in commencing or completing clinical trials or in making our regulatory filing for marketing approval. The need to conduct additional clinical trials or significant revisions to our clinical development plan would lead to delays in filing for the regulatory approvals necessary to market MNTX. If the clinical trials indicate a serious problem with the safety or efficacy of an MNTX product, then Wyeth has the right under our license and co-development agreement to terminate the agreement or to stop the development or commercialization of the affected products. Since MNTX is our most clinically advanced product, any setback of these types would have a material adverse effect on our stock price and business. We also have two ongoing pivotal phase 3 clinical trials for GMK. In May 2000, our collaborating research cooperative group in one of these trials, ECOG, recommended to clinical investigators participating in the trial that they discontinue administering GMK, and as a result that trial did not complete patient dosing as contemplated by the initial trial protocol. A second pivotal phase 3 trial for GMK was initiated in May 2001 and full enrollment of 1,314 patients has been completed. We expect to assess the recurrence of cancer and overall survival of the study patients over the next several years. If the results of either of the GMK trials are not satisfactory, we may need to conduct additional clinical trials or abandon our GMK program. We have announced positive phase 1 clinical findings related to PRO 140, and we have initiated an additional phase 1b clinical trial. If the results of our phase 1b study with PRO 140 or the preclinical and clinical studies involving the PSMA vaccine and antibody candidates are not satisfactory, we would need to reconfigure our clinical trial programs to conduct additional trials or abandon the program involved. 21 Table of Contents We have a history of operating losses, and we may never be profitable. We have incurred substantial losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $188.7 million. We have derived no significant revenues from product sales or royalties. We do not expect to achieve significant product sales or royalty revenue for a number of years, if ever, other than potential revenues from MNTX. We expect to incur additional operating losses in the future, which could increase significantly as we expand our clinical trial programs and other product development efforts. Our ability to achieve and sustain profitability is dependent in part on obtaining regulatory approval to market our products and then commercializing, either alone or with others, our products. We may not be able to develop and commercialize products. Moreover, our operations may not be profitable even if any of our products under development are commercialized. We are likely to need additional financing, but our access to capital funding is uncertain. As of December 31, 2005, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, including non-current portion, totaling $173.1 million. In December 2005, we received a $60 million upfront payment from Wyeth in connection with the signing of the license and co-development agreement relating to MNTX. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we had a net loss of $69.4 million and cash provided by operating activities was $11.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. Under our agreement with Wyeth, Wyeth is responsible for all future development and commercialization costs relating to MNTX starting January 1, 2006. As a result, we expect that our spending on MNTX in 2006 and beyond will drop significantly from the amounts expended in 2005. With regard to our other product candidates, however, we expect that we will continue to incur significant expenditures for their development and we do not have committed external sources of funding for most of these projects. These expenditures will be funded from our cash on hand, or we may seek additional external funding for these expenditures, most likely through collaborative agreements, or other license or sale transactions, with one or more pharmaceutical companies, through the issuance and sale of securities or through additional government grants or contracts. We cannot predict with any certainty when we will need additional funds or how much we will need or if additional funds will be available to us. Our need for future funding will depend on numerous factors, many of which are outside our control. Our access to capital funding is uncertain. We may not be able to obtain additional funding on acceptable terms, or at all. Our inability to raise additional capital on terms reasonably acceptable to us would seriously jeopardize the future success of our business. If we raise funds by issuing and selling securities, it may be on terms that are not favorable to our existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds by selling equity securities, our current stockholders will be diluted, and new investors could have rights superior to our existing stockholders. If we raise funds by selling debt securities, we could be subject to restrictive covenants and significant repayment obligations. Our clinical trials could take longer than we expect. Although for planning purposes we forecast the commencement and completion of clinical trials, and have included many of those forecasts in reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in other public disclosures, the actual timing of these events can vary dramatically. For example, we have experienced delays in our MNTX clinical development program in the past as a result of slower than anticipated patient enrollment. These delays may recur. Delays can be caused by, among other things: · deaths or other adverse medical events involving patients or subjects in our clinical trials; · regulatory or patent issues; · interim or final results of ongoing clinical trials; · failure to enroll clinical sites as expected; · competition for enrollment from clinical trials conducted by others in similar indications; · scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions; and · manufacturing problems. 22 Table of Contents In addition, we may need to delay or suspend our clinical trials if we are unable to obtain additional funding when needed. Clinical trials involving our product candidates may not commence or be completed as forecasted. Although work on the PSMA projects continues, our clinical programs involving PSMA LLC could also be delayed by disagreements between Cytogen and us concerning funding development programs or other matters. PSMA LLC currently has no approved 2006 budget or work plan because we and Cytogen have not yet reached agreement with respect to a number of matters relating to PSMA LLC. Moreover, we have limited experience in conducting clinical trials, and we rely on others to conduct, supervise or monitor some or all aspects of some of our clinical trials. In addition, certain clinical trials for our products may be conducted by government-sponsored agencies, and consequently will be dependent on governmental participation and funding. Under our agreement with Wyeth relating to MNTX, Wyeth has the responsibility to conduct some of the clinical trials for that product candidate, including all trials outside of the United States. We will have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted them entirely on our own. As a result of these and other factors, our clinical trials may not commence or be completed as we expect or may not be conducted successfully, in which event investors’ confidence in our ability to develop products may be impaired and our stock price may decline. We are subject to extensive regulation, which can be costly and time consuming and can subject us to unanticipated fines and delays. We and our products are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA in the U.S. and by comparable authorities in other countries. These national agencies and other federal, state and local entities regulate, among other things, the preclinical and clinical testing, safety, approval, manufacture, labeling, marketing, export, storage, record keeping, advertising and promotion of pharmaceutical products. If we violate regulatory requirements at any stage, whether before or after marketing approval is obtained, we may be subject to forced removal of a product from the market, product seizure, civil and criminal penalties and other adverse consequences. Our products do not yet have, and may never obtain, the regulatory approvals needed for marketing. None of our products has been approved by applicable regulatory authorities for marketing. The process of obtaining FDA and foreign regulatory approvals often takes many years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. We have had only limited experience in filing and pursuing applications and other submissions necessary to gain marketing approvals. Our products under development may never obtain the marketing approval from the FDA or any other regulatory authority necessary for commercialization. Even if our products receive regulatory approval: · they might not obtain labeling claims necessary to make the product commercially viable (in general, labeling claims define the medical conditions for which a drug product may be marketed, and are therefore very important to the commercial success of a product); · we or our collaborators might be required to undertake post-marketing trials to verify the product’s efficacy or safety; · we, our collaborators or others might identify side effects after the product is on the market, or we or our collaborators might experience manufacturing problems, either of which could result in subsequent withdrawal of marketing approval, reformulation of the product, additional preclinical testing or clinical trials, changes in labeling of the product or the need for additional marketing applications; and · we and our collaborators will be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continuous regulatory review. If our products fail to receive marketing approval or lose previously received approvals, our financial results would be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents Even if our products obtain marketing approval, they might not be accepted in the marketplace. The commercial success of our products will depend upon their acceptance by the medical community and third party payors as clinically useful, cost effective and safe. If health care providers believe that patients can be managed adequately with alternative, currently available therapies, they may not prescribe our products, especially if the alternative therapies are viewed as more effective, as having a better safety or tolerability profile, as being more convenient to the patient or health care providers or as being less expensive. For pharmaceuticals administered in an institutional setting, the ability of the institution to be adequately reimbursed could also play a significant role in demand for our products. Even if our products obtain marketing approval, they may not achieve market acceptance. If any of our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will likely lose our entire investment in that product. Marketplace acceptance will depend in part on competition in our industry, which is intense. The extent to which any of our products achieves market acceptance will depend on competitive factors. Competition in our industry is intense, and it is accentuated by the rapid pace of technological development. There are products currently in the market that will compete with the products that we are developing, including AIDS drugs and chemotherapy drugs for treating cancer. As described below, Adolor Corporation is developing a drug that would compete with MNTX. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and experience and greater manufacturing, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we do. These competitors may develop products that are superior to those we are developing and render our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. If our product candidates receive marketing approval but cannot compete effectively in the marketplace, our operating results and financial position would suffer. One or more competitors developing an opioid antagonist may reach the market ahead of us and adversely affect the market potential for MNTX. We are aware that Adolor Corporation, in collaboration with Glaxo Group Limited, or Glaxo, a subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc, is developing an opioid antagonist, Entereg™ (alvimopan), for post-operative ileus, which has completed phase 3 clinical trials, and for opioid-induced bowel dysfunction, which is in phase 3 clinical trials Post-operative ileus is a condition similar to post-operative bowel dysfunction, a condition for which we are developing MNTX. Entereg is further along in the clinical development process than MNTX, and Adolor Corporation has received an approvable letter from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for Entereg regarding the treatment of post-operative ileus. Additionally, it has been reported that a European specialty pharmaceutical company is in clinical development of an oral formulation of methylnaltrexone for use in opioid-induced constipation. If either of these products reaches the market before MNTX, it could achieve a significant competitive advantage relative to our product. In any event, the considerable marketing and sales capabilities of Glaxo may impair our ability to penetrate the market. Under the terms of our collaboration with Wyeth with respect to MNTX, Wyeth will develop the oral form of MNTX worldwide. We will lead the U.S. development of the subcutaneous and intravenous forms of MNTX, while Wyeth will lead development of these parenteral products outside the U.S. Wyeth and we will pursue an integrated strategy to optimize worldwide development, regulatory approval, and commercial launch of the three MNTX products, which may impact timelines for the development of MNTX previously disclosed by us. Decisions regarding the timelines for development of the three MNTX products will be made by a Joint Development Committee formed under the terms of the license and co-development agreement, consisting of members from both Wyeth and Progenics. Disputes with Cytogen could delay or halt our PSMA programs. Our research and development programs relating to vaccine and antibody immunotherapeutics based on PSMA are conducted through PSMA LLC, a joint venture between Cytogen Corporation and us. This is a 50/50 joint venture, meaning that our ownership rights in the programs, funding obligations and governance rights are equal. As a result, for PSMA LLC to operate efficiently, and for the research and development programs to be adequately funded and staffed and productive, we and Cytogen must be in agreement on strategic and operational matters. There is a significant risk that, as a result of differing views and priorities, there will be occasions when we do not agree on various matters, as is the case currently. Our level of commitment to fund PSMA LLC and that of our joint venture partner, Cytogen, is based upon a budget and work plan that are developed and approved annually by the parties. We have in the past experienced delays in reaching agreement with Cytogen regarding annual budget issues and strategic and operational matters relating to PSMA LLC. PSMA LLC currently has no approved 2006 budget or work plan because we and Cytogen have not yet reached agreement with respect to a number of matters relating to PSMA LLC. If we do not reach an agreement regarding the 2006 budget and work plan, we would likely experience delays in advancing the PSMA programs and may need to dissolve PSMA LLC and abandon the PSMA programs being conducted by PSMA LLC. We may not reach an agreement with Cytogen on these matters. 24 Table of Contents If we are unable to negotiate collaborative agreements, our cash burn rate could increase and our rate of product development could decrease. Our business strategy includes as an element entering into collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to develop and commercialize our products and technologies. We recently entered into such a collaboration with Wyeth. However, we may not be successful in negotiating additional collaborative arrangements. If we do not enter into new collaborative arrangements, we would have to devote more of our resources to clinical product development and product-launch activities, and our cash burn rate would increase or we would need to take steps to reduce our rate of product development. If we do not remedy our failure to achieve milestones or satisfy conditions regarding some of our product candidates, we may not maintain our rights under our licenses relating to these product candidates. We are required to make substantial cash payments, achieve specified milestones and satisfy other conditions, including filing for and obtaining marketing approvals and introducing products, to maintain rights under our intellectual property licenses. We may not be able to maintain our rights under these licenses. Under our license agreements with Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research relating to GMK, we are required, among other things, to have filed for marketing approval for a drug by 2000 and to have commenced commercialization of the drug by 2002. . We have not achieved these and other milestones and are unlikely to achieve them soon. We are in a similar position with respect to our license agreement with Antigenics Inc. concerning QS-21TM, a component of GMK. If we can establish that our failure to achieve these milestones resulted from technical issues beyond our control or delays in clinical studies that could not have been reasonably avoided, we may be entitled to a revision of these milestone dates. Although we believe that we satisfy one or more of these conditions, we may become involved in disputes with our licensors as to our continued right to a license. In addition, at September 1, 2004 we became obligated under our license agreement with Columbia to pay Columbia $225,000. We have accrued this amount but, pending the outcome of discussions with Columbia regarding this payment and other matters relating to the license, we have not yet paid it. If we do not comply with our obligations under our license agreements, the licensors may terminate them. Termination of any of our licenses could result in our losing our rights to, and therefore being unable to commercialize, any related product. We have had discussions with Sloan-Kettering and Columbia to reach agreement on the revision of applicable milestone dates. We may not, however, reach agreement with these licensors in a manner favorable to us. We have limited manufacturing capabilities, which could adversely impact our ability to commercialize products. We have limited manufacturing capabilities, which may result in increased costs of production or delay product development or commercialization. In order to commercialize our product candidates successfully, we or our collaborators must be able to manufacture products in commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, at acceptable costs and in a timely manner. The manufacture of our product candidates can be complex, difficult to accomplish even in small quantities, difficult to scale-up for large-scale production and subject to delays, inefficiencies and low yields of quality products. The cost of manufacturing some of our products may make them prohibitively expensive. If adequate supplies of any of our product candidates or related materials are not available to us on a timely basis or at all, our clinical trials could be seriously delayed, since these materials are time-consuming to manufacture and cannot be readily obtained from third-party sources. We operate pilot-scale manufacturing facilities for the production of vaccines and recombinant proteins. We believe that, for these types of product candidates, these facilities will be sufficient to meet our initial needs for clinical trials. However, these facilities may be insufficient for late-stage clinical trials for these types of product candidates, and would be insufficient for commercial-scale manufacturing requirements. We may be required to expand further our manufacturing staff and facilities, obtain new facilities or contract with corporate collaborators or other third parties to assist with production. In the event that we decide to establish a commercial-scale manufacturing facility, we will require substantial additional funds and will be required to hire and train significant numbers of employees and comply with applicable regulations, which are extensive. We may not be able to build a manufacturing facility that both meets regulatory requirements and is sufficient for our clinical trials or commercial-scale manufacturing. We have entered into arrangements with third parties for the manufacture of some of our products. Our third-party sourcing strategy may not result in a cost-effective means for manufacturing products. In employing third-party manufacturers, we will not control many aspects of the manufacturing process, including compliance by these third parties with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices and other regulatory requirements. We may not be able to obtain adequate supplies from third-party manufacturers in a timely fashion for development or commercialization purposes, and commercial quantities of products may not be available from contract manufacturers at acceptable costs. 25 Table of Contents We are dependent on our patents and other intellectual property rights. The validity, enforceability and commercial value of these rights are highly uncertain. Our success is dependent in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing patent and other intellectual property rights. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical firms is highly uncertain and involves many complex legal and technical issues. There is no clear policy involving the breadth of claims allowed, or the degree of protection afforded, under patents in this area. Accordingly, the patent applications owned by or licensed to us may not result in patents being issued. We are aware of other groups that have patent applications or patents containing claims similar to or overlapping those in our patents and patent applications. We do not expect to know for several years the relative strength or scope of our patent position as compared to these other groups. Furthermore, patents that we own or license may not enable us to preclude competitors from commercializing drugs, and consequently may not provide us with any meaningful competitive advantage. We own or have licenses to several issued patents. However, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability. The validity or enforceability of a patent after its issuance by the patent office can be challenged in litigation. Our patents may be successfully challenged. Moreover, we may incur substantial costs in litigation to uphold the validity of patents or to prevent infringement. If the outcome of litigation is adverse to us, third parties may be able to use our patented invention without payment to us. Moreover, third parties may avoid our patents through design innovation. Most of our product candidates, including MNTX, PRO 140, GMK and our PSMA program products, incorporate to some degree intellectual property licensed from third parties. We can lose the right to patents and other intellectual property licensed to us if the related license agreement is terminated due to a breach by us or otherwise. Our ability, and that of our collaboration partners, to commercialize products incorporating licensed intellectual property would be impaired if the related license agreements were terminated. Generally, we have the right to defend and enforce patents licensed by us, either in the first instance or if the licensor chooses not to do so. In addition, our license agreement with the University of Chicago regarding MNTX gives us the right to prosecute and maintain the licensed patents. We bear the cost of engaging in some or all of these activities with respect to our license agreements with Sloan-Kettering for GMK and the University of Chicago for MNTX. Under our Collaboration Agreement, Wyeth has the right, at its expense, to defend and enforce the MNTX patents licensed to Wyeth by us. With most of our other license agreements, the licensor bears the cost of engaging in all of these activities, although we may share in those costs under specified circumstances. Historically, our costs of defending patent rights, both our own and those we license, have not been material. We also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. Third parties may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our technology or disclose our technology, and we may be unable to effectively protect our rights in unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. We require each of our employees, consultants and advisors to execute a confidentiality agreement at the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. However, these agreements may not provide effective protection in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information. If we infringe third-party patent or other intellectual property rights, we may need to alter or terminate a product development program. There may be patent or other intellectual property rights belonging to others that require us to alter our products, pay licensing fees or cease certain activities. If our products infringe patent or other intellectual property rights of others, the owners of those rights could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of the affected products. If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. We may not prevail in any action brought against us, and any license required under any rights that we infringe may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We are aware of intellectual property rights held by third parties that relate to products or technologies we are developing. For example, we are aware of other groups investigating methylnaltrexone and other peripheral opioid antagonists, PSMA or related compounds and CCR5 monoclonal antibodies and of patents held, and patent applications filed, by these groups in those areas. While the validity of these issued patents, patentability of these pending patent applications and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if asserted against us, any related patent or other intellectual property rights could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products. The research, development and commercialization of a biopharmaceutical often involve alternative development and optimization routes, which are presented at various stages in the development process. The preferred routes cannot be predicted at the outset of a research and development program because they will depend on subsequent discoveries and test results. There are numerous third-party patents in our field, and we may need to obtain a license to a patent in order to pursue the preferred development route of one or more of our products. The need to obtain a license would decrease the ultimate profitability of the applicable product. If we cannot negotiate a license, we might have to pursue a less desirable development route or terminate the program altogether. 26 Table of Contents We are dependent upon third parties for a variety of functions. These arrangements may not provide us with the benefits we expect. We rely in part on third parties to perform a variety of functions. We are party to numerous agreements which place substantial responsibility on clinical research organizations, consultants and other service providers for the development of our products. We also rely on medical and academic institutions to perform aspects of our clinical trials of product candidates. In addition, an element of our research and development strategy is to in-license technology and product candidates from academic and government institutions in order to minimize investments in early research. Furthermore, we recently entered into an agreement under which we will depend on Wyeth for the commercialization and development of MNTX, our lead product candidate. We may not be able to maintain any of these relationships or establish new ones on beneficial terms. Furthermore, we may not be able to enter new arrangements without undue delays or expenditures, and these arrangements may not allow us to compete successfully. We lack sales and marketing experience, which will make us dependent on third parties for their expertise in this area. We have no experience in sales, marketing or distribution. If we receive marketing approval, we expect to market and sell our products principally through distribution, co-marketing, co-promotion or licensing arrangements with third parties. We may also consider contracting with a third party professional pharmaceutical detailing and sales organization to perform the marketing function for our products. Under our license and co-development agreement with Wyeth, Wyeth is responsible for commercializing MNTX. To the extent that we enter into distribution, co-marketing, co-promotion, detailing or licensing arrangements for the marketing and sale of our other products, any revenues we receive will depend primarily on the efforts of third parties. We will not control the amount and timing of marketing resources these third parties devote to our products. In addition, if we market products directly, significant additional expenditures and management resources would be required to develop an internal sales force. We may not be able to establish a successful sales force should we choose to do so. If we lose key management and scientific personnel on whom we depend, our business could suffer. We are dependent upon our key management and scientific personnel. In particular, the loss of Dr. Paul J. Maddon, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Science Officer, could cause our management and operations to suffer. We have an employment agreement with Dr. Maddon, the initial term of which ran through June 30, 2005, which was automatically renewed for an additional period of two years. See “Item 11. Executive Compensation - Employment Agreements” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005. We are currently in discussions with Dr. Maddon regarding the future renewal of his employment agreement. Employment agreements do not, however, assure the continued employment of an employee. We maintain key-man life insurance on Dr. Maddon in the amount of $2.5 million. Competition for qualified employees among companies in the biopharmaceutical industry is intense. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. In order to commercialize our products successfully, we may be required to expand substantially our personnel, particularly in the areas of manufacturing, clinical trials management, regulatory affairs, business development and marketing. We may not be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of the raw and bulk materials needed to make our products, our product development and commercialization could be slowed or stopped. We currently obtain supplies of critical raw materials used in production of MNTX, GMK and other of our product candidates from single sources. In particular, we rely on single-source third-party manufacturers for the supply of both bulk and finished form MNTX. We have a supply agreement with Mallinckrodt Inc., our current supplier of bulk-form MNTX, which has an initial term that expires on January 1, 2008. In accordance with our collaboration agreement with Wyeth, we will transfer to Wyeth, at a mutually agreeable time, the responsibility for manufacturing MNTX for clinical and commercial use, including our supply agreements with third parties. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our other suppliers. In addition, commercialization of GMK requires an adjuvant, QS-21TM, available only from Antigenics Inc. Our existing arrangements may not result in the supply of sufficient quantities of our product candidates needed to accomplish our clinical development programs, and we may not have the right or capability to manufacture sufficient quantities of these products to meet our needs if our suppliers are unable or unwilling to do so. Any delay or disruption in the availability of raw materials would slow or stop product development and commercialization of the relevant product 27 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our funding comes from federal government grants and research contracts. We cannot rely on these grants or contracts as a continuing source of funds. A substantial portion of our revenues to date has been derived from federal government grants and research contracts. In July and September 2005, we were awarded a $3.0 million and a $10.1 million grant from the NIH to partially fund our hepatitis C virus and PRO 140 programs, respectively. Also, in 2004 we were awarded, in the aggregate, approximately $9.2 million in NIH grants and research contracts in addition to previous years’ awards. We cannot rely on grants or additional contracts as a continuing source of funds. Moreover, funds available under these grants and contracts must be applied by us toward the research and development programs specified by the government rather than for all our programs generally. For example, the $28.6 million contract awarded to us by the NIH in September 2003 must be used by us in furtherance of our efforts to develop an HIV vaccine. The government’s obligation to make payments under these grants and contracts is subject to appropriation by the U.S. Congress for funding in each year. Moreover, it is possible that Congress or the government agencies that administer these government research programs will decide to scale back these programs or terminate them due to their own budgetary constraints. Additionally, these grants and research contracts are subject to adjustment based upon the results of periodic audits performed on behalf of the granting authority. Consequently, the government may not award grants or research contracts to us in the future, and any amounts that we derive from existing grants or contracts may be less than those received to date. If health care reform measures are enacted, our operating results and our ability to commercialize products could be adversely affected. In recent years, there have been numerous proposals to change the health care system in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions. Some of these proposals have included measures that would limit or eliminate payments for medical procedures and treatments or subject the pricing of pharmaceuticals to government control. In some foreign countries, particularly countries of the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In addition, as a result of the trend towards managed health care in the U.S., as well as legislative proposals to reduce government insurance programs, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drug products. Consequently, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. If we or any of our collaborators succeed in bringing one or more of our products to market, third-party payors may establish and maintain price levels insufficient for us to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Significant changes in the health care system in the U.S. or elsewhere, including changes resulting from adverse trends in third-party reimbursement programs, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our ability to raise capital and commercialize products. We are exposed to product liability claims, and in the future we may not be able to obtain insurance against these claims at a reasonable cost or at all. Our business exposes us to product liability risks, which are inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products. We may not be able to avoid product liability exposure. If a product liability claim is successfully brought against us, our financial position may be adversely affected. Product liability insurance for the biopharmaceutical industry is generally expensive, when available at all. We have obtained product liability insurance in the amount of $5.0 million per occurrence, subject to a deductible and a $5.0 million annual aggregate limitation. In addition, where local statutory requirements exceed the limits of our existing insurance or where local policies of insurance are required, we maintain additional clinical trial liability insurance to meet these requirements. Our present insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover claims brought against us. In addition, some of our license and other agreements require us to obtain product liability insurance. Adequate insurance coverage may not be available to us at a reasonable cost in the future. We handle hazardous materials and must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. If we are involved in a hazardous waste spill or other accident, we could be liable for damages, penalties or other forms of censure. Our research and development work and manufacturing processes involve the use of hazardous, controlled and radioactive materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. Despite procedures that we implement for handling and disposing of these materials, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury. In the event of a hazardous waste spill or other accident, we could be liable for damages, penalties or other forms of censure. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future. 28 Table of Contents Our stock price has a history of volatility. You should consider an investment in our stock as risky and invest only if you can withstand a significant loss. Our stock price has a history of significant volatility. Between January 1, 2002 and December 31, 2005, our stock price has ranged from $3.82 to $27.00 per share. At times, our stock price has been volatile even in the absence of significant news or developments relating to us. Moreover, the stocks of biotechnology companies and the stock market generally have been subject to dramatic price swings in recent years. Factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock include: · the results of clinical trials and preclinical studies involving our products or those of our competitors; · changes in the status of any of our drug development programs, including delays in clinical trials or program terminations; · developments regarding our efforts to achieve marketing approval for our products; · developments in our relationship with Wyeth regarding the development and commercialization of MNTX; · announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us, our collaborators or our competitors; · developments in our relationships with other collaborative partners; · developments in patent or other proprietary rights; · governmental regulation; · changes in reimbursement policies or health care legislation; · public concern as to the safety and efficacy of products developed by us, our collaborators or our competitors; · our ability to fund on-going operations; · fluctuations in our operating results; and · general market conditions. Our principal stockholders are able to exert significant influence over matters submitted to stockholders for approval. At December 31, 2005, Dr. Maddon and stockholders affiliated with Tudor Investment Corporation together beneficially own or control approximately 19% of our outstanding shares of common stock. These persons, should they choose to act together, could exert significant influence in determining the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval and otherwise control our business. This control could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us and, consequently, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions may make the removal of our Board of Directors or management more difficult and discourage hostile bids for control of our company that may be beneficial to our stockholders. Our Board of Directors is authorized, without further stockholder action, to issue from time to time shares of preferred stock in one or more designated series or classes. The issuance of preferred stock, as well as provisions in certain of our stock options that provide for acceleration of exercisability upon a change of control, and Section 203 and other provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law could: · make the takeover of Progenics or the removal of our Board of Directors or management more difficult; · discourage hostile bids for control of Progenics in which stockholders may receive a premium for their shares of common stock; and · otherwise dilute the rights of holders of our common stock and depress the market price of our common stock. 29 Table of Contents If there are substantial sales of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline. Sales of substantial numbers of shares of common stock could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. We require substantial external funding to finance our research and development programs and may seek such funding through the issuance and sale of our common stock. We have announced that we have filed shelf registration statements to permit the sale of up to 4.0 million shares of our common stock to investors and to permit the public reoffer and sale from time to time of up to 286,000 shares of our common stock by certain stockholders. Sales of our common stock pursuant to these registration statements could cause the market price or our stock to decline. In addition, some of our other stockholders are entitled to require us to register their shares of common stock for offer or sale to the public. Also, we have filed Form S-8 registration statements registering shares issuable pursuant to our equity compensation plans. Any sales by existing stockholders or holders of options may have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There were no unresolved Staff comments as of December 31, 2005. Item 