Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and operations entail a variety of serious risks and uncertainties, including those described below. Our business is inherently risky. We are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of product candidates based on new technologies. We must complete successfully clinical trials and obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates as well as additional formulations of and indications for RELISTOR. In the Japanese market, we must rely on Ono to conduct successful clinical trials and obtain regulatory approvals. Our other research and development programs, including those related to PSMA and PRO 140, involve novel approaches to human therapeutics. There is little precedent for the successful commercialization of products based on our technologies, and there are a number of technological challenges that we must overcome to complete most of our development efforts. We may not be able successfully to develop further any of our products. In addition to the risks we face in our research and development activities, and our business as a publicly held commercial enterprise devoted to developing and commercializing high-technology consumer products, the reacquisition of our rights to RELISTOR presents us with substantial new risks, including the following: The return of our rights to RELISTOR presents us with substantial new risks. For example, if we are unable to establish satisfactory relationships with one or more partners to develop and commercialize RELISTOR worldwide, we would need to make significant investment to establish a sales and marketing infrastructure and related staff, and in the meantime may be dependent on third parties for their expertise in this area. As a result of the termination of the Wyeth collaboration, we continue to face all of the risks to which we are currently subject as well as the additional risks attendant to establishing new collaborative or other relationships with one or more partners to develop and commercialize RELISTOR. If we are unable to do so, we will also face substantial risk in having sole responsibility for developing and commercializing a regulated pharmaceutical product. Even with a partner, significant investment, time and managerial resources may be required to build a commercial infrastructure to co-promote, co-market or otherwise market, sell and support a pharmaceutical product. To the extent not funded from outside sources -- and in any case prior to securing any such funding -- these efforts will increase our cash requirements and result in a higher cash burn rate, which will have a material adverse effect on our financial resources and operational results. If, after the end of Wyeth’s involvement with the product, we undertake development and commercialization of RELISTOR without one or more partners, the financial and managerial resources necessary to transition to a commercial organization would require us to divert resources from our development efforts, including those for oral RELISTOR and our product candidates, to commercial ones. Even if we establish relationships with one or more partners for these tasks, we may have to divert resources from these programs to the extent we do not fund commercial activities in full from those external sources. Should we choose to commercialize RELISTOR directly, even in part of the world, we may not be successful in developing an effective sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure or in achieving sufficient market acceptance. Alternatively, we may also consider contracting with a third party professional pharmaceutical detailing and sales organization to perform all or certain marketing functions. To the extent we enter into distribution, co-marketing, co-promotion, detailing or licensing arrangements for our products, any revenues we receive will depend in substantial part or primarily on the efforts of third parties. We may not be able to control the amount and timing of marketing resources these third parties devote to our products. We are dependent on Wyeth, Ono and other business partners to develop and commercialize RELISTOR in their respective areas, exposing us to significant risks. As a result of termination of our collaboration, Wyeth has a limited ongoing commercial interest in RELISTOR during the transition. We are and will be dependent upon Wyeth (during the transition of its responsibilities to us pursuant to the Transition Agreement), Ono and any other business partner(s) with which we may collaborate in the future to perform and fund development, including clinical testing of RELISTOR, make related regulatory filings and manufacture and market products in their respective territories. Revenues from the sale of RELISTOR currently depend almost entirely upon the efforts of Wyeth, which during the transition has significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources it applies to sales of RELISTOR. Ono will have similar discretion with respect to sales in Japan. Neither may be effective in marketing such products, and these considerations may apply to other business partners. Our business relationships with Wyeth, Ono and other partners may not be scientifically, clinically or commercially successful. 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS As a result of termination of our relationship with Wyeth, we are seeking alternative arrangements with one or more other parties to develop and commercialize RELISTOR. We might also seek alternative arrangements if our relationship with Ono were to terminate. We may not be able to enter into such arrangements with other suitable companies on acceptable terms or at all, in which event we would have to develop sales and marketing organization and a distribution infrastructure, neither of which we currently have, in order to continue to develop and commercialize RELISTOR on our own. Developing these resources would be an expensive and lengthy process and will have a material adverse effect on our financial resources and profitability. Termination of our relationship with Wyeth may also seriously compromise the development program for RELISTOR and possibly our other product candidates, as we may experience significant delays and may have to assume full funding and other responsibility for development and commercialization. Any of these outcomes would result in delays in our ability to distribute RELISTOR and would increase our expenses. Wyeth’s development and commercialization obligations during the transition period are limited by the Transition Agreement and are less extensive than its obligations under the 2005 collaboration. The acquisition of Wyeth by Pfizer has resulted in management and personnel changes, and by returning our RELISTOR rights, Wyeth has a limited ongoing commercial interest in the RELISTOR franchise. We cannot guarantee that Wyeth’s efforts during the transition will achieve any particular level of success in marketing and sale, regulatory approval or clinical development of RELISTOR. We have had and may have future disagreements with Wyeth and Ono concerning product development, marketing strategies, manufacturing and supply issues, and rights relating to intellectual property. Both of them have significantly greater financial and managerial resources than we do, which either could draw upon in the event of a dispute. Disagreements between either of them and us could lead to lengthy and expensive litigation or other dispute-resolution proceedings as well as to extensive financial and operational consequences to us, and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. These considerations may apply to other business partners with which we may collaborate in the future. We are subject to extensive regulation, which can be costly and time consuming and can subject us to unanticipated fines and delays. We and our products are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and comparable authorities in other countries. These agencies and other entities regulate the pre-clinical and clinical testing, safety, effectiveness, approval, manufacture, labeling, marketing, export, storage, recordkeeping, advertising, promotion and other aspects of our products. If we violate regulatory requirements at any stage, whether before or after marketing approval is obtained, we may be subject to forced removal of a product from the market, product seizure, civil and criminal penalties and other adverse consequences. We cannot guarantee that approvals of proposed products, processes or facilities will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. If we experience delays or failures in obtaining approvals, commercialization of our product candidates will be slowed or stopped. Even if we obtain regulatory approval, the approval may include significant limitations on indicated uses for which the product could be marketed or other significant marketing restrictions. As a result of termination of the Wyeth collaboration, we will be responsible for complying with these regulations and will be required to develop an appropriate infrastructure to do so, to the extent we are unable to have such tasks performed by one or more business partners. If we are unable to negotiate collaborative agreements, or if such arrangements are delayed or are relatively unfavorable to us, our cash burn rate will increase and our rate of product development could decrease. We are pursuing significant collaborations, strategic partnerships or other arrangements to continue worldwide development and commercialization of RELISTOR following expiration of the transition period. Our overall business strategy includes entering into collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to develop and commercialize product candidates and technologies. We may not be successful in negotiating such arrangements at all, in optimal time frames or on favorable terms. In particular, if we do not enter into new collaborative arrangements for RELISTOR on satisfactory terms and within the timeframes established by the Transition Agreement -- and in any case prior to entering into any such arrangements -- we will have to devote more of our resources to clinical product development and product-launch activities, and our cash burn rate will increase. In that event, we will need to take steps to reduce our rate of product development for other programs, and may also have to seek additional sources of capital. If we are not successful in negotiating satisfactory new arrangements with respect to the RELISTOR franchise, these challenges will be substantial. We cannot assure you that any currently-contemplated or future collaboration or other initiatives for funding our product candidate programs will be successfully concluded. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS We lack sales and marketing infrastructure and related staff, which will require significant investment to establish and in the meantime may make us dependent on third parties for their expertise in this area. We have no established sales, marketing or distribution infrastructure. Significant investment, time and managerial resources are required to build the commercial infrastructure required to market, sell and support a pharmaceutical product. Should we choose to commercialize RELISTOR or another product directly, we may not be successful in developing an effective commercial infrastructure or in achieving sufficient market acceptance. Alternatively, we may choose to market and sell our products through distribution, co-marketing, co-promotion or licensing arrangements with third parties. We may also consider contracting with third party professional pharmaceutical detailing and sales organizations to perform the marketing function for our products. To the extent that we enter into such arrangements, any revenues we receive will depend on the efforts of third parties. We may not control the amount and timing of marketing resources these third parties devote to our products. Our products may face regulatory, legal or commercial challenges even after approval. Even if our products receive regulatory approval: · They might not obtain labeling claims necessary to make the product commercially viable (in general, labeling claims define the medical conditions for which a drug product may be marketed, and are therefore very important to the commercial success of a product), or may be required to carry “black box” or other warnings that adversely affect their commercial success. · Approval may be limited to uses of the product for treatment or prevention of diseases or conditions that are relatively less financially advantageous to us than approval of greater or different scope, or subject to an FDA-imposed Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) that limits the sources from and conditions under which they may be dispensed. · We or our collaborators might be required to undertake post-marketing trials to verify the product’s efficacy or safety. · We, our collaborators or others might identify side effects after the product is on the market. · Efficacy or safety concerns regarding marketed products may lead to product recalls, withdrawals of marketing approval, reformulation of the product, additional pre- clinical testing or clinical trials, changes in labeling of the product, the need for additional marketing applications, declining sales or other adverse events. For example, in early 2009 the FDA identified a potential RELISTOR safety issue involving gastrointestinal perforation. The agency is continuing to evaluate to determine the need for any regulatory action; the appearance of a drug on this FDA list does not mean that the agency has concluded that the drug has such a risk. These potential consequences may occur whether or not the concerns originate from subsequent testing or other activities by us, governmental regulators, other entities or organizations or otherwise, and whether or not they are scientifically justified. · We or our collaborators might experience manufacturing problems, which could have the same, similar or other consequences. · We and our collaborators will be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continuous regulatory review. · If products lose previously received marketing and other approvals, our financial results would be adversely affected. Competing products in development may adversely affect acceptance of our products. We are aware of the following competition and potential competition to RELISTOR: · An Adolor Corporation-GlaxoSmithKline PLC collaboration received FDA approval in 2008 for ENTEREG® (alvimopan), an oral opioid antagonist for postoperative ileus indicated “to accelerate the time to upper and lower gastrointestinal recovery following partial large or small bowel resection surgery with primary anastomosis.” Adolor is also re-evaluating an entry-stage compound for OIC in chronic-pain patients. · A Sucampo Pharmaceuticals, Inc.-Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited collaboration, markets AMITIZA® (lubiprostone) for chronic idiopathic constipation and recently completed two phase 3 pivotal clinical trials of this drug for opioid-induced bowel dysfunction. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS · In Europe, Mundipharma International Limited markets TARGIN® (oxycodone/naloxone), a combination of an opioid and a systemic opioid antagonist. · A Nektar Therapeutics-AstraZeneca PLC collaboration recently announced phase 2 results of an oral peripheral mu-opioid receptor antagonist in patients with OIC, and is developing a related combination product. AstraZeneca is a leader in gastrointestinal medicine, and their collaboration may have a time-to-market advantage over us with respect to an oral therapy for OIC in chronic-pain patients. · Alkermes, Inc. recently completed phase 1 clinical testing of an oral peripherally-restricted opioid antagonist, and has a combination product in preclinical testing. · Theravance, Inc. recently completed phase 1 clinical testing of and oral peripheral mu-opioid antagonist. Any of these approved products or product candidates may achieve a significant competitive advantage relative to our product. In any event, the existing or future marketing and sales capabilities of these competitors may impair our ability to compete effectively in the market. Radiation and surgery are two principal traditional forms of treatment for prostate cancer, to which our PSMA-based development efforts are directed. If the disease spreads, hormone (androgen) suppression therapy is often used to slow the cancer’s progression. This form of treatment, however, can eventually become ineffective. We are aware of several competitors who are developing alternative treatments for castrate-resistant prostate cancer, some of which are directed against PSMA. In the case of PRO 140, currently-approved drugs for the treatment of HIV infection and AIDS have shown efficacy alone and in conjunction with other agents, the latter of which we have not demonstrated for PRO 140. We are aware of two approved drugs, Trimeris’ FUZEON® and Pfizer’s SELZENTRY®, designed to treat HIV infection by blocking viral entry. We are also aware of various HCV drugs in pre-clinical or clinical development. Both our immediate need to transition RELISTOR and our long-term strategy with respect to RELISTOR and our other product candidates may require us to obtain additional financing. Our access to capital funding is uncertain. As of December 31, 2009, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, including non-current portion, totaling $96.2 million. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we had a net loss of $30.6 million and cash used in operating activities was $49.8 million. Additional expenses we incur in future development and commercialization of RELISTOR will result in accelerating diminution of our cash and growth of our losses to the extent those expenses are not funded from outside sources. By reacquiring the rights to RELISTOR from Wyeth, we have become responsible for the future development and commercialization of the currently-marketed drug after the transition and for new formulations. We do not have committed external sources of funding for these responsibilities, and are seeking additional external funding through collaborative, license or other agreements with one or more pharmaceutical companies. To the extent we are not successful in these efforts, we will have to fund them from cash on hand. With regard to both RELISTOR and our other product candidates, we expect to continue to incur significant development expenditures. We cannot predict when we will need additional funds, how much we will need, the form any financing may take (such as securities issuance or royalty or other financing), or whether additional funds will be available at all, especially in light of current conditions in global credit and financial markets. Our need for future funding will depend on numerous factors, such as the availability of new product development projects or other opportunities which we cannot predict, and many of which are outside our control. In particular, we cannot assure you that any currently-contemplated or future initiatives for funding our product candidate programs will be successful. Our access to capital funding is always uncertain. Stresses in international markets are still affecting access to capital. We may not be able at the necessary time to obtain additional funding on acceptable terms, or at all. Our inability to raise additional capital on terms reasonably acceptable to us would seriously jeopardize our business. If we raise funds by issuing and selling securities, it may be on terms that are not favorable to existing stockholders. If we raise funds by selling equity securities, current stockholders will be diluted, and new investors could have rights superior to existing stockholders. Raising funds by selling debt securities often entails significant restrictive covenants and repayment obligations. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS If testing does not yield successful results, our products will not be approved. Regulatory approvals are necessary before product candidates can be marketed. To obtain them, we or our collaborators must demonstrate a product’s safety and efficacy through extensive pre-clinical and clinical testing. Numerous adverse events may arise during, or as a result of, the testing process, such as: · results of pre-clinical studies being inconclusive or not indicative of results in human clinical trials; · potential products not having the desired efficacy or having undesirable side effects or other characteristics that preclude marketing approval or limit their commercial use if approved; · after reviewing test results, we or our collaborators may abandon projects which we previously believed to be promising; and · we, our collaborators or regulators may suspend or terminate clinical trials if we or they believe that the participating subjects are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. Clinical testing is very expensive and can take many years. Results attained in early human clinical trials may not be indicative of results in later clinical trials. In addition, many of our investigational or experimental drugs, such as PRO 140 and the PSMA product candidates, are at an early stage of development, and successful commercialization of early stage product candidates requires significant research, development, testing and approvals by regulators, and additional investment. Our products in the research or pre-clinical development stage may not yield results that would permit or justify clinical testing. Our failure to demonstrate adequately the safety and efficacy of a product under development would delay or prevent marketing approval, which could adversely affect our operating results and credibility. A setback in clinical development programs could adversely affect us. We and Wyeth continue to conduct clinical trials of RELISTOR. If the results of these or future trials are not satisfactory, we encounter problems enrolling subjects, clinical trial supply issues or other difficulties arise, or we experience setbacks in developing drug formulations, including raw material-supply, manufacturing or stability difficulties, our entire RELISTOR development program could be adversely affected, resulting in delays in trials or regulatory filings for further marketing approval. Conducting additional clinical trials or making significant revisions to our clinical development plan would lead to delays in regulatory filings. If clinical trials indicate a serious problem with the safety or efficacy of a RELISTOR product, we, Wyeth, Ono or another partner may stop development or commercialization of affected products. Since RELISTOR is our only approved product, any setback of these types could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Ono is conducting required clinical trials with Japanese patients to obtain regulatory approval of RELISTOR in Japan. There can be no assurance that these clinical trials will yield results adequate for that regulatory approval. We are conducting clinical trials of PRO 140, PSMA ADC and prostate cancer vaccine candidates. If the results of these or future clinical studies of our candidates are not satisfactory, we would need to reconfigure our clinical trial programs to conduct additional trials or abandon the program involved. Because our vaccine product candidates may be deemed to involve gene therapy, a relatively new technology that has not been extensively tested in humans, regulatory requirements applicable to them may be unclear, or subject to substantial regulatory review that delays the development and approval process generally. Our clinical trials could take longer than we expect. Projections that we publicly announce of commencement and duration of clinical trials may not be certain. For example, we have experienced clinical trial delays in the past as a result of slower than anticipated enrollment. These delays may recur. Delays can be caused by, among other things: · deaths or other adverse medical events involving subjects in our clinical trials; · regulatory or patent issues; · interim or final results of ongoing clinical trials; 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS · failure to enroll clinical sites as expected; · competition for enrollment from clinical trials conducted by others in similar indications; · scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions; · disagreements, disputes or other matters arising from collaborations; · our inability to obtain additional funding when needed; and · manufacturing problems. We have limited experience in conducting clinical trials, and we rely on others to conduct, supervise or monitor some or all aspects of some of our clinical trials. In addition, certain clinical trials for our product candidates may be conducted by government-sponsored agencies, and consequently will be dependent on governmental participation and funding. Under our 2005 collaboration agreement with Wyeth, Wyeth had the responsibility to conduct some of the clinical trials, including all trials outside of the United States other than Japan, where Ono has the responsibility for clinical trials. Upon completion of the transition, we will have responsibility for these trials, or will contract with other parties to conduct them. We have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted them entirely on our own. Our product candidates may not obtain regulatory approvals needed for marketing. None of our product candidates other than RELISTOR has been approved by applicable regulatory authorities for marketing. The process of obtaining FDA and foreign regulatory approvals often takes many years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. We have had only limited experience in filing and pursuing applications and other submissions necessary to gain marketing approvals. Products under development may never obtain marketing approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities necessary for commercialization. Even if our products obtain marketing approval, they might not be accepted in the marketplace. The commercial success of our products will depend upon their acceptance by the medical community and third party payors as clinically useful, cost effective and safe. If health care providers believe that patients can be managed adequately with alternative, currently available therapies, they may not prescribe our products, especially if the alternative therapies are viewed as more effective, as having a better safety or tolerability profile, as being more convenient to the patient or health care providers or as being less expensive. For pharmaceuticals administered in an institutional setting, the ability of the institution to be adequately reimbursed could also play a significant role in demand for our products. Even if our products obtain marketing approval, they may not achieve market acceptance. If any of our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will likely lose our entire investment in that product. Marketplace acceptance will depend in part on competition in our industry, which is intense. The extent to which any of our products achieves market acceptance will depend on competitive factors. Competition in our industry is intense, and it is accentuated by the rapid pace of technological development. There are currently marketed products that will compete with the product candidates that we are developing, including AIDS drugs and chemotherapy drugs for treating cancer. There are also product candidates in pre-clinical or clinical development that target the side effects of opioid pain therapy, and a marketed product for the treatment of post-operative ileus, could compete with RELISTOR. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and experience and greater manufacturing, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we do. These competitors may develop products that are superior to those we are developing and render our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. If our product candidates receive marketing approval but cannot compete effectively in the marketplace, our operating results and financial position would suffer. Competition with respect to our technologies and products is based on, among other things, (i) product efficacy, safety, reliability, method of administration, availability, price and clinical benefit relative to cost; (ii) timing and scope of regulatory approval; (iii) sales, marketing and manufacturing capabilities; (iv) collaborator capabilities; (v) insurance and other reimbursement coverage; and (vi) patent protection. Competitive disadvantages in any of these factors could materially harm our business and financial condition. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of the raw and bulk materials needed to make our products, our product development and commercialization could be slowed or stopped. Wyeth, during the transition, and thereafter we and/or any partner(s) may not be able to fulfill manufacturing obligations for RELISTOR, either on our own or through third-party suppliers. Our existing arrangements with suppliers for our other product candidates may not result in the supply of sufficient quantities of our product candidates needed to accomplish our clinical development programs, and we may not have the right or capability to manufacture sufficient quantities of these products to meet our needs if our suppliers are unable or unwilling to do so. We currently obtain supplies of critical raw materials used in production of our product candidates from single sources. We do not have long-term contracts with any of these suppliers. Any delay or disruption in the availability of raw materials would slow or stop product development and commercialization of the relevant product. A delay or disruption of supplies of RELISTOR would have a material adverse effect on the RELISTOR franchise, and therefore on our business as a whole. We have limited manufacturing capabilities, which could adversely affect our ability to commercialize products. Under the Transition Agreement with Wyeth, we will be responsible for obtaining supplies of RELISTOR after the end of Wyeth’s transition obligations, which include supplying us and our collaboration partner(s) with finished subcutaneous drug product and API remaining in Wyeth’s inventories. Going forward, we expect we or collaboration partner(s) or licensee(s) will extend current relationships or contract with one or more other CMOs for supply of RELISTOR API and subcutaneous and oral finished drug product. These arrangements may not be on optimally-advantageous terms, and will subject us to risks that the counterparties may not perform optimally in terms of quality or reliability. With respect to our other product candidates, our limited manufacturing capabilities may result in increased costs of production or delay product development or commercialization. In order to commercialize our product candidates successfully, we or our collaborators would need to be able to manufacture products in commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, at acceptable costs and in a timely manner. Manufacture of our product candidates can be complex, difficult to accomplish even in small quantities, difficult to scale-up for large-scale production and subject to delays, inefficiencies and low yields of quality products. The cost of manufacturing some of our products may make them prohibitively expensive. If adequate supplies of any of our product candidates or related materials are not available to us on a timely basis or at all, our clinical trials could be seriously delayed, since these materials are time consuming to manufacture and cannot be readily obtained from third-party sources. We operate pilot-scale manufacturing facilities for the production of vaccines and recombinant proteins. These facilities will not be sufficient for late-stage clinical trials for these types of product candidates or commercial-scale manufacturing. We may be required to expand further our manufacturing staff and facilities, obtain new facilities or contract with corporate collaborators or other third parties to assist with production. In the event that we decide to establish a commercial-scale manufacturing facility for products that may be approved in the future, we will require substantial additional funds and will be required to hire and train significant numbers of employees and comply with applicable regulations, which are extensive. We may not be able to build a manufacturing facility that both meets regulatory requirements and is sufficient for our clinical trials or commercial scale manufacturing. We have entered into arrangements with third parties for the manufacture of some of our product candidates and, in some cases, new means of administration for these product candidates. Our third-party sourcing strategy may not result in a cost-effective means for manufacturing products. In employing third-party manufacturers, we do not control many aspects of the manufacturing process, including compliance with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices and other regulatory requirements. We may not be able to obtain adequate supplies from third-party manufacturers in a timely fashion for development or commercialization purposes, and commercial quantities of products may not be available from contract manufacturers at acceptable costs. We are dependent on our patents and other intellectual property rights. The validity, enforceability and commercial value of these rights are highly uncertain. Our success is dependent in part upon obtaining, maintaining and enforcing patent and other intellectual property rights. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical firms is highly uncertain and involves many complex legal and technical issues. There is no clear policy involving the breadth of claims allowed, or the degree of protection afforded, under patents in this area. Accordingly, patent applications owned by or licensed to us may not result in patents being issued. We are aware of others who have patent applications or patents containing claims similar to or overlapping those in our patents and patent applications. We do not expect to know for several years the relative strength or scope of our patent position. Patents that we own or license may not enable us to preclude competitors from commercializing drugs, and consequently may not provide us with any meaningful competitive advantage. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS We own or have licenses to several issued patents. The issuance of a patent, however, is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability, which can be challenged in litigation. Our patents may be successfully challenged. We may incur substantial costs in litigation seeking to uphold the validity of patents or to prevent infringement. If the outcome of litigation is adverse to us, third parties may be able to use our patented invention without payment to us. Third parties may also avoid our patents through design innovation. Most of our product candidates, including RELISTOR, PRO 140 and our PSMA and HCV program candidates, incorporate to some degree intellectual property licensed from third parties. We can lose the right to patents and other intellectual property licensed to us if the related license agreement is terminated due to a breach by us or otherwise. Our ability, and that of our collaboration partners, to commercialize products incorporating licensed intellectual property would be impaired if the related license agreements were terminated. The license agreements from which we derive or out-license intellectual property provide for various royalty, milestone and other payment, commercialization, sublicensing, patent prosecution and enforcement, insurance, indemnification and other obligations and rights, and are subject to certain reservations of rights. While we generally have the right to defend and enforce patents licensed by us, either in the first instance or if the licensor chooses not to do so, we must usually bear the cost of doing so. As a result of the Transition Agreement, we will be required to defend and enforce our RELISTOR patents, an obligation that Wyeth undertook in the 2005 collaboration agreement. With respect to Japan, Ono has certain limited rights to prosecute, maintain and enforce relevant intellectual property. With most of our in-licenses, the licensor bears the cost of engaging in all of these activities, although we may share in those costs under specified circumstances. We also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. Third parties may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our technology or disclose our technology, and we may be unable to effectively protect our rights in unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. We require each of our employees, consultants and advisors to execute a confidentiality agreement at the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. These agreements may, however, not provide effective protection in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information. If we do not achieve milestones or satisfy conditions regarding some of our product candidates, we may not maintain our rights under related licenses. We are required to make substantial cash payments, achieve milestones and satisfy other conditions, including filing for and obtaining marketing approvals and introducing products, to maintain rights under our intellectual property licenses. Due to the nature of these agreements and the uncertainties of research and development, we may not be able to achieve milestones or satisfy conditions to which we have contractually committed, and as a result may be unable to maintain our rights under these licenses. If we do not comply with our license agreements, the licensors may terminate them, which could result in our losing our rights to, and therefore being unable to commercialize, related products. If we infringe third-party patent or other intellectual property rights, we may need to alter or terminate a product development program. There may be patent or other intellectual property rights belonging to others that require us to alter our products, pay licensing fees or cease certain activities. If our products infringe patent or other intellectual property rights of others, the owners of those rights could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of the affected products. If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. We may not prevail in any action brought against us, and any license required under any rights that we infringe may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We are aware of intellectual property rights held by third parties that relate to products or technologies we are developing. For example, we are aware of other groups investigating methylnaltrexone and other peripheral opioid antagonists, PSMA or related compounds and CCR5 monoclonal antibodies and of patents held, and patent applications filed, by these groups in those areas. While the validity of these issued patents, patentability of these pending patent applications and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if asserted against us, any related patent or other intellectual property rights could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products. The research, development and commercialization of a biopharmaceutical often involve alternative development and optimization routes, which are presented at various stages in the development process. The preferred routes cannot be predicted at the outset of a research and development program because they will depend on subsequent discoveries and test results. There are numerous third-party patents in our field, and we may need to obtain a license under a patent in order to pursue the preferred development route of one or more of our products. The need to obtain a license would decrease the ultimate profitability of the applicable product. If we cannot negotiate a license, we might have to pursue a less desirable development route or terminate the program altogether. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are dependent upon third parties for a variety of functions. These arrangements may not provide us with the benefits we expect. We rely in part on third parties to perform a variety of functions. We are party to numerous agreements which place substantial responsibility on clinical research organizations, consultants and other service providers for the development of our products. We also rely on medical and academic institutions to perform aspects of our clinical trials of product candidates. In addition, an element of our research and development strategy is to in-license technology and product candidates from academic and government institutions in order to minimize investments in early research. We have entered into agreements under which we have depended on Wyeth and Ono, respectively, for the commercialization and development of RELISTOR. We may not be able to replace the benefits to us of the Wyeth agreement on attractive terms. We may not be able to maintain our relationships with Ono or new partners, or establish new ones on beneficial terms. We may not be able to enter new arrangements without undue delays or expenditures, and these arrangements may not allow us to compete successfully. We are exposed to product liability claims, and in the future may not be able to obtain insurance against claims at a reasonable cost or at all. This exposure may increase with our reacquisition of the rights to RELISTOR to the extent we are not indemnified by a new partner. Our business exposes us to product liability risks, which are inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products. We may not be able to avoid product liability exposure. If a product liability claim is successfully brought against us, our financial position may be adversely affected. Pursuant to the Transition Agreement, we will assume responsibility for product liability risks arising from marketing and sales of RELISTOR, which Wyeth had borne under our 2005 collaboration. Product liability insurance for the biopharmaceutical industry is generally expensive, when available at all. We have obtained product liability insurance in the amount of $10.0 million per occurrence, subject to a deductible and a $10.0 million annual aggregate limitation. Where local statutory requirements exceed the limits of our existing insurance or where local policies of insurance are required, we maintain additional clinical trial liability insurance to meet these requirements. Our current insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover claims brought against us. Some of our license and other agreements require us to obtain product liability insurance. Adequate insurance coverage may not be available to us at a reasonable cost in the future. We handle hazardous materials and must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. If we are involved in a hazardous waste spill or other accident, we could be liable for damages, penalties or other forms of censure. Our research and development work and manufacturing processes involve the use of hazardous, controlled and radioactive materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. Despite procedures that we implement for handling and disposing of these materials, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury. In the event of a hazardous waste spill or other accident, we could be liable for damages, penalties or other forms of censure. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future. If we lose key management and scientific personnel on whom we depend, our business could suffer. We are dependent upon our key management and scientific personnel. In particular, the loss of Dr. Maddon could cause our management and operations to suffer. Our employment agreement with Dr. Maddon is effective on a year-to-year basis, subject to automatic renewal unless either party terminates. Employment agreements do not assure the continued employment of an employee. We maintain key-man life insurance on Dr. Maddon which is not necessarily related to his value to the Company at any given time. Competition for qualified employees among companies in the biopharmaceutical industry is intense. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. In order to commercialize our products successfully, we may be required to expand substantially our personnel, particularly in the areas of manufacturing, clinical trials management, regulatory affairs, business development and marketing. We may not be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS If health care reform measures are enacted, our operating results and our ability to commercialize products could be adversely affected. In recent years, there have been numerous proposals to change the health care system in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions. Some of these proposals have included measures that would change the nature of and regulatory requirements relating to drug discovery, clinical testing and regulatory approvals, limit or eliminate payments for medical procedures and treatments, or subject the pricing of pharmaceuticals to government control. Outside the U.S., and particularly in the E.U., the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In addition, as a result of the trend towards managed health care in the U.S., as well as legislative proposals to reduce government insurance programs, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drug products. Consequently, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. If we or any of our collaborators succeed in bringing one or more of our products to market, third party payors may establish and maintain price levels insufficient for us to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Significant changes in the health care system in the U.S. or elsewhere, including changes resulting from adverse trends in third-party reimbursement programs, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our ability to raise capital and commercialize products. A substantial portion of our funding has come from federal government grants and research contracts. We cannot rely on these grants or contracts as a continuing source of funds. A substantial portion of our revenues to date, albeit decreasing since 2006, has been derived from federal government grants and research contracts. During the last three years, we generated revenues from awards made to us by the NIH between 2003 and 2009, to partially fund some of our programs. We cannot rely on grants or additional contracts as a continuing source of funds. Funds available under these grants and contracts must be applied by us toward the research and development programs specified by the government rather than for all our programs generally. The government’s obligation to make payments under these grants and contracts is subject to appropriation by the U.S. Congress for funding in each year. It is possible that Congress or the government agencies that administer these government research programs will decide to scale back these programs or terminate them due to their own budgetary constraints. Additionally, these grants and research contracts are subject to adjustment based upon the results of periodic audits performed on behalf of the granting authority. Consequently, the government may not award grants or research contracts to us in the future, and any amounts that we derive from existing awards may be less than those received to date. In those circumstances, we would need to provide funding on our own, obtain other funding, or scale back the affected program. In particular, we cannot assure you that any currently-contemplated or future efforts to obtain funding for our product candidate programs through government grants or contracts will be successful, or that any such arrangements which we do conclude will supply us with sufficient funds to complete our development programs without providing additional funding on our own or obtaining other funding. We have a history of operating losses, and we may never be profitable. We have incurred substantial losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $329.3 million. We have derived no significant revenues from product sales or royalties. We may not achieve significant product sales or royalty revenue for a number of years, if ever. We expect to continue to incur operating losses in the future, which could increase significantly if we attempt to develop and commercialize RELISTOR without adequate collaboration and/or financial arrangements and, at the same time, expand our clinical trial programs and other product development efforts. Our ability to achieve and sustain profitability is dependent in part on obtaining regulatory approval for and then commercializing our products, either alone or with others. We may not be able to develop and commercialize products beyond subcutaneous RELISTOR. Our operations may not be profitable even if any of our other products under development are commercialized. Additional expenses we incur in future development and commercialization of RELISTOR may cause our losses to grow and to accelerate. Our stock price has a history of volatility. You should consider an investment in our stock as risky and invest only if you can withstand a significant loss. Our stock price has a history of significant volatility. Between January 1, 2007 and December 31, 2009, our stock price has ranged from $30.31 to $3.53 per share. Between January 1, 2010 and March 5, 2010, it has ranged from $4.99 to $4.16 per share. Historically, our stock price has fluctuated through an even greater range. At times, our stock price has been volatile even in the absence of significant news or developments relating to us. The stock prices of biotechnology companies and the stock market generally have been subject to dramatic price swings in recent years, and financial and market conditions in the past two years have resulted in widespread pressures on securities of issuers throughout the world economy. Factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock include: 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS · the results of clinical trials and pre-clinical studies involving our products or those of our competitors; · changes in the status of any of our drug development programs, including delays in clinical trials or program terminations; · developments regarding our efforts to achieve marketing approval for our products; · developments in our relationships with Wyeth, Ono and any other business partner(s) with which we may collaborate in the future regarding the development and commercialization of RELISTOR; · developments in current or future relationships with other collaborative partners with respect to other products and candidates; · announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us, our collaborators or our competitors; · developments in patent or other proprietary rights; · governmental regulation; · changes in reimbursement policies or health care legislation; · public concern as to the safety and efficacy of products developed by us, our collaborators or our competitors; · our ability to fund ongoing operations; · fluctuations in our operating results; and · general market conditions. Purchases of our common shares pursuant to our share repurchase program may, depending on their timing, volume and form, result in our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such purchases. If purchases under the program are discontinued, our stock price may fall. Our principal stockholders are able to exert significant influence over matters submitted to stockholders for approval. At December 31, 2009, our directors and executive officers and stockholders affiliated with Tudor Investment Corporation together beneficially owned or controlled approximately one-fifth of our outstanding shares of common stock. At that date, our five largest stockholders, excluding our directors and executive officers and stockholders affiliated with Tudor, beneficially owned or controlled in the aggregate approximately 45% of our outstanding shares. Our directors and executive officers and Tudor-related stockholders, should they choose to act together, could exert significant influence in determining the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval and otherwise control our business. This control could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us and, consequently, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Other significant but unrelated stockholders could also exert influence in such matters. Anti-takeover provisions may make the removal of our Board of Directors and/or management more difficult, and consequently, may discourage hostile bids for control of our company that may be beneficial to our stockholders. Our Board of Directors is authorized, without further stockholder action, to issue from time to time shares of preferred stock in one or more designated series or classes. The issuance of preferred stock, as well as provisions in certain of our stock options that provide for acceleration of exercisability upon a change of control, and Section 203 and other provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law could: · make the takeover of Progenics or the removal of our Board of Directors or management more difficult; · discourage hostile bids for control of Progenics in which stockholders may receive a premium for their shares of common stock; and · otherwise dilute the rights of holders of our common stock and depress the market price of our common stock. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS If there are substantial sales of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline. Sales of substantial numbers of shares of common stock could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. We require substantial external funding to finance our research and development programs and may seek such funding through the issuance and sale of our common stock. In addition, some of our other stockholders are entitled to require us to register their shares of common stock for offer or sale to the public. We have filed Form S-8 registration statements registering shares issuable pursuant to our equity compensation plans and periodically seek to increase the amount of securities available under these plans. Any sales by existing stockholders or holders of options, or other rights, may have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There were no unresolved SEC staff comments regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act as of December 31, 2009. Item 