Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and operations entail a variety of serious risks and uncertainties, including those described below. Our product development programs are inherently risky. We are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of product candidates based on new technologies. We must complete successfully clinical trials and obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates as well as additional formulations of and indications for RELISTOR. In the Japanese market, we must rely on Ono to conduct successful clinical trials and obtain regulatory approvals. Our other research and development programs, including those related to PSMA and PRO 140, involve novel approaches to human therapeutics. There is little precedent for the successful commercialization of products based on our technologies, and there are a number of technological challenges that we must overcome to complete most of our development efforts. We may not be able successfully to develop further any of our products. 13 Table of Contents We are dependent on Wyeth and Ono to develop and commercialize RELISTOR in their respective areas, exposing us to significant risks, including that Wyeth’s announced acquisition by Pfizer may adversely affect our Collaboration. We are dependent upon Wyeth and Ono in their respective territories to perform and fund development, including clinical testing of RELISTOR, make related regulatory filings and manufacture and market products. Revenues from the sale of RELISTOR depend almost entirely upon the efforts of Wyeth and, in Japan, Ono. Wyeth and Ono have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources they apply to sales of the RELISTOR products in their territories and may not be effective in marketing such products. Our business relationships with Wyeth and Ono may not be scientifically, clinically or commercially successful. Wyeth is a large, diversified pharmaceutical company with global operations and its own corporate objectives, which may not be consistent with our best interests. In addition, Wyeth and Pfizer have recently entered a definitive agreement under which Pfizer is to acquire Wyeth. We cannot predict how a combined Pfizer and Wyeth may view the utility and attractiveness of our Collaboration. As a result of completion of this proposed acquisition or for other reasons, Wyeth or Pfizer may change its strategic focus or pursue alternative technologies in a manner that results in reduced or delayed revenues to us. We cannot predict whether a combined Pfizer and Wyeth will determine to continue, seek to change or terminate our Collaboration, or devote the same resources Wyeth currently dedicates to it. If a combined Wyeth and Pfizer were to terminate the Collaboration, we would no longer receive milestone and royalty payments and would need to undertake development and commercialization of RELISTOR ourselves or through another collaboration or licensing arrangement. We may not learn of their plans for RELISTOR and our Collaboration unless and until the proposed transaction closes. If our relationship with Wyeth or Ono terminates and we seek alternative arrangements with one or more other parties to develop and commercialize RELISTOR, we may not be able to enter into such an agreement with other suitable companies on acceptable terms or at all. To continue to develop and commercialize RELISTOR on our own, we would have to develop sales and marketing organization and a distribution infrastructure, neither of which we currently have. Developing these resources would be an expensive and lengthy process and would have a material adverse effect on our financial resources and profitability. A termination of our relationship with Wyeth could also seriously compromise the development program for RELISTOR and possibly our other product candidates, as we could experience significant delays and would have to assume full funding and other responsibility for further development and eventual commercialization. Any of these outcomes would result in delays in our ability to distribute RELISTOR and would increase our expenses. Our relationships with Wyeth and Ono are multi-faceted and involve complex sharing of control over decisions, responsibilities, costs and benefits. We have had and may have future disagreements with them concerning product development, marketing strategies, manufacturing and supply issues, and rights relating to intellectual property. Both Wyeth and Ono have significantly greater financial and managerial resources than we do, which either could draw upon in the event of a dispute. Disagreements between either of them and us could lead to lengthy and expensive litigation or other dispute-resolution proceedings as well as to extensive financial and operational consequences to us, and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If testing does not yield successful results, our products will not be approved. Regulatory approvals are necessary before product candidates can be marketed. To obtain them, we or our collaborators must demonstrate a product’s safety and efficacy through extensive pre-clinical and clinical testing. Numerous adverse events may arise during, or as a result of, the testing process, such as: · results of pre-clinical studies being inconclusive or not indicative of results in human clinical trials; · potential products not having the desired efficacy or having undesirable side effects or other characteristics that preclude marketing approval or limit their commercial use if approved; 14 Table of Contents · after reviewing test results, we or our collaborators may abandon projects which we previously believed to be promising; and · we, our collaborators or regulators may suspend or terminate clinical trials if we or they believe that the participating subjects are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. Clinical testing is very expensive and can take many years. Results attained in early human clinical trials may not be indicative of results in later clinical trials. In addition, many of our investigational or experimental drugs, such as PRO 140, PRO 206 and the PSMA product candidates, are at an early stage of development, and successful commercialization of early stage product candidates requires significant research, development, testing and approvals by regulators, and additional investment. Our products in the research or pre-clinical development stage may not yield results that would permit or justify clinical testing. Our failure to demonstrate adequately the safety and efficacy of a product under development would delay or prevent marketing approval, which could adversely affect our operating results and credibility. A setback in clinical development programs could adversely affect us. We and Wyeth continue to conduct clinical trials of RELISTOR. If the results of these or future trials are not satisfactory, we encounter problems enrolling subjects, clinical trial supply issues or other difficulties arise, or we experience setbacks in developing drug formulations, including raw material-supply, manufacturing or stability difficulties, our entire RELISTOR development program could be adversely affected, resulting in delays in trials or regulatory filings for further marketing approval. Conducting additional clinical trials or making significant revisions to our clinical development plan would lead to delays in regulatory filings. If clinical trials indicate a serious problem with the safety or efficacy of a RELISTOR product, Wyeth may terminate the Collaboration Agreement or stop development or commercialization of affected products. Since RELISTOR is our only approved product, any setback of these types could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Ono must conduct clinical trials with Japanese patients to obtain regulatory approval in Japan. We have not tested RELISTOR in Japanese patients, and there can be no assurance that clinical trials of RELISTOR in Japanese patients will yield results adequate for regulatory approval in Japan. We are conducting or planning clinical trials of PRO 140, PSMA ADC and prostate cancer vaccine candidates. If the results of our future clinical studies of PRO 140 or PSMA ADC or the pre-clinical and clinical studies involving the PSMA vaccine and antibody candidates are not satisfactory, we would need to reconfigure our clinical trial programs to conduct additional trials or abandon the program involved. Because our vaccine product candidates may be deemed to involve gene therapy, a relatively new technology that has not been extensively tested in humans, regulatory requirements applicable to them may be unclear, or subject to substantial regulatory review that delays the development and approval process generally. We have a history of operating losses, and we may never be profitable. We have incurred substantial losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $298.7 million. We have derived no significant revenues from product sales or royalties. We may not achieve significant product sales or royalty revenue for a number of years, if ever. We expect to incur additional operating losses in the future, which could increase significantly as we expand our clinical trial programs and other product development efforts. Our ability to achieve and sustain profitability is dependent in part on obtaining regulatory approval for and then commercializing our products, either alone or with others. We may not be able to develop and commercialize products beyond subcutaneous RELISTOR. Our operations may not be profitable even if any of our other products under development are commercialized. We are likely to need additional financing, but our access to capital funding is uncertain. As of December 31, 2008, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, including non-current portion, totaling $141.4 million. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we had a net loss of $44.7 million and cash used in operating activities was $28.3 million. Although our spending on RELISTOR has been significant during 2007 and 2008, our net expenses for RELISTOR have been reimbursed by Wyeth under the Collaboration Agreement. We expect our spending on RELISTOR will decline in 2009 and thereafter, which will result in less reimbursement by Wyeth. 15 Table of Contents With regard to other product candidates, we expect to continue to incur significant development expenditures, and do not have committed external sources of funding for most of these projects. These expenditures will be funded from cash on hand, or we may seek additional external funding for them, most likely through collaborative, license or royalty financing agreements with one or more pharmaceutical companies, securities issuances or government grants or contracts. We cannot predict when we will need additional funds, how much we will need or if additional funds will be available, especially in light of current conditions in global credit and financial markets. Our need for future funding will depend on numerous factors, such as the availability of new product development projects or other opportunities which we cannot predict, and many of which are outside our control. Our access to capital funding is always uncertain. Recent turmoil in the international capital markets has exacerbated this uncertainty. Despite previous experience, we may not be able at the necessary time to obtain additional funding on acceptable terms, or at all. Our inability to raise additional capital on terms reasonably acceptable to us would seriously jeopardize the future success of our business. If we raise funds by issuing and selling securities, it may be on terms that are not favorable to existing stockholders. If we raise funds by selling equity securities, current stockholders will be diluted, and new investors could have rights superior to existing stockholders. Raising funds by selling debt securities often entails significant restrictive covenants and repayment obligations. A substantial portion of our cash and cash equivalents are guaranteed by the U.S. Treasury or Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s guarantee programs. Our marketable securities, which include corporate debt securities, securities of government-sponsored entities and auction rate securities, are classified as available for sale and are predominantly not guaranteed. These investments, while rated investment grade by the Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s rating agencies and predominantly having scheduled maturities in the first three quarters of 2009, are heavily concentrated in the U.S. financial sector, which continues to be under extreme stress. As a result of recent changes in general market conditions, we determined to reduce the principal amount of auction rate securities in our portfolio as they came up for auction and invest the proceeds in other securities in accordance with our investment guidelines. Beginning in February 2008, auctions failed for certain of our auction rate securities because sell orders exceeded buy orders. As a result, at December 31, 2008, we continue to hold approximately $4.1 million of auction rate securities which, in the event of auction failure, have been reset according to the contractual terms in the governing instruments. To date, we have received all scheduled interest payments on these securities. The principal amount of these remaining auction rate securities will not be accessible until a successful auction occurs, the issuer calls or restructures the underlying security, the underlying security matures and is paid, or a buyer outside the auction process emerges. We monitor markets for our investments, but cannot guarantee that additional losses will not be required to be recorded. Valuation of securities is subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict, such as changes to credit ratings of the securities and/or the underlying assets supporting them, default rates applicable to the underlying assets, underlying collateral value, discount rates, counterparty risk, ongoing strength and quality of market credit and liquidity and general economic and market conditions. Our clinical trials could take longer than we expect. Forecasts we publicly announce of commencement and completion times for clinical trials may not be accurate. For example, we have experienced delays in our RELISTOR clinical development program in the past as a result of slower than anticipated enrollment. These delays may recur. Delays can be caused by, among other things: · deaths or other adverse medical events involving subjects in our clinical trials; · regulatory or patent issues; · interim or final results of ongoing clinical trials; · failure to enroll clinical sites as expected; · competition for enrollment from clinical trials conducted by others in similar indications; · scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions; · disagreements, disputes or other matters arising from collaborations; 16 Table of Contents · our inability to obtain additional funding when needed; and · manufacturing problems. We have limited experience in conducting clinical trials, and we rely on others to conduct, supervise or monitor some or all aspects of some of our clinical trials. In addition, certain clinical trials for our product candidates may be conducted by government-sponsored agencies, and consequently will be dependent on governmental participation and funding. Under our agreement with Wyeth relating to RELISTOR, Wyeth has the responsibility to conduct some of the clinical trials for that product, including all trials outside of the United States other than Japan, where Ono has the responsibility for clinical trials. We have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted them entirely on our own. These events may impair investors’ confidence in our ability to develop products and our stock price may decline. We are subject to extensive regulation, which can be costly and time consuming and can subject us to unanticipated fines and delays. We and our products are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and comparable authorities in other countries. These agencies and other entities regulate the pre-clinical and clinical testing, safety, effectiveness, approval, manufacture, labeling, marketing, export, storage, recordkeeping, advertising, promotion and other aspects of our products. If we violate regulatory requirements at any stage, whether before or after marketing approval is obtained, we may be subject to forced removal of a product from the market, product seizure, civil and criminal penalties and other adverse consequences. We cannot guarantee that approvals of proposed products, processes or facilities will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. If we experience delays or failures in obtaining approvals, commercialization of our product candidates will be slowed or stopped. Even if we obtain regulatory approval, the approval may include significant limitations on indicated uses for which the product could be marketed or other significant marketing restrictions. Our product candidates may not obtain regulatory approvals needed for marketing, and may face challenges after approval. None of our product candidates other than RELISTOR has been approved by applicable regulatory authorities for marketing. The process of obtaining FDA and foreign regulatory approvals often takes many years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. We have had only limited experience in filing and pursuing applications and other submissions necessary to gain marketing approvals. Products under development may never obtain the marketing approval from the FDA or any other regulatory authority necessary for commercialization. Even if our products receive regulatory approval: · they might not obtain labeling claims necessary to make the product commercially viable (in general, labeling claims define the medical conditions for which a drug product may be marketed, and are therefore very important to the commercial success of a product), or may be required to carry “black box” or other warnings that adversely affect their commercial success; · approval may be limited to uses of the product for treatment or prevention of diseases or conditions that are relatively less financially advantageous to us than approval of greater or different scope, or subject to an FDA-imposed Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) that limits the sources from and conditions under which they may be dispensed; · we or our collaborators might be required to undertake post-marketing trials to verify the product’s efficacy or safety; · we, our collaborators or others might identify side effects after the product is on the market, or efficacy or safety concerns regarding marketed products, whether or not originating from subsequent testing or other activities by us, governmental regulators, other entities or organizations or otherwise, and whether or not scientifically justified, may lead to product recalls, withdrawals of marketing approval, reformulation of the product, additional pre-clinical testing or clinical trials, changes in labeling of the product, the need for additional marketing applications, declining sales or other adverse events; · we or our collaborators might experience manufacturing problems, which could have the same, similar or other consequences; and · we and our collaborators will be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continuous regulatory review. If products fail to receive marketing approval or lose previously received approvals, our financial results would be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents Even if our products obtain marketing approval, they might not be accepted in the marketplace. The commercial success of our products will depend upon their acceptance by the medical community and third party payors as clinically useful, cost effective and safe. If health care providers believe that patients can be managed adequately with alternative, currently available therapies, they may not prescribe our products, especially if the alternative therapies are viewed as more effective, as having a better safety or tolerability profile, as being more convenient to the patient or health care providers or as being less expensive. For pharmaceuticals administered in an institutional setting, the ability of the institution to be adequately reimbursed could also play a significant role in demand for our products. Even if our products obtain marketing approval, they may not achieve market acceptance. If any of our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will likely lose our entire investment in that product. Marketplace acceptance will depend in part on competition in our industry, which is intense. The extent to which any of our products achieves market acceptance will depend on competitive factors. Competition in our industry is intense, and it is accentuated by the rapid pace of technological development. There are products currently in the market that will compete with the products that we are developing, including AIDS drugs and chemotherapy drugs for treating cancer. There are also products in pre-clinical or clinical development that target the side effects of opioid pain therapy, and Adolor Corporation markets ENTEREG® (alvimopan) for the treatment of post-operative ileus, which could compete with RELISTOR. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and experience and greater manufacturing, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we do. These competitors may develop products that are superior to those we are developing and render our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. If our product candidates receive marketing approval but cannot compete effectively in the marketplace, our operating results and financial position would suffer. Competition with respect to our technologies and products is based on, among other things, (i) product efficacy, safety, reliability, method of administration, availability, price and clinical benefit relative to cost; (ii) timing and scope of regulatory approval; (iii) sales, marketing and manufacturing capabilities; (iv) collaborator capabilities; (v) insurance and other reimbursement coverage; and (vi) patent protection. Competitive disadvantages in any of these factors could materially harm our business and financial condition. Competing products may adversely affect our products. We are aware that Adolor Corporation, in collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline, received FDA approval in May 2008 for ENTEREG® (alvimopan), an oral form of an opioid antagonist, for postoperative ileus, “to accelerate the time to upper and lower gastrointestinal recovery following partial large or small bowel resection surgery with primary anastomosis.” We are also aware that Sucampo Pharmaceuticals, Inc., in collaboration with Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited, is currently conducting phase 3 pivotal clinical trials of AMITIZA® (lubiprostone) for the treatment of opioid-induced bowel dysfunction, and that Nektar Therapeutics has completed a phase 2 study of an oral once-a-day peripheral opioid antagonist in patients with OIC. In Europe, we are aware that Mundipharma International markets TARGIN® (oxycodone/naloxone, a combination of an opioid and systemic opioid antagonist). Any of these drugs may achieve a significant competitive advantage relative to our product. In any event, the considerable marketing and sales capabilities of GSK and Takeda may impair our ability to compete effectively in the market. In the case of PRO 140, five classes of products have been approved for marketing by the FDA for the treatment of HIV infection and AIDS. These drugs have shown efficacy in reducing the concentration of HIV in the blood and prolonging asymptomatic periods in HIV-positive individuals. All have been required to show efficacy in conjunction with other agents, which we have not demonstrated for PRO 140. We are aware of two approved drugs designed to treat HIV infection by blocking viral entry (Trimeris’ FUZEON® and Pfizer’s SELZENTRY™). We are also aware of various HCV drugs in pre-clinical or clinical development. If we are unable to negotiate collaborative agreements, our cash burn rate could increase and our rate of product development could decrease. Our business strategy includes entering into collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to develop and commercialize product candidates and technologies. We may not be successful in negotiating additional collaborative arrangements. If we do not enter into new collaborative arrangements, we would have to devote more of our resources to clinical product development and product-launch activities, seeking additional sources of capital, and our cash burn rate would increase or we would need to take steps to reduce our rate of product development. If we do not achieve milestones or satisfy conditions regarding some of our product candidates, we may not maintain our rights under related licenses. We are required to make substantial cash payments, achieve milestones and satisfy other conditions, including filing for and obtaining marketing approvals and introducing products, to maintain rights under our intellectual property licenses. Due to the nature of these agreements and the uncertainties of research and development, we may not be able to achieve milestones or satisfy conditions to which we have contractually committed, and as a result may be unable to maintain our rights under these licenses. If we do not comply with our license agreements, the licensors may terminate them, which could result in our losing our rights to, and therefore being unable to commercialize, related products. 18 Table of Contents We have limited manufacturing capabilities, which could adversely affect our ability to commercialize products. We have limited manufacturing capabilities, which may result in increased costs of production or delay product development or commercialization. In order to commercialize our product candidates successfully, we or our collaborators must be able to manufacture products in commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, at acceptable costs and in a timely manner. Manufacture of our product candidates can be complex, difficult to accomplish even in small quantities, difficult to scale-up for large-scale production and subject to delays, inefficiencies and low yields of quality products. The cost of manufacturing some of our products may make them prohibitively expensive. If adequate supplies of any of our product candidates or related materials are not available to us on a timely basis or at all, our clinical trials could be seriously delayed, since these materials are time consuming to manufacture and cannot be readily obtained from third-party sources. We operate pilot-scale manufacturing facilities for the production of vaccines and recombinant proteins. These facilities will not be sufficient for late-stage clinical trials for these types of product candidates or commercial-scale manufacturing. We may be required to expand further our manufacturing staff and facilities, obtain new facilities or contract with corporate collaborators or other third parties to assist with production. In the event that we decide to establish a commercial-scale manufacturing facility, we will require substantial additional funds and will be required to hire and train significant numbers of employees and comply with applicable regulations, which are extensive. We may not be able to build a manufacturing facility that both meets regulatory requirements and is sufficient for our clinical trials or commercial scale manufacturing. We have entered into arrangements with third parties for the manufacture of some of our product candidates. Our third-party sourcing strategy may not result in a cost-effective means for manufacturing products. In employing third-party manufacturers, we do not control many aspects of the manufacturing process, including compliance with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices and other regulatory requirements. We may not be able to obtain adequate supplies from third-party manufacturers in a timely fashion for development or commercialization purposes, and commercial quantities of products may not be available from contract manufacturers at acceptable costs. We are dependent on our patents and other intellectual property rights. The validity, enforceability and commercial value of these rights are highly uncertain. Our success is dependent in part upon obtaining, maintaining and enforcing patent and other intellectual property rights. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical firms is highly uncertain and involves many complex legal and technical issues. There is no clear policy involving the breadth of claims allowed, or the degree of protection afforded, under patents in this area. Accordingly, patent applications owned by or licensed to us may not result in patents being issued. We are aware of others who have patent applications or patents containing claims similar to or overlapping those in our patents and patent applications. We do not expect to know for several years the relative strength or scope of our patent position. Patents that we own or license may not enable us to preclude competitors from commercializing drugs, and consequently may not provide us with any meaningful competitive advantage. We own or have licenses to several issued patents. The issuance of a patent, however, is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability, which can be challenged in litigation. Our patents may be successfully challenged. We may incur substantial costs in litigation seeking to uphold the validity of patents or to prevent infringement. If the outcome of litigation is adverse to us, third parties may be able to use our patented invention without payment to us. Third parties may also avoid our patents through design innovation. Most of our product candidates, including RELISTOR, PRO 140 and our PSMA and HCV program products, incorporate to some degree intellectual property licensed from third parties. We can lose the right to patents and other intellectual property licensed to us if the related license agreement is terminated due to a breach by us or otherwise. Our ability, and that of our collaboration partners, to commercialize products incorporating licensed intellectual property would be impaired if the related license agreements were terminated. The license agreements from which we derive or out-license intellectual property provide for various royalty, milestone and other payment, commercialization, sublicensing, patent prosecution and enforcement, insurance, indemnification and other obligations and rights, and are subject to certain reservations of rights. While we generally have the right to defend and enforce patents licensed by us, either in the first instance or if the licensor chooses not to do so, we must usually bear the cost of doing so. Under the Wyeth Collaboration Agreement, Wyeth has the right, at its expense, to defend and enforce the RELISTOR patents licensed to Wyeth by us. With respect to Japan, Ono has certain limited rights to prosecute, maintain and enforce relevant intellectual property. With most of our in-licenses, the licensor bears the cost of engaging in all of these activities, although we may share in those costs under specified circumstances. 19 Table of Contents We also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. Third parties may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our technology or disclose our technology, and we may be unable to effectively protect our rights in unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. We require each of our employees, consultants and advisors to execute a confidentiality agreement at the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. These agreements may, however, not provide effective protection in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information. If we infringe third-party patent or other intellectual property rights, we may need to alter or terminate a product development program. There may be patent or other intellectual property rights belonging to others that require us to alter our products, pay licensing fees or cease certain activities. If our products infringe patent or other intellectual property rights of others, the owners of those rights could bring legal actions against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of the affected products. If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. We may not prevail in any action brought against us, and any license required under any rights that we infringe may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We are aware of intellectual property rights held by third parties that relate to products or technologies we are developing. For example, we are aware of other groups investigating methylnaltrexone and other peripheral opioid antagonists, PSMA or related compounds and CCR5 monoclonal antibodies and of patents held, and patent applications filed, by these groups in those areas. While the validity of these issued patents, patentability of these pending patent applications and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if asserted against us, any related patent or other intellectual property rights could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products. The research, development and commercialization of a biopharmaceutical often involve alternative development and optimization routes, which are presented at various stages in the development process. The preferred routes cannot be predicted at the outset of a research and development program because they will depend on subsequent discoveries and test results. There are numerous third-party patents in our field, and we may need to obtain a license under a patent in order to pursue the preferred development route of one or more of our products. The need to obtain a license would decrease the ultimate profitability of the applicable product. If we cannot negotiate a license, we might have to pursue a less desirable development route or terminate the program altogether. We are dependent upon third parties for a variety of functions. These arrangements may not provide us with the benefits we expect. We rely in part on third parties to perform a variety of functions. We are party to numerous agreements which place substantial responsibility on clinical research organizations, consultants and other service providers for the development of our products. We also rely on medical and academic institutions to perform aspects of our clinical trials of product candidates. In addition, an element of our research and development strategy is to in-license technology and product candidates from academic and government institutions in order to minimize investments in early research. We have entered into agreements under which we depend on Wyeth and Ono, respectively, for the commercialization and development of RELISTOR. We may not be able to maintain these relationships or establish new ones on beneficial terms. We may not be able to enter new arrangements without undue delays or expenditures, and these arrangements may not allow us to compete successfully. We lack sales and marketing infrastructure and related staff, which will require significant investment to establish and in the meantime may make us dependent on third parties for their expertise in this area. We have no established sales, marketing or distribution infrastructure. If we receive marketing approval, significant investment, time and managerial resources will be required to build the commercial infrastructure required to market, sell and support a pharmaceutical product. Should we choose to commercialize any product directly, we may not be successful in developing an effective commercial infrastructure or in achieving sufficient market acceptance. Alternatively, we may choose to market and sell our products through distribution, co-marketing, co-promotion or licensing arrangements with third parties. We may also consider contracting with a third party professional pharmaceutical detailing and sales organization to perform the marketing function for our products. Under our license and co-development agreement with Wyeth, Wyeth is responsible for commercializing RELISTOR. To the extent that we enter into distribution, co-marketing, co-promotion, detailing or licensing arrangements for the marketing and sale of our other products, any revenues we receive will depend primarily on the efforts of third parties. We will not control the amount and timing of marketing resources these third parties devote to our products. 20 Table of Contents If we lose key management and scientific personnel on whom we depend, our business could suffer. We are dependent upon our key management and scientific personnel. In particular, the loss of Dr. Maddon could cause our management and operations to suffer. Our employment agreement with Dr. Maddon is effective on a year-to-year basis, subject to automatic renewal unless either party terminates. Employment agreements do not assure the continued employment of an employee. We maintain key-man life insurance on Dr. Maddon in the amount of $2.5 million. Competition for qualified employees among companies in the biopharmaceutical industry is intense. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. In order to commercialize our products successfully, we may be required to expand substantially our personnel, particularly in the areas of manufacturing, clinical trials management, regulatory affairs, business development and marketing. We may not be successful in hiring or retaining qualified personnel. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of the raw and bulk materials needed to make our products, our product development and commercialization could be slowed or stopped. We currently obtain supplies of critical raw materials used in production of our product candidates from single sources. We do not have long-term contracts with any of these other suppliers. Wyeth may not be able to fulfill its manufacturing obligations for RELISTOR, either on its own or through third-party suppliers. Our existing arrangements with suppliers for our other product candidates may not result in the supply of sufficient quantities of our product candidates needed to accomplish our clinical development programs, and we may not have the right or capability to manufacture sufficient quantities of these products to meet our needs if our suppliers are unable or unwilling to do so. Any delay or disruption in the availability of raw materials would slow or stop product development and commercialization of the relevant product. A substantial portion of our funding comes from federal government grants and research contracts. We cannot rely on these grants or contracts as a continuing source of funds. A substantial portion of our revenues to date, albeit decreasing in 2007 and 2008, has been derived from federal government grants and research contracts. During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, we generated revenues from awards made to us by the NIH between 2003 and 2008, to partially fund some of our programs. We cannot rely on grants or additional contracts as a continuing source of funds. Funds available under these grants and contracts must be applied by us toward the research and development programs specified by the government rather than for all our programs generally. The government’s obligation to make payments under these grants and contracts is subject to appropriation by the U.S. Congress for funding in each year. It is possible that Congress or the government agencies that administer these government research programs will decide to scale back these programs or terminate them due to their own budgetary constraints. Additionally, these grants and research contracts are subject to adjustment based upon the results of periodic audits performed on behalf of the granting authority. Consequently, the government may not award grants or research contracts to us in the future, and any amounts that we derive from existing grants or contracts may be less than those received to date. Therefore, we will need to provide funding on our own or obtain other funding. If health care reform measures are enacted, our operating results and our ability to commercialize products could be adversely affected. In recent years, there have been numerous proposals to change the health care system in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions. Some of these proposals have included measures that would change the nature of and regulatory requirements relating to drug discovery, clinical testing and regulatory approvals, limit or eliminate payments for medical procedures and treatments, or subject the pricing of pharmaceuticals to government control. In some foreign countries, particularly member states of the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In addition, as a result of the trend towards managed health care in the U.S., as well as legislative proposals to reduce government insurance programs, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drug products. Consequently, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. If we or any of our collaborators succeed in bringing one or more of our products to market, third party payors may establish and maintain price levels insufficient for us to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Significant changes in the health care system in the U.S. or elsewhere, including changes resulting from adverse trends in third-party reimbursement programs, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our ability to raise capital and commercialize products. 21 Table of Contents We are exposed to product liability claims, and in the future we may not be able to obtain insurance against these claims at a reasonable cost or at all. Our business exposes us to product liability risks, which are inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products. We may not be able to avoid product liability exposure. If a product liability claim is successfully brought against us, our financial position may be adversely affected. Product liability insurance for the biopharmaceutical industry is generally expensive, when available at all. We have obtained product liability insurance in the amount of $10.0 million per occurrence, subject to a deductible and a $10.0 million annual aggregate limitation. Where local statutory requirements exceed the limits of our existing insurance or where local policies of insurance are required, we maintain additional clinical trial liability insurance to meet these requirements. Our present insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover claims brought against us. Some of our license and other agreements require us to obtain product liability insurance. Adequate insurance coverage may not be available to us at a reasonable cost in the future. We handle hazardous materials and must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. If we are involved in a hazardous waste spill or other accident, we could be liable for damages, penalties or other forms of censure. Our research and development work and manufacturing processes involve the use of hazardous, controlled and radioactive materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. Despite procedures that we implement for handling and disposing of these materials, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury. In the event of a hazardous waste spill or other accident, we could be liable for damages, penalties or other forms of censure. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future. Our stock price has a history of volatility. You should consider an investment in our stock as risky and invest only if you can withstand a significant loss. Our stock price has a history of significant volatility. Between January 1, 2006 and December 31, 2008, our stock price has ranged from $30.83 to $4.33 per share. Between January 1, 2009 and March 6, 2009, it has ranged from $5.53 to $10.81 per share. Historically, our stock price has fluctuated through an even greater range. At times, our stock price has been volatile even in the absence of significant news or developments relating to us. The stock prices of biotechnology companies and the stock market generally have been subject to dramatic price swings in recent years, and current financial and market conditions have resulted in widespread pressures on securities of issuers throughout the world economy. Factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock include: · the results of clinical trials and pre-clinical studies involving our products or those of our competitors; · changes in the status of any of our drug development programs, including delays in clinical trials or program terminations; · developments regarding our efforts to achieve marketing approval for our products; · developments in our relationships with Wyeth and Ono regarding the development and commercialization of RELISTOR; · announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us, our collaborators or our competitors; · developments in our relationships with other collaborative partners; · developments in patent or other proprietary rights; · governmental regulation; · changes in reimbursement policies or health care legislation; · public concern as to the safety and efficacy of products developed by us, our collaborators or our competitors; 22 Table of Contents · our ability to fund on-going operations; · fluctuations in our operating results; and · general market conditions. Purchases of our common shares pursuant to our April 24, 2008 announcement of our $15.0 million share repurchase program may, depending on their timing, volume and form, result in our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such purchases. If purchases under the program are not initiated or are discontinued, our stock price may fall. Our principal stockholders are able to exert significant influence over matters submitted to stockholders for approval. At December 31, 2008, our directors and executive officers and stockholders affiliated with Tudor Investment Corporation together beneficially own or control approximately one-fifth of our outstanding shares of common stock. At that date, our five largest stockholders, excluding our directors and executive officers and stockholders affiliated with Tudor, beneficially own or control in the aggregate approximately half of our outstanding shares. Our directors and executive officers and Tudor-related stockholders, should they choose to act together, could exert significant influence in determining the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval and otherwise control our business. This control could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us and, consequently, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Other significant but unrelated stockholders could also exert influence in such matters. Anti-takeover provisions may make the removal of our Board of Directors or management more difficult and discourage hostile bids for control of our company that may be beneficial to our stockholders. Our Board of Directors is authorized, without further stockholder action, to issue from time to time shares of preferred stock in one or more designated series or classes. The issuance of preferred stock, as well as provisions in certain of our stock options that provide for acceleration of exercisability upon a change of control, and Section 203 and other provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law could: · make the takeover of Progenics or the removal of our Board of Directors or management more difficult; · discourage hostile bids for control of Progenics in which stockholders may receive a premium for their shares of common stock; and · otherwise dilute the rights of holders of our common stock and depress the market price of our common stock. If there are substantial sales of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline. Sales of substantial numbers of shares of common stock could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. We require substantial external funding to finance our research and development programs and may seek such funding through the issuance and sale of our common stock. In addition, some of our other stockholders are entitled to require us to register their shares of common stock for offer or sale to the public, and we have filed Form S-8 registration statements registering shares issuable pursuant to our equity compensation plans. Any sales by existing stockholders or holders of options may have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There were no unresolved SEC staff comments regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act as of December 31, 2008. 23 Table of Contents Item 