Item 1A. Risk Factors FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS This document contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, particularly in the Business Outlook section of this MD&A. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology including “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “seeks,” “approximately,” “intends,” “plans,” “pro forma,” “estimates,” or “anticipates” or the negative of these words and phrases or other variations of these words and phrases or comparable terminology. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this document. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise any such statements to reflect any change in our expectations or in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any such statements may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Our annual and quarterly results are likely to be volatile. Our annual and quarterly operating results, including revenue, gross margin, and expenses, may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including: · our ability to improve the execution of our operations processes and eliminate operational waste and excess expense; · competitive factors and pricing pressures, including the impact of increasing competition which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability; · factors associated with international operations, including the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations; · the effect on our business, our suppliers, our customers or the economy resulting from travel, supply chain or general business interruptions from epidemic or pandemic diseases, such as the Asian bird influenza; · impact on demand, component availability and pricing, and logistics, and the disruption of manufacturing operations that result from labor disputes, war, acts of terrorism or political instability; · ramp up, expansion, transfer and rationalization of global manufacturing capacity; · potential impact of complying with changing environmental regulations, including directives on the Restriction of the use of Certain Hazardous Substances (“RoHS”) and on Waste Electric and Electrical Equipment (“WEEE”); · impact on order management and fulfillment, financial reporting and supply chain management processes as a result of our reliance on a variety of computer systems, including key applications which are periodically upgraded; · the discovery of a latent defect in any of our products; · our ability to develop and manage our capabilities, including supply and order fulfillment, necessary to meet the requirements of two distinct business models, that is, a transaction-oriented products business and a customer-focused systems solutions business, which include internal improvement projects and large-scale customer projects; · our ability to effectively align operating expenses and production capacity with the current demand environment; 12 · volatility in general world economic conditions, and, in particular, the possibility that the PC and related markets decline; · growth rates in the power protection industry and related industries; · product mix changes and the potential negative impact on gross margins from such changes; · changes in the seasonality of demand patterns; · inventory risks due to shifts in market demand; · component constraints, shortages, pricing and quality; · volatility in our interim quarterly or year-to-date tax rate due to our inability to accurately forecast the proportion of earnings to be derived from high and low tax cost jurisdictions. · risks of nonpayment of accounts receivable; · timing of orders from, and shipments to, customers; · timing of new product introductions and the market acceptance of those products; · changes in manufacturing costs; · natural disasters; and · the uncertainty of the litigation process including risk of an expected, unfavorable result of current or future litigation. If we are unable to make significant and meaningful progress on the ongoing re-architecture of our supply chain, our revenue and profitability may be adversely affected. In connection with this re-architecture, we are starting up new production lines and new factories, while at the same time transferring some of our manufacturing into lower cost manufacturing sites. These transitions are being undertaken to drive higher levels of customer satisfaction and reduce manufacturing costs over the long term. In doing so, we are incurring duplicate production costs and additional air freight to expedite shipments to customers. If we are unable to make significant and meaningful progress on this endeavor, our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate or continue to be adversely impacted. Gross margin variability could adversely affect our financial performance. Overall gross margins may be negatively impacted by increased operational costs, price reductions, a shift in product mix toward the faster-growing, lower-margin Large Systems products, rising commodity prices, and increased operational costs, including freight and warehousing, associated with the re-architecture of our supply chain. We currently compete with several firms providing power protection and related products and services and expect competition to increase in the future, which could affect our revenue and profitability. We believe that we are one of less than ten global companies providing a full range of UPS products and services worldwide. The UPS, power protection and related industries, however, are highly competitive on both a worldwide basis and a regional geographic basis. We compete, and will continue to compete, with several international firms, both on a worldwide basis and in various geographical regions, and within individual product and application niches. We expect competition to increase in the future from existing competitors and a number of companies that may enter our existing or future markets. Increased competition could adversely affect our revenue and profitability through price reductions and loss of market share. The principal competitive factors in our products include: · product performance and quality; · marketing and access to distribution channels; 13 · customer services; and · product design and price. Some of our current and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources than we have. We may not be able to continue to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors. Technological innovation, or failure to alter our products to meet the demands of technological innovation, could seriously harm our business. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. Current competitors or new market entrants may develop new products with features that could adversely affect the competitive position of our products. We may not be successful in selecting, developing, manufacturing and marketing new products or enhancing our existing products or in responding effectively to technological changes, new standards or product announcements by competitors. The timely availability of new products and enhancements, and their acceptance by customers are important to our future success. Delays in such availability or a lack of market acceptance could have an adverse effect on our business. Additionally, there may be technological innovation that eliminates or reduces the need for our products. Defects in our products could seriously harm our business. Our products may have defects despite testing internally or by current or potential customers. These defects could result in product returns or recalls and loss or delay in market acceptance, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, or financial condition. In early 2003, APC announced a product recall due to potential safety issues. Approximately 2.1 million affected devices were recalled worldwide, with approximately 900,000 devices recalled in the United States, limited to two specific models in APC’s Back-UPS CS product line, the Back-UPS CS 350 and the Back-UPS CS 500, in both 120-volt and 230-volt models. As of December 31, 2005, APC had incurred approximately 93% of currently estimated total recall costs of $14.1 million. Our estimation of remaining recall costs is $1.0 million. We expect that future amounts will not differ materially from our current estimates. Also refer to Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. Loss of any of our key personnel could seriously harm our business. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continuing contributions of key management, sales, marketing, research and development and manufacturing personnel, many of whom we would have difficulty replacing. We believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled hardware and software engineers, and management, sales, and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. Because we depend on foreign operations and revenues, we are exposed to currency fluctuations, import barriers and other risks related to conducting foreign operations. We manufacture and market our products worldwide through several foreign subsidiaries, distributors, and resellers. Our worldwide operations are subject to the risks normally associated with foreign operations including, but not limited to: · customer and vendor financial instability; · volatility in general world economic conditions; · the disruption of markets; · changes in export or import laws; · restrictions on currency exchanges; 14 · potentially negative tax consequences; · longer payment terms; · labor disputes, war, acts of terrorism, or political instability; · natural disasters; and · the modification or introduction of government policies with potentially adverse effects. International sales, which are both direct and indirect sales to customers outside the U.S., accounted for approximately 54.8%, 55.8%, and 55.0%, of our net sales in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue. We invoice our customers in various currencies. To date, we do not use any rate protection agreements or derivative agreements to hedge any foreign exchange exposure. Accordingly, we may be exposed to exchange losses based upon currency exchange rate fluctuations, which losses could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. A significant portion of products in our Small Systems and Large Systems reportable operating segments are manufactured in foreign locations, particularly developing countries such as Brazil, China, India, and the Philippines, which subject APC to a number of economic and other risks. The Small Systems have particular exposure to the Philippines, a country which is experiencing political and financial instability. Disruption of manufacturing efforts in these international facilities could materially adversely impact our ability to fulfill customer orders and potentially result in the loss of business. Because our business relies upon a variety of computer systems to operate effectively, the failure or disruption of, or latent defects in, these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business. APC is a highly automated company whose efficient and effective operation relies on a variety of information systems, including e-mail, enterprise resource planning, electronic data interchange, customer resource management and e-commerce systems. Disruption in the operation of these systems, or difficulties in maintaining or upgrading these systems, could have an adverse effect on our business. Difficulties that we have encountered, or may encounter, in connection with our implementation and use of our computer systems, including human error or our reliance on, or a failure or disruption of, or latent defects in, such systems, could adversely affect our order management and fulfillment, financial reporting and supply chain management processes, and any such difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our reliance on sole source suppliers may result in product delays or price increases. We currently procure services and obtain certain components of our products and certain finished products from sole sources. In the future, our suppliers may not be able to meet our demand for services, components and products in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our inability to secure and qualify alternative sources of supply in a timely manner may disrupt our ability to fulfill customer orders. We generally purchase these sole source services, components and products using purchase orders and have no guaranteed supply arrangements with the suppliers. In addition, the availability of many of these services, components and products is dependent in part on our ability to provide the suppliers with accurate forecasts of our future requirements. However, our operating results and customer relationships could be materially adversely affected by either an increase in prices for, or an interruption or reduction in supply of, any key services, components and products. We have a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights; others could infringe on or misappropriate our propriety rights and information. Our success will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of contractual rights, trade secrets, patents, trademarks, and copyrights to protect our proprietary rights. Although we own certain patents, and we have applied, and in the future we may apply, for patents, our intellectual property protection may not be sufficient to prevent competitors from developing similar technology. Moreover, in the absence of 15 patent protection, our business may be adversely affected by competitors which independently develop functionally equivalent technology. Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. We attempt to ensure that our products and processes do not infringe upon third party patents and other proprietary rights, but from time to time third parties have alleged, and in the future may allege, such infringement. If third parties allege or determine infringement, we may not prevail in such a challenge. Furthermore, if infringement is determined, we may not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to identify and successfully integrate acquisitions, our ability to expand and our financial results could suffer. We have limited experience in integrating acquired companies or technologies into our operations. We may from time to time pursue the acquisition of other companies, assets, products or technologies. We may not be able to integrate successfully products, technologies, distribution channels, key personnel and businesses of acquired companies into our business or product offerings. In addition, the integration of acquired companies may adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Further, these acquired companies, assets, products or technologies may not contribute significantly to our sales or earnings, and the sales and earnings from acquired businesses may be adversely affected by the integration process or other factors. If we are not successful in the integration of such acquired businesses, our financial results could be adversely impacted. In addition, we may not be able to identify and consummate suitable acquisition transactions in the future. Our stock price could be volatile, which could cause you to lose part or all of your investment. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to: · quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results; · changes in earnings estimates by analysts; · announcements of technological innovations or new products developed by us or our competitors; and · labor disputes, acts of war, terrorism and political instability and other events or factors. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations which have particularly affected the market price for many high-technology companies and which often have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our tax rate depends on earnings derived from certain foreign manufacturing operations. Our tax rate is heavily dependent upon the proportion of earnings that we derive from our Ireland, Philippines, India, and China manufacturing operations and our ability to reinvest those earnings permanently outside the United States. If the earnings of these operations as a percentage of our total earnings were to decline significantly from anticipated levels, or should our ability to reinvest these earnings be reduced, our effective tax rate would exceed the currently estimated rate for 2006. We have tax holidays in China and India which reduce the income taxes paid in those countries. Although this could have the effect of increasing our foreign taxes, our effective income tax rate will remain considerably lower than the U.S. statutory federal corporate tax rate of 35%. In addition, we believe that further tax savings can be achieved by implementing further tax planning strategies. If we are unable to successfully implement such strategies, our overall effective tax rate could increase. In addition, should our intercompany transfer pricing with respect to our Ireland, Philippines, India, or China manufacturing operations require significant adjustment due to audits or regulatory changes, our overall effective tax rate could increase. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may materially adversely impact our business. Effective internal controls are necessary for APC to provide reasonable assurance with respect 16 to its financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If APC cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to its financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our brand and operating results could be harmed. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If APC fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if APC experiences difficulties in their implementation, APC’s business and operating results could be harmed, APC could fail to meet its reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on APC’s stock price. We cannot provide any assurance that current laws, or any laws enacted in the future, will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations are subject to laws, rules, regulations, including environmental regulations, government policies and other requirements in each of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Changes in such laws, rules, regulations, policies or requirements could result in the need to modify our products and could affect the demand for our products, which may have an adverse impact on our future operating results. In addition, we must comply with new regulations restricting APC’s ability to include lead and certain other substances in its products. If APC does not comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations, APC could be subject to costs and liabilities and its business may be adversely impacted. We are, and may become, involved in litigation, which could materially harm our business. We are, and may in the future become, involved in litigation involving our business, products or operations. The litigation process is inherently uncertain and includes the risk of an unexpected, unfavorable result. Were an unfavorable result to occur, it is possible that we could be materially adversely impacted by any such litigation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 