ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any of the following factors could materially adversely affect our future operating results. Other factors are included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Information Concerning Forward Looking Statements.” The Company’s sales could decline due to macro-economic factors, weather and other factors outside of the Company’s control. Changes in economic conditions and changes in the local economies of the countries or regions in which we sell our products, such as changes in consumer confidence, increases in interest rates and increases in unemployment, could affect consumer demand for our products, which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. The Air Conditioning Systems and Services business performance is also influenced by weather conditions. Unexpected cool trends or unseasonably warm trends during the summer season could negatively or positively affect our business and results of operations. In the U.S., much of the consumer demand for the Company’s products has been driven by the replacement, repair, remodeling and new construction markets. The replacement, repair, remodeling and new construction markets have shown substantial growth over the last few years. Both our Air Conditioning Systems and Services and Bath and Kitchen segments have benefited from the growth in the replacement, repair and remodeling markets and new residential construction markets in the U.S and the Air Conditioning Systems and Services business has benefited from recent increases in the commercial air conditioning markets. As sales to the U.S., through our Air Conditioning Systems and Services and Bath and Kitchen segments comprise approximately 51% of our total sales, a significant decline in any of the replacement, repair, remodeling, new residential construction or commercial air conditioning markets brought on by a downturn in the U.S. economy, or for any reason, could negatively affect our results of operations. Similarly, in the last few years, the market for new heavy truck and bus production has increased in Western Europe, which is the leading market for the braking system products manufactured by the Company’s Vehicle Control Systems segment, which comprised 18% of 2005 sales. If economic conditions in Western Europe lead to a significant decline in the production of new trucks and buses our results of operations could be negatively affected. In addition, Vehicle Control Systems’ performance is influenced by the number of “miles driven” by users of commercial vehicles. As commercial truck and bus fleets continue to be used for longer periods of time, sales to OEM customers could soften as purchases of new vehicles for fleets are delayed. The Company’s exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on cross border transactions and the translation of local currency results into U.S. dollars could negatively impact our results of operations. The Company conducts business through subsidiaries in many different countries, and fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a significant impact on the reported results of our operations, which are presented in U.S. dollars. In 2005, approximately 50% of our consolidated sales occurred outside of the United States. A significant and growing portion of our products are manufactured in lower-cost locations and sold in various countries. Cross border transactions, both with external parties and intercompany relationships, result in increased exposure to foreign exchange effects. Accordingly, significant changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the EURO, Pound Sterling, Brazilian Real, Mexico Peso and the U.S. dollar, could cause fluctuations in the reported results of our operations that could negatively affect our results of operations. Additionally, the strengthening of certain currencies such as the EURO and U.S. dollar potentially exposes the Company to competitive threats from lower cost producers in other countries such as China. Lastly, the Company’s sales are translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. The strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar could result in favorable or unfavorable translation effects as the results of foreign locations are translated into U.S. dollars. 14 Table of Contents The Company is subject to general risks associated with our foreign operations. In addition to the currency exchange risks inherent in operating in many different foreign countries, there are other risks inherent in our international operations. The risks related to our foreign operations that we more often face in the normal course of business include: • Changes in tax law, increases in tax rates and the amount of foreign earnings relative to total consolidated earnings could change and impact our consolidated tax rate. • Foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, price or exchange controls, or other restrictions, including restrictions on repatriation of earnings; • General economic and political conditions in countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries; and • We may have difficulty complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, some of which may conflict with United States law, and the uncertainty created by this legal environment could limit our ability to effectively enforce our rights in certain markets. The ability to manage these risks could be difficult and may limit our operations and make the manufacture and distribution of our products internationally more difficult, which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. If the Company is unable to obtain certain raw materials and component parts at reasonable price levels, our ability to maintain existing sales margins may be affected. We purchase a broad range of materials and components throughout the world in connection with our manufacturing activities. Major items include steel, copper tubing, aluminum, ferrous and nonferrous castings, clays, motors, electronics and energy. The cost of raw materials represents a significant portion of our total costs. In 2005, we incurred higher costs for certain raw materials, energy and logistics (transportation costs), which affected our earnings. Our future results of operations and profitability could be negatively affected if we cannot obtain our raw materials at a reasonable cost. While the Company was able to raise prices in 2005 to offset some of the impact of rising commodity costs, on a cumulative basis, commodity cost increases remain greater than price increases. The Company may not be able to realize the estimated cost savings or productivity improvements from our materials management and Six Sigma initiatives, respectively. Our materials management initiative is centered on leveraging collective buying power on a global basis to improve purchasing efficiency, reduce the number of suppliers and improve the supply chain. Materials management also involves working with suppliers to develop effective components with lower part counts and easier assembly, resulting in improved quality and reduced costs. Material costs represent a significant portion of total costs. Our inability to successfully execute the materials management initiative could negatively affect the Company’s business and results of operations. Similarly, our Six Sigma initiative is structured to achieve significant productivity improvements in business and manufacturing processes through data driven decisions. Since 2000, more than 20,000 employees have been trained in Six Sigma tools that have contributed approximately $190 million in productivity gains. To the extent that we are not able to increase productivity at planned levels our results of operations could be adversely effected. If there are changes in the environmental, health or other regulations that affect one or more of the Company’s current products or future products, it could have a negative impact on the Company’s business and results of operations. We are currently governed by various environmental, health and other regulations in the U.S. and internationally. While we have a number of proactive programs underway to minimize the impact of our products on the environment and believe that we are in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations, we cannot predict whether there will be changes in the environmental regulations affecting our products. Currently, there are regulations which require the phasing out of certain refrigerants such as chlorofluorocarbons (“CFCs”) and 15 Table of Contents hydrochlorofluorocarbons (“HCFCs”), which are used in the products manufactured and serviced by our Air Conditioning Systems and Services segment. If we are unsuccessful in modifying certain of our products to be compatible with the substitute refrigerants, it could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. There are also federal and state statutes which impose energy efficiency standards for certain of our air conditioning systems. If we are unable to produce air conditioning systems that meet these statutory energy efficiency requirements, it could have a negative impact on our ability to compete. Any changes in the environmental, health or other regulations which affect our current or future products could have a negative impact on our business if we are unable to adjust our product offering to comply with such regulatory changes. In addition, it is possible that we will incur increased costs as a result of complying with health and environmental regulations. Changes to the Company’s asbestos liability or insurance receivable could impact our results of operations. In the fourth quarter of 2004, we recorded a liability on our balance sheet for all pending and unasserted potential future asbestos indemnity claims. We also have recorded a receivable with respect to expected insurance recoveries related to such liability. The amounts that we recorded for asbestos-related liability and insurance-related receivables rely on assumptions that are based on currently known facts. Our actual expenses and insurance recoveries could be significantly higher or lower than those recorded if the assumptions that we used or relied upon vary significantly from actual results or if U.S. tort legislation governing asbestos claims is passed. We review these assumptions on a periodic basis to determine whether adjustments are required to our recorded asbestos-related liability and related insurance receivable. Adjustments, if any, to the estimate of our recorded asbestos-related liability and/or insurance receivable could negatively impact the results of operations for the period or periods in which such adjustments are made. See Note 14 of Notes to Financial Statements for additional information regarding asbestos. If the Company is not able to maintain good relations with our unionized employees, we could suffer work stoppages that could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Approximately 53% of our employees, as of December 31, 2005, are members of labor unions. We have 16 major labor union contracts in the Americas. We also have 30 major labor contracts outside of North America. At least 8 of our union contracts will expire in 2006, and we will be required to renegotiate those in the coming year. While we do not anticipate any problems in renegotiating the labor contracts that could negatively affect operational results, we cannot ensure that we will be able to reach an agreement with the unions. Any disputes with the labor unions could result in work stoppages or other labor protests which could disrupt our operations. Any such labor disputes could negatively affect our business and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 16 Table of Contents 