Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Cyclical downturns in the semiconductor industry negatively impact demand for our equipment. Our business depends predominantly on the capital expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on current and anticipated market demand for integrated circuits and the products that use them. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical and has experienced periodic downturns that have had a 10 Table of Contents material adverse effect on the demand for semiconductor processing equipment, including equipment that we manufacture and market. The rate of changes in demand is accelerating, rendering the global semiconductor industry increasingly volatile. During periods of reduced and declining demand, we must be able to quickly and effectively align our costs with prevailing market conditions, as well as motivate and retain key employees and maintain a stable management team. Our inventory levels during periods of reduced demand have at times been higher than optimal. We cannot provide any assurance that we will not be required to make inventory valuation adjustments in future periods. During periods of rapid growth, we must be able to acquire and/or develop sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand, and hire and assimilate a sufficient number of qualified people. In each of the years 2001 through 2005, we have implemented restructuring plans to align our business with fluctuating conditions. Future restructuring plans may be required to respond to future changes. Net orders and net sales may be adversely affected if we fail to respond to changing industry cycles in a timely and effective manner. We experienced a downturn in demand in the first quarter of 2005, with a slight increase in the second quarter of 2005, a decrease in the third quarter of 2005 and an increase in the fourth quarter of 2005. We cannot provide any assurance that this increase will be sustainable, and our net sales and operating results may be adversely affected if demand does not continue to grow and if downturns or slowdowns in the rate of capital investment in the semiconductor industry occur in the future. The competitive and capital-intensive nature of the semiconductor industry increases the difficulty of maintaining and capturing market share. We face substantial competition in the industry, from both potential new market entrants and established competitors. Competitors may have greater financial, marketing, technical or other resources, and greater ability to respond to pricing pressures, than we do. They may also have broader product lines, greater customer service capabilities, or larger and more established sales organizations and customer bases. To maintain or capture a position in the market, we must develop new and enhanced systems and introduce them at competitive prices on a timely basis, while managing our research and development and warranty costs. Semiconductor equipment manufacturers incur substantial costs to install and integrate capital equipment into their production lines. This increases the likelihood of continuing relationships with chosen equipment vendors, including our competitors, and the difficulty of penetrating new customer accounts. In addition, sales of our systems depend in significant part upon a prospective customer’s decision to increase or expand manufacturing capacity — which typically involves a significant capital commitment. From time to time, we have experienced delays in finalizing system sales following initial system qualification. Due to these and other factors, our systems typically have a lengthy sales cycle, during which we may expend substantial funds and management effort. Heightened competition may also force price reductions that could adversely affect our results of operations. Rapid technological change in the semiconductor industry requires substantial research and development expenditures and responsiveness to customer needs. We devote a significant portion of our personnel and financial resources to research and development programs, and we seek to maintain close relationships with our customers in order to remain responsive to their product and manufacturing process needs. Our success depends in part on our ability to accurately predict evolving industry standards, to develop innovative solutions and improve existing technologies, to win market acceptance of our new and advanced technologies and to manufacture our products in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our products and processes must address changing customer needs in a range of materials, including copper and aluminium, at ever-smaller line widths and feature sizes, while maintaining our focus on manufacturing efficiency and product reliability. If we do not continue to gain market acceptance for our new technologies and products, or develop and introduce improvements in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or remain focused on research and development efforts that will translate into greater revenues, our business could be seriously harmed. In the semiconductor capital equipment market, technological innovations tend to have long development cycles. We have experienced delays and technical and manufacturing difficulties from time to time in the introduction of certain of our products and product enhancements. In addition, we may experience delays and technical and manufacturing difficulties in future introductions or volume production of our new systems or 11 Table of Contents enhancements. The increased costs and reduced efficiencies that may be associated with the development, manufacture, sale and support of future products or product enhancements relative to our existing products, may adversely affect our operating results. Our success in developing, introducing and selling new and enhanced systems depends upon a variety of factors, including product selection; hiring, retaining and motivating highly qualified design and engineering personnel; timely and efficient completion of product design and development; implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes; achieving specified product performance in the field; and effective sales and marketing. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in selecting, developing, manufacturing and marketing new products, or in enhancing our existing products. There can be no assurance that revenue from future products or product enhancements will be sufficient to recover our investments in research and development. To ensure the functionality and reliability of our future product introductions or product improvements, we incur substantial research and development costs early in development cycles, before we can confirm the technical feasibility or commercial viability of a product or product improvement. If new products have reliability or quality problems, reduced orders, or higher manufacturing costs, delays in collecting accounts receivable and additional service may result and warranty expenses may rise, affecting our gross margins. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are exposed to the risks of global operations. We serve an increasingly global market. Substantial operations outside of the United States and export sales expose us to certain risks that may adversely affect our operating results and net sales, including, but not limited to: • Tariffs and other trade barriers; • Challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations and providing prompt and effective field support to our customers outside of the United States; • Difficulties in managing foreign distributors; • Potentially adverse tax consequences, including withholding tax rules that may limit the repatriation of our earnings, and higher effective income tax rates in foreign countries where we conduct business; • Governmental controls, either by the United States or other countries, that restrict our business overseas or the import or export of semiconductor products, or increase the cost of our operations; • Longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivables outside of the United States; • Inadequate protection or enforcement of our intellectual property and other legal rights in foreign jurisdictions; • Global or regional economic downturns; • Geo-political instability, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism; and • Fluctuations in interest and foreign currency exchange rates, creating the need to enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge against the short-term impact of currency fluctuations, specifically transactions denominated in Japanese yen. Exchange rate volatility may also increase the cost of our exported products for international customers and inhibit demand. There can be no assurance that any of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, each region in the global semiconductor equipment market exhibits unique market characteristics that can cause capital equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers in Asia. Any negative economic developments or geo-political instability in Asia, including the possible outbreak of hostilities or epidemics involving China, Taiwan, Korea or Japan, could result in the cancellation or delay by certain significant customers of orders for our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our continuing expansion in Asia renders us increasingly vulnerable to these risks. 12 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results and stock price are unpredictable. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, which may adversely affect our stock price. Our future quarterly operating results and stock price may not align with past trends. The factors that could lead to fluctuations in our results include, but are not limited to: • Building our systems according to forecast, instead of limited backlog information, which hinders our ability to plan production and inventory levels; • Variability in manufacturing yields; • Failure to receive anticipated orders in time to permit shipment during the quarter; • Timing and cancellation of customer orders and shipments, including deferring orders of our existing products due to new product announcements by us and/or our competitors; • Changing demand for and sales of lower-margin products relative to higher-margin products; • Competitive pricing pressures; • The effect of revenue recognized upon acceptance with little or no associated costs; and • Fluctuation in warranty costs. Changes in tax rates or liabilities could negatively impact our future results. We are subject to taxation in the U.S. and other foreign countries. Our future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in the tax laws. We are also subject to regular examination of our tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different from the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Factors that could cause estimates to be materially different include, but are not limited to: • Changes in the regulatory environment; • Changes in accounting and tax standards or practices; and • Overall business conditions in the semiconductor equipment industry. We face risks associated with acquisitions. We have made — and may in the future make — acquisitions of or significant investments in businesses with complementary products, services and/or technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: • Difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of acquired companies; • Lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies and cost-savings; • Revenue and expense levels of acquired entities differing from those anticipated at the time of the acquisitions; • Difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations; • The potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies; • Claims by terminated employees, shareholders of acquired companies or other third parties related to the transaction; • The issuance of dilutive securities, assumption or incurrence of additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial portions of our cash; • Diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; and • The impairment of acquired intangible assets as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of acquired companies. 13 Table of Contents Acquisitions are inherently risky, and we cannot provide any assurance that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful. The inability to effectively manage the risks associated with previous or future acquisitions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are exposed to risks associated with our diversification strategy. Our core business and expertise has historically been in the development, manufacture, sale and support of deposition technologies, and more recently, wafer surface preparation and chemical mechanical planarization technologies. Our acquisitions of Peter Wolters and Voumard and the establishment of our Industrial Applications Group represent the first expansion of our business beyond the semiconductor equipment industry. We lack experience in the high-precision machine manufacturing equipment market, compared with our knowledge of the semiconductor equipment industry, and cannot give any assurance that we can maintain or improve the quality of products, level of sales, or relations with significant employees, customers or suppliers, that are necessary to compete in the market for high-precision machine manufacturing tools. Our efforts to integrate and develop the Industrial Applications Group may divert capital, management attention, research and development and other critical resources away from, and adversely affect, our core business. We face risks related to concentration of net sales. We currently sell a significant proportion of our systems in any particular period to a limited number of customers, and we expect that sales of our products to a relatively few customers will continue to account for a high percentage of our net sales in the foreseeable future. Although the composition of the group comprising our largest customers varies from year to year, the loss of a significant customer or any reduction in orders from any significant customer — including reductions due to customer departures from recent buying patterns, as well as economic or competitive conditions in the semiconductor industry — could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We face risks related to intellectual property. We intend to continue to seek legal protection, primarily through patents and trade secrets, for our proprietary technology. Seeking patent protection is a lengthy and costly process, and there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from any pending applications, or that any claims allowed from existing or pending patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technology. There is also no guarantee that any patents we hold will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us, given the speed with which technology becomes obsolete in the semiconductor industry. Our competitors may develop and obtain patents to technologies that are similar or superior to our technologies. In addition, the laws of foreign jurisdictions in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Adverse outcomes in current or future legal disputes regarding patent and intellectual property rights could result in the loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, or prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products. However, we are not aware of any significant claim of infringement by our products of any patent or proprietary rights of others. Regardless of the merit of any legal disputes, we incur substantial costs to prosecute or defend our intellectual property rights. In addition, if the terms of settlements entered into with certain of our competitors are not observed or enforced, we may suffer further costs. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to develop intellectual property depends on hiring, retaining and motivating highly qualified design and engineering staff with the knowledge and technical competence to advance our technology and productivity goals. To protect our trade secrets and proprietary information generally, we have entered into confidentiality or invention assignment agreements with our employees, as well as consultants and other parties. If these agreements are breached, our remedies may not be sufficient to cover our losses. 14 Table of Contents The loss of key employees could harm our business and operations. Our employees are extremely important to our success and our key management, engineering and other employees are difficult to replace. The expansion of high technology companies has increased demand and competition for qualified personnel. If we are unable to retain key personnel, or if we are not able to attract, assimilate or retain additional highly qualified employees to meet our needs in the future, our business and operations could be harmed. Supply shortages could affect our ability to meet customer demands. Our growth and ability to meet customer demands depend in part of on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of parts, components and sub-assemblies for the manufacture and support of our products from our suppliers. Although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that such parts are available from multiple suppliers, certain key parts may only be obtained from a single source or from limited sources. These suppliers are in some cases thinly capitalized, independent companies who derive a significant amount of their business from us and/or a small group of other companies in the semiconductor industry. Our supply channels may be vulnerable to disruption. Any such disruption to or termination of our supplier relationships may result in a prolonged inability to secure adequate supplies at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality, and may adversely effect our ability to bring new products to market and deliver them to customers in a timely manner. As a result, our revenues and operations may be harmed. We are exposed to risks associated with outsourcing activities. We also outsource the manufacture of major subassemblies, which enables us to focus on performing system design, assembly and testing in-house, thereby minimizing our fixed costs and capital expenditures. Although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that third party providers will perform to our standards, our reliance on suppliers and subcontractors limits our control over quality assurance and delivery schedules. Defects in workmanship, unacceptable yields, manufacturing disruptions and difficulties in obtaining export and import approvals may impair our ability to manage inventory and cause delays in shipments and cancellation of orders that may adversely affect our relationships with current and prospective customers and enable competitors to penetrate our customer accounts. In addition, third party providers may prioritize capacity for larger competitors or increase prices to us, which will affect our ability to respond to pricing pressures from competitors and customers, and our profitability. If our outside audit firm does not maintain its “independence,” we may be unable to meet our regulatory reporting obligations. Our independent registered public accounting firm communicates with us at least annually regarding any relationships between the firm and Novellus that, in the firm’s professional judgment, might have a bearing on the firm’s independence with respect to Novellus. If our independent registered public accounting firm finds that it cannot confirm that it is independent of Novellus based on existing securities laws and registered public accounting firm independence standards, we could experience delays or otherwise fail to meet our regulatory reporting obligations. Corporate governance and financial reporting compliance requirements may lead to increased costs and difficulty in attracting qualified executive officers and directors. To comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and adopted by NASDAQ in response to Sarbanes-Oxley, we have made changes to our financial reporting, securities disclosure and corporate governance practices. In 2005, we incurred increased legal and financial compliance costs due to these new and evolving rules, regulations, and listing requirements, and management time and resources were re-directed to ensure current and implement future compliance initiatives. These rules may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and members of our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, as well as make it more costly to obtain liability insurance coverage for our officers and directors. 15 Table of Contents We are exposed to risks related to our indemnification of third parties. From time to time, in the normal course of business, we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers, lessors, and parties to other transactions with us, with respect to certain matters. We have agreed, under certain conditions, to hold these third parties harmless against specified losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, other third party claims that our products when used for their intended purposes infringe the intellectual property rights of such other third parties or other claims made against certain parties. If our customers become involved in legal disputes in which they contend that we allegedly have indemnification obligations, we may be subject to potential liability. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount of liability under any indemnification obligations, whether or not asserted, due to our limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances that are likely to be involved in each particular claim. Historically, payments made by us under these obligations have not been material. We face risks related to changes in accounting standards for stock option plans. Beginning in our first fiscal quarter of 2006, SFAS No. 123(R) requires us to recognize compensation expense in our statement of operations for the fair value of unvested employee stock options at the date of adoption and new stock options granted to our employees after the adoption date over the related vesting periods of the stock options. The requirement to expense stock options granted to employees reduces their attractiveness because the expense associated with these grants may result in future compensation charges. In addition, the expenses recorded may not accurately reflect the value of our stock options because the option pricing models required by SFAS No. 123(R) were not developed for use in valuing employee stock options and are based on highly subjective assumptions, including the option’s expected life and the price volatility of the underlying stock. Alternative compensation arrangements that can replace stock option programs may also negatively impact profitability. Stock options remain an important employee recruitment and retention tool, and we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel if we reduce the scope of our employee stock option program following the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). Our employees are critical to our ability to develop and design systems that advance our productivity and technology goals, increase our sales goals and provide support to customers. Accordingly, as a result of the requirement under SFAS No. 123(R) to recognize the fair value of stock options as compensation expense, beginning in the first quarter of 2006, our future profitability can be expected to be reduced. We are exposed to risks associated with our investment activities. Our ability to compete in the semiconductor manufacturing industry depends on our success in developing new and enhanced technologies that advance the productivity and innovation advantages of our products. To further these goals, we have formed the Novellus Development Company, a venture fund that enables us to invest in emerging technologies and strengthen our technology portfolio for both existing and potentially new market opportunities. Although the fund intends to make enquiries reasonably necessary to make an informed decision as to the companies and technologies in which it will invest, we cannot provide any assurance as to any future return on investment or ability to bring new technologies to market. There are risks inherent in investing in start-up companies, which may lack a stable management team, operating history or adequate cash flow. The securities in which the fund may invest may not be registered under the Securities Act or any applicable state securities laws, and may be subject to restrictions on marketability or transferability. Given the nature of the investments that may be contemplated by the fund, there is a significant risk that it will be unable to realize its investment objectives by sale or other disposition, or will otherwise be unable to identify or develop any commercially viable technology. In particular, these risks could arise from changes in the financial condition or prospects, management inexperience and lack of research and development resources of the companies in which investments are made, and evolving technological standards. Investments contemplated by the fund may divert management time and attention, as well as capital, away from our core operating business. Any future losses on investments attributable to the fund may materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 16 Table of Contents 