ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below should be carefully considered before investing in the publicly traded securities of Trane. Any of the following factors could materially adversely affect the Company’s future operating results, financial condition and/or stock price. The risks described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Other risk factors are included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Information Concerning Forward Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Current Operations The Company’s sales could decline due to macro-economic factors and other factors outside of the Company’s control. Changes in economic conditions and changes in the local economies of the countries or regions in which the Company sells its products and services, such as changes in consumer confidence, increases in interest rates and increases in unemployment, could affect consumer demand for the Company’s products and services, which could negatively affect the Company’s business and results of operations. In addition, as a result of the completion of its planned separation, the Company’s operations are less diversified and therefore, subject, to a greater extent than previously, to the effects of changes to such factors on the commercial and residential construction markets in the geographic regions in which the Company operates. In the U.S., much of the consumer demand for the Company’s products has been driven by the replacement, repair, remodeling and new construction markets. The Company’s business has benefited from the growth in the replacement, repair and remodeling and new construction markets in the U.S. As sales in the U.S. comprise approximately 73 percent of total sales in 2007, a significant decline in any of the replacement, repair, remodeling or new construction markets or a downturn in the U.S. economy, could negatively affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on cross border transactions and the translation of local currency results into U.S. dollars could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. The Company conducts business through its subsidiaries in many different countries, and fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a significant impact on the reported results of operations, which are presented in U.S. dollars. In 2007, approximately 27 percent of consolidated sales occurred outside of the U.S. A significant and growing portion of the Company’s products are manufactured in lower-cost locations and sold in various countries. Cross border transactions, both with external parties and intercompany relationships, result in increased exposure to foreign exchange effects. Accordingly, significant changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the EURO, Pound Sterling, Chinese RMB (Yuan), Mexican Peso and the Canadian dollar, could cause fluctuations in the reported results of the Company’s operations that could negatively affect its results of operations. Additionally, the strengthening of certain currencies such as the EURO and U.S. dollar potentially exposes the Company to competitive threats from lower cost producers in other countries such as China. Lastly, the Company’s sales are translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. The strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar could result in favorable or unfavorable translation effects as the results of foreign locations are translated into U.S. dollars. In 2007, the Company recorded $0.1 million of foreign exchange gains in its Income Statement. Foreign exchange translation effects benefited the Company’s sales by $99.4 million and income from continuing operations by $8.4 million in 2007. 8 Table of Contents The Company is subject to general risks associated with its foreign operations. In addition to the currency exchange risks inherent in operating in many different foreign countries, there are other risks inherent in the Company’s international operations. The risks related to the Company’s foreign operations that are more often faced in the normal course of business include: • Changes in tax law, increases in tax rates and the amount of foreign earnings relative to total consolidated earnings could change and impact the consolidated tax rate; • Foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, price or exchange controls, or other restrictions, including restrictions on repatriation of earnings; • General economic and political conditions in countries where the Company operates may have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations in those countries; and • Changes in law could increase the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions, and the uncertainty of the legal environment in certain jurisdictions, especially in emerging markets, could limit the Company’s ability to effectively enforce its rights in certain markets. The ability to manage these risks could be difficult and may limit the Company’s operations and make the manufacture and distribution of its products internationally more difficult, which could negatively affect the Company’s business and results of operations. If the Company is unable to obtain certain raw materials and component parts at reasonable price levels, its ability to maintain existing sales margins may be affected. The Company purchases a broad range of materials and components throughout the world in connection with its manufacturing activities. Major items include steel, copper, aluminum, motors and electronics. The cost of raw materials represents a significant portion of total costs. In 2007 the Company incurred higher costs for certain raw materials, energy and transportation costs, which affected earnings. The Company’s future results of operations and profitability could be negatively affected if it cannot obtain raw materials at a reasonable cost. While the Company was able to raise prices in 2007 to offset the impact of rising commodity costs, on a cumulative basis, commodity cost increases remain greater than price increases. The Company may not be able to realize the estimated cost savings or productivity improvements from its materials management and Six Sigma Lean initiatives, respectively. The Company’s materials management initiative is centered on utilizing collective buying power on a global basis to improve purchasing efficiency, reduce the number of suppliers and improve the supply chain. Materials management also involves working with suppliers to develop effective components with lower part counts and easier assembly, resulting in improved quality and reduced costs. Material costs represent a significant portion of total costs. The Company’s inability to successfully execute specific programs associated with the materials management initiative could negatively affect the Company’s business and results of operations. Similarly, the Company’s Six Sigma Lean initiative is structured to achieve significant productivity improvements in business and manufacturing processes through data driven decisions. To the extent that the Company is not able to increase productivity at planned levels its results of operations could be adversely affected. If there are changes in the environmental, health or other regulations that affect one or more of the Company’s current products or future products, it could have a negative impact on the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company is currently governed by various environmental, health and other regulations in the U.S. and internationally. While there are a number of proactive programs underway to minimize the impact of the Company’s products on the environment and the Company believes it is in substantial compliance with 9 Table of Contents environmental laws and regulations, the Company cannot predict whether there will be changes in the environmental, health and other regulations affecting its products. Currently, there are regulations which require the phasing out of certain refrigerants such as CFCs and HCFCs, which are used in the products the Company manufactures and services. If the Company is unsuccessful in modifying certain of its products to be compatible with the substitute refrigerants, it could have a negative impact on its business and results of operations. There are also federal and state statutes which impose energy efficiency standards for certain of the Company’s air conditioning systems. If the Company is unable to produce air conditioning systems that meet these statutory energy-efficiency requirements, it could have a negative impact on its ability to compete. Any changes in the environmental, health or other regulations which affect the Company’s current or future products could have a negative impact on its business if the Company were unable to adjust its product offering to comply with such regulatory changes. In addition, it is possible that the Company will incur increased costs as a result of complying with environmental, health and other regulations. Changes to the Company’s asbestos liability or insurance receivable could impact its results of operations. In 2004, the Company recorded a liability for all pending and unasserted potential future asbestos indemnity claims. The Company also recorded a receivable with respect to expected insurance recoveries related to such liability. The amounts recorded for asbestos-related liability and insurance-related receivables rely on assumptions that are based on currently known facts and expected trends. The Company’s actual expenses and insurance recoveries could be significantly higher or lower than those recorded if the assumptions used or relied upon vary significantly from actual results or if U.S. tort legislation governing asbestos claims is passed. The Company reviews these assumptions on a periodic basis to determine whether adjustments are required to its recorded asbestos-related liability and related insurance receivable. Adjustments, if any, to the estimate of the recorded asbestos-related liability and/or insurance receivable could negatively impact the results of operations for the period or periods in which such adjustments are made. See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding asbestos. If the Company is not able to maintain good relations with its unionized employees, the Company could suffer work stoppages that could negatively affect its business and results of operations. Approximately 27 percent of the Company’s employees, as of December 31, 2007, are members of labor unions. The Company has eight major labor union contracts in North America. The Company also has four major labor contracts outside of North America. Five of the union contracts will expire in 2008, and the Company will be required to renegotiate them in the coming year. While the Company does not anticipate any problems in renegotiating the labor contracts that could negatively affect operational results, it cannot ensure that it will be able to reach an agreement with the unions. Any disputes with the labor unions could result in work stoppages or other labor protests which could disrupt its operations. Any such labor disputes could negatively affect the Company’s business and results of operations. See “Other Matters Relating to Trane’s Business—Employees” for more information. Changes in weather patterns and seasonal fluctuations may adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. Demand for the Company’s products and services is influenced by weather conditions. Company sales tend to be seasonally higher in the second and third quarters of the year because, in the U.S. and other northern hemisphere markets, summer is the peak season for sales of air conditioning systems and services. Unexpected cool trends or unseasonably warm trends during the summer season could negatively or positively affect the Company’s business and results of operations. In addition, the Company’s quarterly results may vary significantly. Although there is demand for the Company’s products and services throughout the year, a significant percentage of total sales are related to U.S. residential and commercial construction activity, which is generally higher in the second and third quarters of the year. Therefore, results of any quarterly period may not be indicative of expected results for a full year. 10 Table of Contents The Company may be subject to product liability and warranty and recall claims, which may increase the cost of doing business and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to a risk of product liability or warranty claims if its products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of its products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. While the Company maintains reasonable limits of insurance coverage to appropriately respond to such exposures, large product liability claims, if made, could exceed insurance coverage limits and insurance may not continue to be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. The Company cannot be assured that it will not incur significant costs to defend these claims or that it will not experience any product liability losses in the future. In addition, if any of the Company’s designed products are or are alleged to be defective, the Company could be required to participate in recalls and exchanges of such products. In the past five years, the Company’s warranty expense has fluctuated between 1.8 percent and 2.6 percent of sales on an annual basis. Individual quarters were above or below the annual averages. The future costs associated with providing product warranties and/or bearing the cost of repair or replacement of the Company’s products could exceed historical experience and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Separation Transactions The Company may not be able to achieve some or all of the benefits it expects will result from the separation transactions. The Company may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits it expects will result from the separation of two of the Company’s three historical operating segments into independent companies or such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. Additionally, the consolidated financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, does not reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that the Company would have achieved if the separation had been completed prior to, or during, the periods presented or those that the companies will achieve in the future. If the distribution of WABCO’s shares were to fail to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”), then the Company’s shareholders or the Company may be required to pay U.S. federal income taxes. The Company has received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) substantially to the effect that the distribution qualifies as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 of the Code. In addition, the Company has received an opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, tax counsel to Trane, substantially to the effect that the distribution will qualify as tax-free to Trane, WABCO and Trane shareholders under Section 355 and related provisions of the Code. The ruling and opinion are based on, among other things, certain assumptions as well as on the accuracy of certain factual representations and statements made by WABCO and the Company. In rendering its ruling, the IRS also relied on certain covenants that the Company and WABCO entered into, including the adherence to certain restrictions on WABCO’s and the Company’s future actions. Notwithstanding receipt by Trane of the private letter ruling and the opinion of counsel, the IRS could assert that the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction. If the distribution fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, then the Company would recognize a gain in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the fair market value of WABCO’s common stock distributed to the Trane shareholders over (ii) Trane’s tax basis in such common stock. Under the terms of the Tax Sharing Agreement, in the event the distribution were to fail to qualify as a tax-free reorganization and such failure was not the result of actions taken after the distribution by Trane or any of its subsidiaries or shareholders, WABCO would be responsible for all taxes imposed on Trane as a result thereof. In addition, each Trane shareholder who received WABCO common stock in the distribution generally would be treated as having received a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of 11 Table of Contents WABCO’s common stock received (including any fractional share sold on behalf of the shareholder), which would be taxable as a dividend to the extent of the shareholder’s ratable share of Trane’s current and accumulated earnings and profits (as increased to reflect any current income including any gain recognized by Trane on the taxable distribution). The balance, if any, of the distribution would be treated as a nontaxable return of capital to the extent of the Trane shareholder’s tax basis in its Trane stock, with any remaining amount being taxed as capital gain. Risks Related to the Pending Acquisition by Ingersoll Rand Failure to complete the merger will subject the Company to financial risks and could cause its stock price to decline. On December 15, 2007, the Company entered into the merger agreement with Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited. The Company cannot be assured that the merger agreement will be adopted by its shareholders or that the other conditions to the completion of the merger will be satisfied. In connection with the merger, the Company is subject to several risks, including the following: • the current market price of the Company’s common stock may reflect a market assumption that the merger will occur, and a failure to complete the merger could result in a decline in the market price of the Company’s common stock; • the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstance that could give rise to a termination of the merger agreement; • the inability to complete the merger due to the failure to obtain approval of the Company’s shareholders or the failure to satisfy other conditions to consummation of the merger; • the failure of the merger to close for any other reason; • under the merger agreement, the Company could be required to pay Ingersoll Rand a termination fee of $315 million, if the merger agreement is terminated in certain circumstance involving a takeover proposal by a third party or a change in the Company’s Board of Directors’ recommendation of the merger to its shareholders; • the proposed transaction disrupts current plans and operations and the potential difficulties associated with employee retention as a result of the merger; • the benefits the Company expects its shareholders would realize from the merger would not be realized, including as a result of the difficulties or delays in Ingersoll Rand’s ability to successfully integrate its businesses with the Company’s business following the merger; • the effect of the announcement of the merger on the Company’s operating results, business and relationships with customers, suppliers and other parties; and • the amount of the costs, fees, expenses and charges the Company has and may incur related to the merger. Because the market price of Ingersoll Rand common stock will fluctuate, shareholders of the Company cannot be sure of the market value of the shares of Ingersoll Rand common stock that they will receive upon completion of the merger until completion of the merger. The number of shares of Ingersoll Rand common stock to be received by holders of the common stock of the Company in the merger as part of the merger consideration is fixed at 0.23 of an Ingersoll Rand Class A common share for each share of the Company’s common stock. That number will not be adjusted in the event of any increase or decrease in the market price of either Ingersoll Rand Class A common shares or the Company’s common stock. That number would be reduced, however, if Ingersoll Rand substitutes, under certain circumstances, up to $1.00 per share in cash for shares having an equivalent value (based on the average price of 12 Table of Contents Ingersoll Rand common stock during a specified period prior to closing) as the amount of the increase in cash. The price of Ingersoll Rand common stock may vary at the closing of the merger from its price at the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and at the date of the special meeting of shareholders of the Company to be called to vote on adoption of the merger agreement. That variation may be the result of changes in the business, operations or prospects of Ingersoll Rand or the Company, market assessments of the likelihood that the merger will be completed and the timing of the merger, general market and economic conditions and other factors. In addition to the approval of the Company’s shareholders, completion of the merger is subject to the receipt of required approvals under certain antitrust laws of foreign jurisdictions and the satisfaction or waiver of other conditions. Failure to complete the merger could negatively impact the stock price and future business and financial results of Trane. If the merger is not completed, the ongoing business of Trane may be adversely affected and will be subject to several risks, including the following: (i) Trane being required, under certain circumstances, to pay Ingersoll Rand a termination fee of $315 million under the merger agreement; (ii) Trane having to pay certain costs relating to the merger, such as legal, accounting, financial advisory and printing fees; and (iii) the focus of management of the Company on the merger instead of on pursuing other opportunities that could be beneficial to the Company, in each case, without realizing any of the benefits of having the transaction completed. In addition, if the merger is not consummated, Trane may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and Trane’s customers and employees. If the merger is not completed, Trane cannot ensure its shareholders that the risks described above will not materialize and will not materially affect the business, financial results and stock price of Trane. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 