Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in other documents we file with the SEC, are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. Risks Related to the Merger with Lam Research The Merger is subject to the receipt of consents and clearances from domestic and foreign regulatory authorities who may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on Lam Research, Novellus or the combined company or that, if not obtained, could prevent completion of the Merger. On December 14, 2011, we announced the execution of the Merger Agreement with Lam Research. Before the Merger may be completed, applicable waiting periods must expire or terminate under antitrust and competition 11 Table of Contents laws and various approvals or consents must be obtained from regulatory entities. In deciding whether to grant antitrust or regulatory clearances, the relevant governmental entities will consider the effect of the Merger on competition within their relevant jurisdiction. The terms and conditions of any approvals that are granted may impose requirements, limitations or costs or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company’s business. The Merger Agreement may require us and/or Lam Research to comply with conditions imposed by regulatory entities and, in certain circumstances, either company may refuse to carry out the Merger on the basis of those regulatory conditions. There can be no assurance that regulators will not impose conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions, or that such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not have the effect of delaying completion of the Merger or imposing additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of the combined company following the Merger. In addition, neither we nor Lam Research can provide assurance that any such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not result in the delay or abandonment of the Merger. Any delay in completing the Merger may reduce or eliminate the benefits expected to be achieved by it. In addition to the required regulatory clearances, the Merger is subject to a number of other conditions beyond our and Lam Research’s control that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect its completion. We cannot predict whether and when these other conditions will be satisfied. Furthermore, the requirements for obtaining the required clearances and approvals could delay the completion of the Merger for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. Any delay in completing the Merger could cause the combined company not to realize some or all of the synergies that we expect to achieve if the Merger is successfully completed within its expected time frame. The Merger Agreement restricts us, without Lam Research’s consent, from taking certain actions. The Merger Agreement restricts us, without Lam Research’s consent, from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the Merger occurs or the Merger Agreement terminates. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business prior to consummation of the Merger or termination of the Merger Agreement. Unless the Merger Agreement is terminated earlier, we and Lam Research will each have the right to terminate the Merger Agreement if the Merger has not been completed by June 30, 2012 (which date is subject to extension under certain circumstances). If completed, our Merger with Lam Research may not achieve the anticipated results and benefits. We and Lam Research entered into the Merger Agreement with the expectation that the Merger would result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether our businesses and the businesses of Lam Research can be integrated in an efficient, effective and timely manner. The combined company is also subject to the risk that the expected cost savings and operational synergies may not be fully realized. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected liquidity provided by the combined company and diversion of management’s time and energy, and could have an adverse effect on the combined company’s business, financial results and prospects. We will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the Merger with Lam Research is pending that could adversely affect our financial results. Uncertainty about the effect of the Merger on our business may have an adverse effect on us. Although we intend to take steps designed to reduce any adverse effects, these uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the Merger is completed and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers, suppliers, distributors and others that deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships. 12 Table of Contents Novellus shareholders will have a reduced ownership and voting interest after the Merger. It is currently estimated that upon the completion of the Merger, current Lam Research stockholders and our former shareholders would own approximately 59% and 41% of the common stock of Lam Research, respectively. When the Merger closes, each of our shareholders who receives shares of Lam Research common stock will become a holder of Lam Research common stock with a percentage ownership of the combined company that will be smaller than the shareholder’s percentage ownership of us. As a result of these reduced ownership percentages our shareholders will have less voting power in the combined company than they now have with respect to us. Uncertainties associated with the Merger may cause a loss of management personnel and other key employees, which could adversely affect the future business and operations of the combined company. We are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of our officers and other key employees to execute their business plans. The combined company’s success after the Merger will depend in part upon its ability to retain key management personnel and other key employees. Our current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their roles within the combined company following the Merger or other concerns regarding the timing and completion of the Merger or the operations of the combined company, any of which may have an adverse effect on our ability to attract or retain key management and other key personnel. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the combined company will be able to attract or retain key management personnel and other key employees to the same extent that we have previously been able to attract or retain employees. In the event that the Merger Agreement is terminated prior to the completion of the Merger, we could incur significant transaction costs that could materially impact our financial performance and results. Failure to complete the Merger could also negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results. We will incur significant Merger transaction costs, including legal, accounting, financial advisory, filing, printing and other costs relating to the Merger. If the Merger is not completed, depending upon the reasons for not completing the Merger, including whether we have received or entered into a competing takeover proposal, we may be required to pay Lam Research a termination fee of $80 million or $120 million depending on the termination event. The payment of a termination fee could materially impair our financial performance and results. We cannot be sure of the market value of the Merger consideration that our shareholders will receive as a result of the announced Merger with Lam Research. Upon completion of the Merger, each share of our common stock will be converted into 1.125 shares of Lam Research common stock. The market value of the Merger consideration will vary from the closing price of Lam Research common stock on the date we announced the Merger, on the date that the joint proxy statement/prospectus was mailed to our shareholders, on the date of the special meeting of the our shareholders and on the date we complete the Merger and thereafter. Stock price changes may result from a variety of factors, including general market and economic conditions, changes in our respective businesses, operations and prospects, and regulatory considerations. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Any change in the market price of Lam Research common stock prior to completion of the Merger will affect the market value of the Merger consideration that our shareholders will receive upon completion of the Merger, and there will be no adjustment to the Merger consideration for changes in the market price of either shares of Lam Research common stock or shares of our common stock. 13 Table of Contents We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Merger. The Merger involves the combination of two companies that currently operate as independent public companies. The combined company will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating our business practices and operations with Lam Research. Potential difficulties the combined company may encounter as part of the integration process include the following: • the inability to successfully combine our business with Lam Research in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the full revenue and cost synergies and other benefits anticipated to result from the Merger; • complexities associated with managing the combined businesses, including difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies and the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks and other assets of each of the companies in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies; and • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the Merger. In addition, we have operated and, until the completion of the Merger, will continue to operate, independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in: • diversion of the attention of management; and • the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, our ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and others or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the combined company. Several lawsuits have been filed against Lam Research and us challenging the Merger and an adverse ruling may prevent the Merger from being completed. Lam Research, Novellus, and BLMS Inc., as well as current and former members of our Board of Directors, have been named as defendants in several lawsuits brought by our shareholders. Additional lawsuits may be filed against Lam Research, Novellus, the Merger subsidiary, and/or the directors of one of the foregoing companies in connection with the Merger. One of the conditions to the closing of the Merger is that no order, injunction, decree or other legal restraint or prohibition shall be in effect that prevents completion of the Merger. Consequently, if a settlement or other resolution is not reached in the lawsuits referenced above and the plaintiffs secure injunctive or other relief prohibiting, delaying or otherwise adversely affecting the defendants’ ability to complete the Merger, then such injunctive or other relief may prevent the Merger from becoming effective within the expected time frame or at all. The market price of Lam Research common stock after the Merger may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the shares of Novellus or Lam Research. Our business and Lam Research’s business differ in important respects and, accordingly, the results of operations of the combined company and the market price of the combined company’s shares of common stock may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the independent results of operations of Lam Research and us. 14 Table of Contents The Merger Agreement contains provisions that could discourage a potential competing acquiror of Novellus. The Merger Agreement contains “no shop” provisions that, subject to limited exceptions, restrict our ability to solicit, initiate, or knowingly encourage and facilitate competing third-party proposals for the acquisition of our stock assets. Further, even if the Board of Directors withdraws or qualifies its recommendation with respect to the Merger, we will still be required to submit each of the Merger-related proposals to a vote at our special meeting, unless the Merger Agreement is earlier terminated. In addition, the other party generally has an opportunity to offer to modify the terms of the Merger in response to any competing acquisition proposals before the Board of Directors of the company that has received a third-party proposal may withdraw or qualify its recommendation with respect to the Merger. The Merger Agreement further provides that, upon termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, including certain terminations in connection with an alternative business combination transaction as permitted by the terms of the Merger Agreement, we may be required to pay Lam Research a termination fee of $120 million. In addition, if we breach the Merger Agreement’s covenant on non-solicitation and the Merger Agreement is terminated on this basis, we may be required to pay Lam Research a termination fee of $80 million. These provisions could discourage a potential third-party acquiror that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant portion of us from considering or proposing that acquisition, even if it were prepared to pay consideration with a higher per share cash or market value than the market value proposed to be received or realized in the Merger. These provisions might also result in a potential third-party acquiror proposing to pay a lower price to the shareholders than it might otherwise have proposed to pay because of the added expense of the $120 million or $80 million termination fee that may become payable in certain circumstances. If the Merger Agreement is terminated and we determine to seek another business combination, we may not be able to negotiate a transaction with another party on terms comparable to, or better than, the terms of the Merger. Our executive officers and directors have interests in the Merger that may be different from, or in addition to, the interests of our shareholders generally. Our executive officers and directors have interests in the Merger that may be different from, or in addition to, the interests of our shareholders generally. Our executive officers negotiated the terms of the Merger Agreement. We have an Amended and Restated Employment Agreement with Mr. Hill that provides for severance benefits if his employment is terminated under certain circumstances following the completion of the Merger. In addition, Mr. Hill and Mr. Archer are negotiating agreements with Lam Research, which are expected to take effect following the Merger. Certain of our compensation and benefit plans and arrangements in which our executive officers participate provide for payment or accelerated vesting or distribution of certain rights or benefits upon completion of the Merger. Our executive officers and directors also have rights to indemnification and directors’ and officers’ liability insurance that will survive completion of the Merger. In addition, certain of our directors (who have not yet been identified) may be appointed as directors of Lam Research following the completion of the Merger. Our Board of Directors was aware of these interests at the time it approved the Merger and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. These interests may cause our directors and executive officers to view the Merger proposal differently and more favorably than you may view it. The shares of Lam Research common stock to be received by our shareholders as a result of the Merger will have different rights than the shares of our common stock. Upon completion of the Merger, our shareholders will become Lam Research stockholders and their rights as stockholders will be governed by the Lam Research articles of incorporation and bylaws. The rights associated with our common stock are different from the rights associated with Lam Research common stock. 15 Table of Contents If the Merger does not qualify as a reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Code, our shareholders may be required to pay substantial U.S. federal income taxes. As a condition to the completion of the Merger, each of Jones Day, tax counsel to Lam Research, and Morrison & Foerster LLP, tax counsel to us, will have delivered an opinion, dated on the closing date of the Merger, to the effect that the Merger will be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a “reorganization” within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code and that each of Lam Research, Novellus and Merger subsidiary will be a party to the reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(b) of the Code. These opinions will be based on certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters from Lam Research and us, as well as certain covenants and undertakings by Lam Research and us. If any of the assumptions, representations, covenants or undertakings is incorrect, incomplete, inaccurate or is violated in any material respect, the validity of the conclusions reached by counsel in their opinions could be jeopardized. Additionally, an opinion of counsel represents counsel’s best legal judgment but is not binding on the IRS or any court, so there can be no certainty that the IRS will not challenge the conclusions reflected in the opinions or that a court will not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS or a court determines that the Merger should not be treated as a “reorganization,” a holder of our common stock would recognize taxable gain or loss upon the exchange of our common stock for Lam Research common stock pursuant to the Merger. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and difficult to predict. Our Semiconductor Group depends predominantly on the capital expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on current and anticipated market demand for integrated circuits and the products that use them. Our business has historically been cyclical due to changes in our customers’ manufacturing capacity requirements and capital spending, which are affected by factors such as capacity utilization, consumer demand for products, inventory levels, and our customers’ access to capital. We believe that macroeconomic factors, including those associated with catastrophic events that may occur from time to time in key regions, such as the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan, may affect some of our customers’ levels of investment in capital equipment in the short term. Our business has experienced periodic downturns that reduced the demand for semiconductor processing equipment. The timing, length, and severity of these business cycles are difficult to predict. The semiconductor industry and our operations are subject to fixed costs that are difficult to reduce in the short term. During periods of reduced and declining demand, we must be able to quickly and effectively align our variable costs with prevailing market conditions, and at the same time motivate and retain key employees, including our management team. Downturns in the industry have, at times, resulted in higher than optimal inventory levels and lower than optimal gross margins due to a decrease in demand and lower production volumes during these periods. Because of this volatility, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not be required to make inventory valuation adjustments in future periods. Industry downturns have historically been followed by periods of rapid growth. During periods of rapid growth, we must be able to acquire or develop sufficient manufacturing capacity and hire and assimilate a sufficient number of qualified people to meet customer demand. Net orders, net sales, and results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to respond to changing industry and economic conditions in a timely and effective manner. We experienced a decline in net orders during the second and third quarters of 2011, followed by an increase in the fourth quarter of 2011. We could experience declines in net orders in the future, and, if so, our net sales and operating results could be adversely affected. Over the past several years, we have implemented reductions in workforce, consolidations of our manufacturing operations, and other cost reduction actions to align our business with then current industry and economic conditions. Future restructurings or other cost reduction actions may be required, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and our ability to capitalize on opportunities in a market recovery. 16 Table of Contents Our operating results and stock price are unpredictable. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, which may adversely affect our stock price. Our future quarterly operating results and stock price may not align with past trends. The factors that have caused and could continue to cause fluctuations in our operating results include, but are not limited to: • economic conditions in the electronics and semiconductor industry generally, and the semiconductor equipment industry specifically; • the financial condition of our customers, their levels of investment in capital equipment, and their ability to purchase our products; • timing and cancellation of customer orders and shipments, including deferrals of orders of our existing products due to macroeconomic factors, catastrophic events and new product announcements by us or our competitors; • failure to receive anticipated orders in time to permit shipment during the quarter; • our practice of building systems according to forecast, instead of limited backlog information, which hinders our ability to plan production and inventory levels; • competitive pricing pressures; • the effect of revenue recognized upon acceptance with little or no associated cost; • unpredictability of demand for, and variability in the mix of, our products in our forecast, which can cause unexpected inventory adjustments in a particular period; • unexpected changes in our operating results, which may result in increases to our compensation expense as we revise our estimates of the probability that performance-based awards will be obtained; • variability in manufacturing yields; • fluctuations in warranty costs; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • emergence of new industry standards; and • ability to fund capital requirements, which, in the future, could include debt or equity financing that could be dilutive to the existing holders of our common stock. In addition, the market price at which our 2.625% Senior Convertible Notes due May 15, 2041 (Senior Convertible Notes) and our common stock trade may be influenced by many factors, including: • our operating and financial performance and prospects; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our Senior Convertible Notes and our common stock which can affect, among other things, the volatility of their market prices; • investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate; and • the level of analyst research and media coverage of our common stock including changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts. 17 Table of Contents Public stock markets have experienced, and may in the future experience, extreme price and trading volume volatility, particularly in the technology sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons partly or wholly unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The competitive and capital-intensive nature of the semiconductor industry increases the difficulty of maintaining gross margin and maintaining and capturing market share. We face substantial competition in the industry from both potential new market entrants and established competitors. Competitors may have greater financial, marketing, technical or other resources, and greater ability to respond to pricing pressures. They may also have broader product lines, the ability to reduce prices through product bundling, greater experience with high-volume manufacturing, greater customer service capabilities, or larger and more established sales organizations and customer bases. To maintain or capture a position in the market, we must develop new and enhanced systems and introduce them at competitive prices on a timely basis, while managing our R&D, product, and warranty costs. Semiconductor manufacturers incur substantial costs to install and integrate capital equipment into their production lines. This increases the likelihood of continuing relationships with chosen equipment vendors, including our competitors, and the difficulty of penetrating new customer accounts. In addition, sales of our systems depend, in part, upon a prospective customer’s decision to increase or expand manufacturing capacity which typically involves a significant capital commitment. From time to time, we have experienced delays in finalizing system sales following initial system qualification. Due to these and other factors, our systems typically have a lengthy sales cycle, during which we may expend substantial funds and management effort. Heightened competition may also force price reductions that could adversely affect our results of operations. Rapid technological change in the semiconductor industry requires substantial research and development expenditures and responsiveness to customer needs. We operate in intensely competitive industries that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these developments, we may lose our competitive position and our products or technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete. We devote a significant portion of our personnel and financial resources to R&D programs and we seek to maintain close relationships with our customers in order to remain responsive to their product and manufacturing process needs. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to accurately predict evolving industry standards, develop innovative solutions and improve existing technologies, win market acceptance of our new and advanced technologies, and manufacture our products in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our products and processes must address changing customer needs in a range of materials, including copper and aluminum, at ever-smaller line widths and feature sizes, while maintaining our focus on manufacturing efficiency and product reliability. We must manage the risks associated with the cost, technical complexity, and timing of industry changes, including the transition from 300 mm to 450 mm wafers, and the resulting effect on demand for our products, as well as manufacturing equipment and services in general. If we do not continue to gain market acceptance for our new technologies and products, develop and introduce improvements in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions and customer requirements, or remain focused on R&D efforts that will translate into greater revenues, our business could be adversely affected. In the capital equipment market, technological innovations tend to have long development cycles. We have experienced delays, technical difficulties, and manufacturing setbacks from time to time in the introduction of certain of our products and product enhancements. We may experience similar delays, technical difficulties, and manufacturing setbacks in future new product introductions or volume production of our new systems or enhancements. The increased costs and reduced efficiencies that may be associated with the development, manufacture, sale, and support of future products or product enhancements relative to our existing products may adversely affect our operating results. 18 Table of Contents Our success in developing, introducing, and selling new and enhanced systems depends upon a variety of factors, including product selection; hiring, retaining, and motivating highly qualified design and engineering personnel; timely and efficient completion of product design and development; implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes; achieving specified product performance in the field; and effective sales and marketing. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in selecting, developing, manufacturing, and marketing new products, or in enhancing our existing products. There can be no assurance that revenue from future products or product enhancements will be sufficient to recover our investments in R&D. To ensure the functionality and reliability of our future product introductions or product improvements, we incur substantial R&D costs early in development cycles before we can confirm the technological feasibility or commercial viability of a product or product improvement. Reliability or quality problems, reduced orders, or higher manufacturing costs in new products may result in delays in collecting accounts receivable, and additional service costs and warranty expenses may rise, affecting our gross margins. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We are exposed to the risks of global operations. We serve an increasingly global market. Substantial operations outside of the United States and export sales expose us to certain risks that may adversely affect our operating results, net sales, and our ability to access cash from these operations, including, but not limited to: • global or regional economic downturns and uncertain economic and industry growth rates in various countries; • adverse conditions in credit markets; • variations among, and changes in, local, regional, national, or international laws and regulations including the interpretation and application of such laws and regulations; • potential adverse tax consequences, including withholding tax rules that may limit the repatriation of our earnings, and higher effective income tax rates in foreign countries where we conduct business; • foreign currency exchange controls, unfavorable foreign exchange rates and other limitations on our ability to repatriate earnings, including compliance with certain foreign regulations; • fluctuating raw material, commodity, and energy costs; • the need to regularly assess the size, capacity, and location of our global infrastructure and adjust accordingly; • inefficient and limited infrastructure and disruptions, such as large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities, transportation, or telecommunications providers and supply chain interruptions; • the need for an effective business continuity plan should disaster or other events occur that could disrupt our business operations; • longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the United States; • tariffs, interpretation and application of import and export licenses, and other trade and market barriers including potential difficulties associated with entry into new countries; • challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations that have different cultures, customs, business practices, and work expectations, and providing prompt and effective field and technical support to our customers outside of the United States; • hiring and integration of new workers, including those in countries such as Vietnam; • variations in our ability to develop relationships with local customers, suppliers, and governments; 19 Table of Contents • difficulties in managing foreign distributors; • governmental controls, either by the United States or other countries, that restrict our business overseas or the import or export of semiconductor products or increase the cost of our operations; • positions taken by governmental agencies regarding possible national commercial and/or security issues; • customer or government supported efforts to increase or promote operations in a particular country such as Korea or China and political and social attitudes, laws, rules, regulations, and policies within countries that favor domestic companies over non-domestic companies; • inadequate protection or enforcement of our intellectual property and other legal rights in foreign jurisdictions; and • political instability, natural disasters, and acts of war or terrorism as well as the related effects on our operations, suppliers, and the overall value chains of the industries in which we participate. We enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge against the short-term impact of currency fluctuations, including forecasted sales transactions denominated in Japanese yen. Our hedging programs reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the effect of currency exchange rate movements, and therefore fluctuations in exchange rates could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Exchange rate volatility may also increase the cost of our exported products for international customers and inhibit demand. There can be no assurance that any of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In addition, each region in the global equipment market exhibits unique market characteristics that can cause capital equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period. Many of these factors are present in Asia. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers in Asia, and we believe that Asia will continue to present large potential markets for our products and an opportunity for growth over the long term, potentially at lower levels of profitability and margins for certain products than have historically been achieved in other regions. Any negative economic developments, legal or regulatory changes, terrorism or geopolitical instability in Asia, including the possible outbreak of hostilities or health-related epidemics involving Singapore, China, Taiwan, Korea, or Japan could result in the cancellation or delay by certain significant customers of orders for our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our continuing expansion in Asia renders us increasingly vulnerable to these risks. The threat of terrorism targeted at the regions of the world in which we do business increases the uncertainty in our markets. Any act of terrorism which affects the economy or the semiconductor industry could adversely affect our business. Increased international political instability in various parts of the world, disruption in air transportation, and further enhanced security measures as a result of terrorist attacks may hinder our ability to do business and may increase our costs of operations. Such continuing instability could cause us to incur increased costs in transportation, make such transportation unreliable, increase our insurance costs, and cause international currency markets to fluctuate. This instability could have the same effects on our suppliers and their ability to deliver their products timely. If international political instability continues or increases, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. Our global operations require us to comply with a number of United States and international regulations. In particular, we must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which prohibits companies from providing anything of value to a foreign official or agent for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these foreign officials in their official capacity, for instance, to obtain new business or an unfair advantage or to retain ongoing business. Failure of our compliance with the FCPA could potentially result in penalties or restrictions on our ability to conduct business in certain global jurisdictions. These penalties and restrictions could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. 20 Table of Contents We are exposed to risks associated with outsourcing activities that could result in a reduction of our control over performance of these activities or supply shortages, which could affect our ability to meet customer demands. We outsource the manufacture of most subassemblies, which enables us to focus on performing system design, assembly, and testing in-house, thereby minimizing our fixed costs and capital expenditures. Although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that third party providers will perform to our standards, our reliance on suppliers and subcontractors limits our control over quality assurance and delivery schedules. Defects in workmanship, unacceptable yields, manufacturing disruptions, and difficulties in obtaining export and import approvals may impair our ability to manage inventory and cause delays in shipments and cancellation of orders that may adversely affect our relationships with current and prospective customers and enable competitors to penetrate our customer accounts. In addition, third party providers may prioritize capacity for larger competitors or increase prices to us, which may adversely affect our profitability and our ability to respond to pricing pressures from competitors and customers. Our success and ability to meet customer demands depend, in part, on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of parts, components, and subassemblies from our suppliers to manufacture and support our products. Although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that such parts, components, and subassemblies are available from multiple suppliers, in certain cases they may be obtained only from a single source or from limited sources. These suppliers are in some cases thinly capitalized, independent companies who derive a significant amount of their business from us or from a small group of companies in the semiconductor industry. As a result, our supply channels may be vulnerable to disruption. Any such disruption to or termination of our supplier relationships may result in a prolonged inability to secure adequate supplies at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality, and may adversely affect our ability to bring new products to market and deliver them to customers in a timely manner. As a result, any disruption or termination of our supplier relationships may damage our customer relationships and our results of operations may be adversely affected. We also outsource certain services to service providers. Some of these outsourced service providers employ hosted software applications known as “cloud computing” technology. “Cloud computing” is an information technology hosting and delivery system in which data is stored outside of the user’s physical infrastructure and is delivered to and used by the user as an internet based application service. These providers’ cloud computing systems may be susceptible to intentional cyber attacks that are outside of our control. If we do not effectively manage and communicate our strategies with our outsourced service providers, or if they do not perform as required or do not protect our data from cyber-attack related incidences, we may experience operational difficulties which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We face risks related to the disruption of our primary manufacturing facilities. Our business segments each have one primary manufacturing facility. Our operations are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons including, but not limited to, natural disasters, work stoppages, facility malfunctions, and terrorism. Such disruption at one or both of these facilities may cause delays in shipments of products to our customers which may result in cancellation of orders or loss of customers and could adversely affect our business. Uncertainty in the global economy and credit markets may adversely affect our results of operations and our liquidity. Volatility in the financial markets and the weakened global economy, together with the downgrade of the United States credit rating in 2011 and the ongoing European debt crisis, have contributed to the current uncertain economic climate. Because our business is ultimately driven by global demand for electronic devices, the current economic climate could cause our customers to delay or discontinue spending on our products. Concerns regarding the availability of credit could make it more difficult for our customers to raise capital, whether debt or equity, to finance their purchases of capital equipment, including the products we sell. Furthermore, our 21 Table of Contents customers may face liquidity issues, which could result in cancellations of equipment orders and increased payment delays or defaults. Reduced demand for our products and the general unavailability of financing for our customers could adversely affect our operating results. While our operating results generally improved during 2009 and 2010 along with the improvement in the economy, there can be no assurance that the economy and our operating results will stabilize or improve, that the economy will not experience another significant downturn, or that our operating results, financial condition, and business will not be adversely affected. Fluctuations and uncertainties in the economy make it challenging for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and to identify risks that may affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. We cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of any recovery, any future economic slowdowns, or the impact of economic conditions on the worldwide semiconductor industry. If the economy or the markets in which we operate do not improve or worsen from present levels, we could be required to record additional charges related to restructuring costs, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The length of our sales cycle makes our results of operations particularly sensitive to changes in macroeconomic conditions. While past downturns in our business have been followed by periods of rapid growth, this correlation may not occur in the future. Our investment portfolio includes corporate and government securities, auction rate securities, money market funds, and other types of debt securities. A decline in the capital and financial markets could adversely affect their market values and liquidity. For example, as of December 31, 2011, we held $52.6 million of auction-rate securities, net of $6.0 million in temporary impairment. Our auction rate securities are tax-exempt, with underlying assets that are either student loans substantially backed by the federal government or closed-end municipal bond funds. Due to auction failures for these securities, we will not have access to these funds until (i) future auctions are successful, (ii) the securities are called by the issuer, (iii) we sell the securities in a secondary market, or (iv) the underlying notes mature and are repaid. Currently, there are no active secondary markets for these securities. If current market conditions do not improve, additional temporary and other-than-temporary impairment charges could occur in future periods which would reduce the value of our investments and could negatively affect our results of operations. Our financial results have fallen short of anticipated levels in the past and may fall short in the future. We typically provide quarterly financial forecasts. These forecasts, when made, are based on estimates believed to be reasonable at the time. However, actual results may vary and have varied in the past from forecasted results for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, unanticipated manufacturing costs, changes in the economy or mix of products sold, unanticipated write-downs of inventory, a higher than anticipated effective tax rate, and unexpected changes in the volume or timing of customer orders and product acceptances. Our lengthy sales cycles make the timing of customer orders and product acceptances difficult to predict. In addition, our backlog at the beginning of a quarter typically does not include all orders required to achieve our sales objectives for that quarter and is not a reliable indicator of our future sales. Our revenues and operating results for any given quarter depend on us shipping orders as scheduled during that quarter, receiving customer acceptances during the quarter for previously shipped products, and obtaining new orders for products to be shipped in that same quarter. We believe that macroeconomic factors may affect some of our customers’ levels of investment in capital equipment in the short term. Any delay in, or cancellation of, scheduled shipments and customer acceptances or in shipments from new orders could materially and adversely affect our financial results for any particular quarter. These factors have caused and may continue to cause our financial results to differ materially from prior periods and from financial forecasts we have previously provided. Although we believe that these forecasts provide investors and analysts with a better understanding of management’s expectations for the future and are useful to investors, such forecasts are comprised of forward-looking statements subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this report and in our other public filings and public statements. If our operating or financial results for a particular period differ from our forecasts or the expectations of investment analysts, or if we revise our forecasts, the market price of our Senior Convertible Notes and common stock could be affected. 22 Table of Contents Changes in tax rates, tax assets, and tax liabilities have negatively affected our financial results in the past and could negatively affect our future results. We are subject to taxation in the United States and other countries. Our effective tax rate has fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future. Future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws. We compute our effective tax rate using actual jurisdictional profits and losses. Changes in the jurisdictional mix of profits and losses may cause fluctuations in the effective tax rate. Adverse changes in tax rates, our tax assets, and tax liabilities have negatively affected our financial results in the past and could negatively affect our results in the future. We are also subject to regular examination of our tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other tax authorities, including state revenue agencies and foreign governments. The IRS and other tax authorities have increasingly focused attention on intercompany transfer pricing with respect to sales of products and services and the use of intangible assets. We could face significant future challenges on these transfer pricing issues in one or more jurisdictions. We regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from examinations by the IRS and other tax authorities to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different from the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Due to certain years remaining open for examination, it is reasonably possible that our total unrecognized tax benefits could decrease over the next twelve months if we are examined by tax authorities and they make final determinations that are adverse to us, or if there is a lapse in the applicable statute of limitations that limits the use of such tax benefits. Factors that could materially affect our future effective tax rates include, but are not limited to: • changes in the regulatory environment, including changes to tax laws; • changes in accounting and tax standards or practices; • overall business conditions in the equipment industry; • changes in the composition of operating income by tax jurisdiction; and • our operating results before taxes. Strategic alliances may have negative effects on our business. Increasingly, semiconductor companies are entering into strategic alliances with one another to expedite the development of processes and other manufacturing technologies. Often, one of the outcomes of such an alliance is the definition of a particular tool set for a certain function or a series of process steps that use a specific set of manufacturing equipment. While this could work to our advantage, if our equipment becomes the basis for the function or process, it could work to our disadvantage if a competitor’s tool or equipment becomes the standard equipment for such function or process. Because semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line, we believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier’s processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time. Accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell to a given customer if that customer is currently using a competitor’s equipment. Additionally, even if our equipment was previously used by a customer, that equipment may be displaced in current and future applications by the tools standardized for use by the alliance. Similarly, our customers may team with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps. If those institutions utilize a competitor’s equipment when they establish those processes, it is likely that customers will tend to use the same equipment in setting up their own manufacturing lines. These actions could adversely affect our market share and financial results. 23 Table of Contents We face risks related to a highly concentrated customer base. Our customer base, especially in the semiconductor industry, has historically been highly concentrated. Sales have historically come from a limited number of customers, and we expect that sales to a small number of customers will continue to account for a high percentage of our net sales in the foreseeable future. Although the composition of the group comprising our largest customers varies from year to year, the loss of a significant customer or any reduction in orders from a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations, as we may not be able to replace the business from that customer. Because products are configured to customer specifications, changing, rescheduling, or canceling orders may result in significant non-recoverable costs. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business. Our ability to (i) make scheduled principal payments on, (ii) pay interest on, (iii) make cash payments upon conversion of, or (iv) refinance our indebtedness, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, and competitive factors. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to repurchase our Senior Convertible Notes upon the occurrence of a Fundamental Change or to pay the cash portion of the settlement amounts due when notes are due to be converted. Holders of our Senior Convertible Notes have the right to require us to repurchase the notes upon the occurrence of a Fundamental Change at 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, upon any conversion of the Senior Convertible Notes, we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the notes being converted. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to pay the Fundamental Change repurchase price for a note or the cash amount due to a converting holder. In addition, our ability to repurchase the Senior Convertible Notes or to pay cash upon conversions of the notes may be limited by law, regulatory authority or by the agreements governing any future indebtedness that we may incur. Our failure to repurchase our Senior Convertible Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture or to pay any cash amount payable upon conversion of a note as required by the indenture will constitute a default under the indenture. Our existing credit facility includes provisions which would cause our payment of the Fundamental Change repurchase price to constitute an event of default there under. Accordingly, we would not be able to make such payment without obtaining an amendment to, or repaying outstanding amounts under, such facility. The conditional conversion features of our Senior Convertible Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In the event the conditional conversion features of our Senior Convertible Notes are triggered, holders will be entitled to convert the notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their Senior Convertible Notes, we would be required to settle at least a portion of the applicable 24 Table of Contents settlement amount through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. The portion settled in stock would have a dilutive impact on earnings per share. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Senior Convertible Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. To the extent we deliver shares of our common stock upon the conversion of a Senior Convertible Note, the issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion of the Senior Convertible Note will dilute the ownership interest of the holders of our common stock at the time of such conversion, including holders who had previously converted their Senior Convertible Notes. The conversion of some or all of the Senior Convertible Notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders to the extent that such Senior Convertible Notes are convertible into shares of our common stock. Any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the Senior Convertible Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Senior Convertible Notes could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the Senior Convertible Notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. Certain provisions in the indenture governing the Senior Convertible Notes could delay or prevent an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions in the Senior Convertible Notes and the indenture could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. For example, if a takeover would constitute a Fundamental Change, holders of the Senior Convertible Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase their Senior Convertible Notes in cash. In addition, if a takeover constitutes a make-whole fundamental change, we may be required to increase the conversion rate for holders who convert their Senior Convertible Notes in connection with such takeover. In either case, and in other cases, our obligations under the Senior Convertible Notes and the indenture could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring us or removing incumbent management. We face risks related to intellectual property. We intend to continue to seek legal protection, primarily through patents and trade secrets, for our proprietary technology. Seeking patent protection is a lengthy and costly process, and there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from any pending applications, or that any claims allowed from existing or pending patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technology. There is also no guarantee that any patents we hold will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the patent rights granted will provide competitive advantages to us. Our competitors have developed and may continue to develop and obtain patents for technologies that are similar or superior to our technologies. In addition, the laws of foreign jurisdictions in which we develop, manufacture or sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Although we do not consider its business materially dependent upon any one single patent, our rights and the products made and sold under our patents, taken as a whole, are a significant element of our business. Our patents have varying remaining useful lives as determined by the applicable patent statute. Adverse outcomes in current or future legal disputes regarding patent and intellectual property rights could result in the loss of our intellectual property rights, subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties on terms that may not be reasonable or favorable to us, prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, or compel us to redesign our products to avoid incorporating third parties’ intellectual property. As a result, our product offerings may be delayed, and we may be unable to meet customers’ requirements in a timely manner. Regardless of the merit of any legal disputes, we have incurred and may be 25 Table of Contents required to incur, in the future, substantial costs to prosecute or defend our intellectual property rights. Even in the absence of infringement by our products of third parties’ intellectual property rights, we have elected in the past and may in the future elect to seek licenses or enter into settlements to avoid the costs of protracted litigation and the diversion of resources and management attention. However, if the terms of settlements that we enter into are not observed or enforced, we may suffer further costs. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our ability to develop intellectual property depends on hiring, retaining, and motivating highly qualified design and engineering staff with the knowledge and technical competence to advance our technology and productivity goals. To protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, we have generally entered into confidentiality or invention assignment agreements with our employees, as well as with consultants and other parties. If these agreements prove inadequate or are breached, our remedies may not be sufficient to cover our losses. We are subject to litigation proceedings that could adversely affect our business. Intellectual Property Litigation We have been subject to certain claims of infringement of intellectual property rights and may become subject to such claims in the future. Previous complaints for intellectual property claims have sought injunctive relief and unspecified damages. Claims of infringement of intellectual property rights have sometimes evolved into legal proceedings or litigation against us, and they may continue to do so in the future. It is inherently difficult to assess the outcome of litigation. Although we believe we have meritorious defenses to these claims and that the outcome of the litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations, there can be no assurances that we will prevail. Any such litigation could result in substantial cost to us, including diversion of the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. If we are unable to successfully defend against such claims, we could be required to expend significant resources to develop or license alternative non-infringing technology or to obtain a license to the subject technology. There is no assurance that we will be successful with such development, or that a license will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Without such a license, we could be prohibited from future sales of the infringing product or products, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. Other Litigation In addition to the litigation risks and proceedings mentioned above or elsewhere in this filing, we are currently involved in or may become subject to legal claims or proceedings related to securities, employment, customer or third party contracts, environmental regulations, product liability, or other matters. If we are required to defend against a legal claim or deem it necessary or advisable to initiate a legal proceeding to protect our rights, the expense and distraction of such a claim or proceeding, whether or not resolved in our favor, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. Further, if a claim or proceeding were resolved against us or if we were to settle any such dispute, we could be required to pay damages or refrain from certain activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. We have incurred and may in the future incur impairments to goodwill or long-lived assets. We review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, for impairment annually in the fourth quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. Negative industry or economic trends, including reduced market prices of our common stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates, or lack of growth in either of our business segments, could lead to additional impairment charges of our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets. If, in any period, our stock price decreases to the point where our 26 Table of Contents fair value, as determined by our market capitalization, is less than the book value of our assets, this could also indicate a potential impairment and we may be required to record an impairment charge in that period, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. We operate in highly competitive environments and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. Additionally, if our analysis indicates potential impairment to goodwill for one or both of our business segments, we may be required to record additional charges to earnings in our financial statements, which could negatively affect our results of operations. We maintain a self-insurance program with respect to our property, casualty, and other risks and are exposed to excessive costs that may not be covered by our insurance plans. We generally maintain various types of insurance policies which provide coverage only upon the occurrence of certain catastrophic losses. Losses not covered by insurance may be substantial and may increase our expenses, which could negatively affect our results of operations. We place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. The types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary over time and by location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to strategic risk management. The policies are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in what we believe is an acceptable level of risk on a self-insurance basis. Additionally, the financial condition of our insurers may be negatively affected by weakening in the global economy, which could adversely affect such insurers’ financial stability and, consequently, the insurance coverage they provide. We must attract, retain and motivate key employees and the failure to do so could harm our business and operations. In order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate our executives and other key employees. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, engineers, and sales representatives are critical to our business and the competition for experienced employees in the semiconductor industry can be fierce. To help attract, retain, and motivate qualified employees, we use stock-based compensation awards such as employee stock options and restricted stock awards. These forms of compensation become less valuable if our stock price experiences a period of decline. If we are unable to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified employees to meet our needs in the future, our business and operations could be harmed. We are exposed to various risks related to the regulatory environment. We are subject to various risks related to (i) new, different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies and/or regulatory agencies in the countries in which we operate, (ii) disagreements or disputes between national or regional regulatory agencies related to international trade, and (iii) the interpretation and application of laws, rules, and regulations. As a public company with global operations, we are subject to the laws of multiple jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, including those related to financial and other disclosures, corporate governance, privacy, and anti-corruption, such as the FCPA, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and anti-competition regulations, among others. Changes in laws, regulations, and standards may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. Financial reform legislation and the regulations enacted under such legislation has added costs to our business by requiring advisory votes on executive compensation and severance packages. To maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with all evolving standards. Efforts to comply with new and changing regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If we are found by a court or regulatory agency not to be in compliance with the laws and regulations, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents We are subject to increasingly strict environmental regulations. Our industry is subject to increasingly strict environmental regulations that control and restrict the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage, and disposal of certain chemicals, gases, and other substances used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. Public attention to environmental controls has continued to increase. Changes in environmental regulations could require us to invest in potentially costly pollution control equipment or alter the way our products are made. In addition, we use hazardous and other regulated materials that subject us to risks of strict liability for damages caused by accidental releases, regardless of fault. Any failure to control such materials adequately or to comply with regulatory restrictions or contractual obligations could increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. New climate change regulations could require us to change our manufacturing processes or obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for our manufacturing operations. In addition, new restrictions on carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gas emissions could result in significant costs for us. Greenhouse gas legislation has been introduced in the United States legislature and we expect increased worldwide regulatory activity in the future. The cost of complying, or of failing to comply, with these and other climate change and emissions regulations could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results. Additionally, we may be subject to environmental and other regulations in certain states and countries where we produce or sell our products. We also face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and prospective requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and certain other substances in electronics that apply to specified electronics products put on the market in the European Union (EU). The EU also makes producers of electrical goods financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment, and disposal of past and future covered products. Other countries, such as the United States, China and Japan, have enacted or may enact laws or regulations similar to the EU. These and other future environmental regulations could require us to reengineer certain of our existing products. New legal provisions are intended to provide transparency and accountability concerning the supply of minerals including those related to materials and rare earth elements coming from the conflict zones of the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. The Dodd-Frank Act includes provisions requiring the SEC to adopt regulations governing the disclosure, among other things, of the use of “conflict” minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries and of the measures taken by such companies to exercise due diligence with respect to the source and chain of custody of such minerals. While the SEC has not yet adopted final regulations on this issue, the public reaction to these disclosures in the future could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices. As a result, there may only be a limited pool of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Because our supply chain is complex, we may face challenges from our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the provenance of metals used in our products. We are exposed to risks related to our indemnification of third parties. From time to time, in the normal course of business, we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers and lessors, with respect to certain matters. We have agreed, under certain conditions, to hold these third parties harmless against specified losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, other third party claims that our products when used for their intended purposes infringe the intellectual property rights of such other third parties, or other claims made against certain parties. We have been, and in the future may be, compelled to enter into or accrue for probable settlements of alleged indemnification obligations or become subject to potential liability arising from our customers’ involvements in legal disputes. It is difficult to determine the maximum potential amount of liability under any indemnification obligation, whether or not asserted, due to our limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances that are likely to be involved in each particular claim. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we expend significant amounts in defending or settling any purported claims, regardless of their merit or outcomes. 28 Table of Contents We are exposed to risks associated with our diversification strategy. Our core business and expertise have historically been in the development, manufacture, sale, and support of deposition technologies and wafer surface preparation. Our experience in the high-precision machine manufacturing equipment market serviced by our IAG business is limited compared with our knowledge and expertise in the semiconductor equipment industry, which is serviced by our Semiconductor Group. We cannot provide any assurance that we can maintain or improve the quality of products, level of sales and gross margins, or relations with key employees and significant customers or suppliers that are necessary to compete in the markets serviced by our IAG business. We face risks associated with acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions. We have made, and may in the future make, acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses with complementary products, services and technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products, and personnel of acquired companies; • lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies and cost-savings; • difficulties entering new markets for which we have not previously manufactured and sold products; • revenue and expense levels of acquired entities differing from those anticipated at the time of the acquisitions; • difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations; • the potential loss of key employees, customers, and strategic partners of acquired companies; • claims by terminated employees, shareholders of acquired companies, or other third parties related to the transaction; • the issuance of securities dilutive to current shareholders, assumption or incurrence of additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial portions of our cash; • diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • the impairment of acquired intangible assets as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of acquired companies; and • the incurrence of unforeseen obligations or liabilities. When we make a decision to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty completing the transaction as a result of a range of possible factors such as new or changed demands from the buyer. These circumstances may cause us to incur additional time or expense or to accept less favorable terms, which may adversely affect the overall benefits of the transaction. Acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions are inherently risky, and we cannot provide any assurance that our previous or future transactions will be successful. The inability to effectively manage the risks associated with these transactions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 29 Table of Contents 