Risk Factors A significant part of our sales of our neurosurgical products comes from a single customer, which makes us vulnerable to the loss of that customer. Codman currently accounts for most of our total revenue from sales of our bipolar electrosurgical generators. During October 2005, monthly revenue from sales of our bipolar electrosurgical generators represented approximately 12% of the Company’s total monthly revenue. Under our existing agreement with Codman, Codman distributes this product on a non-exclusive basis. Our existing agreement with Codman will expire by its own terms on December 31, 2005, unless extended by mutual agreement of the parties. If we are unable to negotiate a new agreement with Codman on no less favorable terms than the existing agreement or, in the absence of such a renewal, if we are unable to establish alternative or additional channels of distribution for these products, our revenue for these products could significantly decrease. We have not yet entered into a new agreement with Codman. If any of our single source suppliers were to cease providing components, we may not be able to produce our products. We rely on a single source for the supply of the ultrasonic aspirator sold in the United States and Canada under Synergetics’ Omni® brand. Net sales of Synergetics’ Omni® ultrasonic aspirators for each of Synergetics’ fiscal years ended July 31, 2005 and 2004 amounted to greater than 10% of total net sales for each period. Also, the manufacture of Synergetics’ PHOTONTM xenon light source depends on single sources for several key components. In addition, we subcontract for the manufacture of the disposable cord and tubing sets for the Malis® electrosurgical generator with a single manufacturer. If any of these suppliers become unwilling or unable to provide products or components in the required volumes and quality levels or in a timely manner, we would be required to locate and contract with substitute suppliers. Although we believe that alternative sources for many of these components and raw materials are available, we could have difficulty identifying a substitute supplier in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms and may have to pay higher prices to obtain the necessary materials. Any supply interruption could harm our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply is identified and qualified. We have also become aware that the manufacturers of several parts used in our currently available bipolar electrosurgical generator models will no longer be manufacturing these parts in the near future. We have arranged to purchase and maintain a significant inventory of these parts. We are also developing alternative sources for these parts as well as alternative parts. However, our efforts may not 13 Table of Contents be sufficient depending on our unit sales. Alternative parts, if available, would require engineering redesign and may require regulatory approval before the manufacture of additional new units. The medical device industry is highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete effectively with other companies. The medical technology industry is characterized by intense competition. We compete with established medical technology companies and early stage companies that have alternative solutions for the markets we serve or intend to serve. Many of our competitors have access to greater financial, technical, research and development, marketing, manufacturing, sales, distribution services and other resources than we do. Furthermore, our competitors may be more effective at implementing their technologies to develop commercial products. Certain of the medical indications that can be treated by our devices can also be treated by other medical devices or by medical practices that do not include a device. The medical community widely accepts many alternative treatments and certain of these other treatments have a long history of use. Our competitive position depends on our ability to achieve market acceptance for our products, develop new products, implement production and marketing plans, secure regulatory approval for products under development and protect our intellectual property. We may need to develop new applications for our products to remain competitive. Technological advances by one or more of our current or future competitors could render our present or future products obsolete or uneconomical. Our future success depends upon our ability to compete effectively against current technology as well as respond effectively to technological advances and upon our ability to successfully implement our joint marketing strategies and execute our research and development plan. Our future results are dependent, in part, upon the successful introduction of our new multifunctional bipolar electrosurgical generator, to be marketed as the Malis® AdvantageTM. Our future success, in part, is dependent upon the successful launch of our new multifunctional bipolar electrosurgical generator and new proprietary single-use, hand-switching bipolar instruments. We announced these products on October 8, 2005 at the 56th Annual Congress of Neurosurgeons Meeting. While we believe that this new generator and related instruments will represent significant advancements in technology and performance and will replace other surgical tools in certain applications, such as monopolar electrosurgical systems and lasers, their success in the marketplace is dependent upon several factors including: • the completion of the design and testing; • their acceptance by surgeons; • the recognition of hospitals and surgical centers that the new generator and instruments offer sufficient advantages and benefits to warrant the cost of purchasing the Malis® AdvantageTM; • our ability to create an effective sales network; • our ability to sustain our average selling price through this network; and • the reaction of our competitors in this market. 14 Table of Contents If we are not successful in integrating the operations of Valley Forge and Synergetics, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized. If we, and our shareholders, are to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger, the operations of Valley Forge and Synergetics must be integrated efficiently. The combination of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. This process may disrupt the business of the Company and may not result in all of the benefits expected by Valley Forge and Synergetics separately. We cannot assure you that the integration of operations and management will be successful or that the anticipated benefits of the merger will be fully realized. The difficulties of combining the operations of Valley Forge and Synergetics include, among others: • developing a strategy for the Company, communicating it to the market and executing on this strategic vision; • rapidly and successfully integrating Valley Forge’s products into the existing Synergetics distribution channels while simultaneously launching the new generation Valley Forge multifunctional bipolar electrosurgical generator; • coordinating and harmonizing research and development activities to accelerate introduction of new products and technologies, and to react more quickly to market conditions, all at a reduced cost; • preserving customer, distribution, reseller, manufacturing, supplier, marketing and other important relationships of both Valley Forge and Synergetics and resolving any potential conflicts that may arise; • coordinating sales and marketing functions, particularly in the neurosurgery market; • retaining and attracting key employees; • managing the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; • consolidating operations, including rationalizing corporate information technology and administrative infrastructures; and • coordinating geographically separate organizations. As a result of these integration efforts, the Company may incur substantial costs, and its revenues and the value of its common stock may decrease. Our products may not be accepted in the market. We cannot be certain that our current products or any other products that we have or may develop or market will achieve or maintain market acceptance. We cannot be certain that our devices and the procedures they perform will be able to replace those established treatments or that either physicians or the medical community in general will accept and utilize our devices or any other medical products that we may develop. For example, we cannot be certain that the medical community will accept our new multifunctional electrosurgical generator and proprietary hand-switching bipolar electrosurgical instruments over traditional monopolar electrosurgical generators and instruments. 15 Table of Contents Market acceptance of our products depends on many factors, including our ability to: • convince third-party distributors and customers that our technology is an attractive alternative to other technologies; • manufacture products in sufficient quantities and at acceptable costs; and • supply and service sufficient quantities of our products directly or through distribution alliances. If we do not introduce new commercially successful products in a timely manner, our products may become obsolete over time, thereby decreasing our revenue and profitability. Demand for our products may change because of evolving customer needs, the introduction of new products and technologies, the discovery of cures for certain medical problems, evolving surgical practices and evolving industry standards. Without the timely introduction of new commercially successful products and enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time, causing our sales and operating results to suffer. The success of our new products will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • properly identify and anticipate customer needs; • commercialize new products in a cost-effective and timely manner; • manufacture and deliver products in sufficient volumes on time; • obtain regulatory approval for new products; • differentiate our products from those of our competitors; • achieve positive clinical outcomes; • satisfy the increased demands by health care payors, providers and patients for lower-cost procedures and shorter hospital stays and recovery times; • innovate and develop new materials, product designs and surgical techniques; and • provide adequate medical and/or customer education relating to new products and attract key surgeons to advocate these new products. New products and enhancements usually require a substantial investment in research and development before we can determine the viability of the product, and we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund this research and development. Moreover, new products and enhancements may not produce revenues in excess of the research and development costs, and they may become obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of new technologies or features. Our operating results may fluctuate. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to fluctuate from time-to-time in the future. Some of the factors that may cause these fluctuations include, but are not limited to: 16 Table of Contents • the introduction of new product lines; • product modifications; • the level of market acceptance of new products; • the timing of research and development expenditures; • timing of the receipt of orders from, and product shipments to, distributors and customers; • timing of expenditures; • changes in the distribution arrangements for our products; • manufacturing or supply delays; • the time needed to educate and train additional sales personnel; • costs associated with product introductions; • product returns; and • receipt of necessary regulatory approvals. Changes in the health care industry may require us to decrease the selling price for our products or could result in a reduction in the size of the market for our products, each of which could have a negative impact on our financial performance. Trends toward managed care, health care cost containment and other changes in government and private sector initiatives in the United States and other countries in which we do business are placing increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical therapies that could adversely affect the sale or the prices of our products. For example: • there has been a consolidation among health care facilities and purchasers of medical devices in the United States who prefer to limit the number of suppliers from whom they purchase medical products and these entities may decide to stop purchasing their products or demand discounts on our prices; • major third-party payors of hospital services, including Medicare, Medicaid and private health care insurers could substantially revise their payment methodologies or could impose reimbursement cutbacks that could create downward price pressure on our products; • numerous legislative proposals have been considered that would result in major reforms in the United States health care system that could have an adverse effect on our business; • there is economic pressure to contain health care costs in international markets; and • there have been initiatives by third-party payors to challenge the prices charged for medical products that could affect our ability to sell products on a competitive basis. 17 Table of Contents Both the pressures to reduce prices for our products in response to these trends and the decrease in the size of the market as a result of these trends could adversely affect our levels of revenues and profitability of our sales. We will first need to obtain regulatory approval to market our products under development. We may be subject to penalties and may be precluded from marketing our products if we fail to comply with extensive governmental regulations. Our research and development activities and the manufacturing, labeling, distribution and marketing of our existing and future products are subject to regulation by numerous governmental agencies in the United States and in other countries. The FDA and comparable agencies in other countries impose mandatory procedures and standards for the conduct of clinical trials and the production and marketing of products for diagnostic and human therapeutic use. Products we have under development are subject to FDA approval or clearance before marketing for commercial use. The process of obtaining necessary FDA approvals or clearances can take years and is expensive and full of uncertainties. Our inability to obtain required regulatory approval or clearance on a timely or acceptable basis could harm our business. Further, approval or clearance may place substantial restrictions on the indications for which the product may be marketed or to whom it may be marketed. Further studies may be required to gain approval or clearance for the use of a product for clinical indications other than those for which the product was initially approved or cleared or for significant changes to the product. Furthermore, another risk of application to the FDA relates to the regulatory classification of new products or proposed new uses for existing products. In the filing of each application, we are required to make a judgment about the appropriate form and content of the application. If the FDA disagrees with our judgment in any particular case and, for example, requires us to file a PMA rather than allowing us to market for approved uses while we seek broader approvals or requires extensive additional clinical data, the time and expense required to obtain the approval might be significantly increased or approval might not be granted. Approved and cleared products are subject to continuing FDA requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, maintenance of records, reporting of adverse events and product recalls, documentation and labeling and promotion of medical devices. The FDA as well as foreign regulatory authorities requires that our products be manufactured according to rigorous standards. These regulatory requirements may significantly increase our production costs and may even prevent us from making our products in amounts sufficient to meet market demand. If we change our approved manufacturing process, the FDA may need to review the process before it may be used. Failure to develop our manufacturing capability may mean that even if we develop promising new products, we may not be able to produce them profitability, as a result of delays and additional capital investment costs. In addition, failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could subject us to enforcement, including product seizures, recalls, withdrawal of clearances or approvals, restrictions on or injunctions against marketing our products or products based on our technology, and civil and criminal penalties. The various regulatory schemes that govern the use of our products in the international market may change, and we may be required to obtain additional marketing clearance for our products. The complexity, timeframes and costs associated with obtaining marketing clearances are unknown. 18 Table of Contents We will first need to obtain electrical safety approval to market our applicable products under development. The majority of our capital equipment products also require electrical safety testing, and in some cases, electromagnetic compatibility testing, as either a product registration or to gain market acceptance. The electrical safety testing and electromagnetic compatibility testing requirements may change and require us to redesign and retest our products. The complexity, timeframes and costs associated with potential redesign and retesting are unknown. We may not achieve our intended benefits from our significant investment in the Malis® trademark. On October 12, 2005, we acquired the Malis® trademark. The late Dr. Malis was the Professor and Chairman Emeritus of Mount Sinai School of Medicine, Department of Neurosurgery and one of Valley Forge’s former directors. The Malis® trademark is a name widely recognized and respected in the neurosurgery field. Dr. Malis licensed the Malis® trademark to Codman in connection with certain products sold by Codman to end users, which includes products that the Company sells to Codman. We paid Dr. Malis’ estate $159,904 in cash and the remainder in a $3,997,600 promissory note which will be paid in twenty-five equal quarterly installments of $159,904. We plan to deploy our sales team and existing distribution network for the introduction of an expected Malis® branded product line. It is possible that we will not be successful in effectively promoting the Malis® brand or in optimizing sales of our neurosurgical product line. The content of the promotional messages for the Malis® product platform may not sufficiently convey the merits of the products and may not be successful in convincing surgeons and hospitals to purchase Malis® products instead of products manufactured by our competitors. If any of these situations occur, we may not be able to realize the full value of our investment in the Malis® trademark. Our intellectual property rights may not be meaningful commercial protection for our products and could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies and manufacturing process, which includes the ability to obtain, protect and enforce patents on our technology and to protect our trade secrets. We own patents that cover significant aspects of our products. Certain of our patents have expired and others will expire in the future. In addition, challenges may be made to our patents and, as a result, our patents could be narrowed, invalidated or rendered unenforceable. Competitors may develop products similar to ours that our patents do not cover. In addition, our current and future patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents in the United States or foreign countries. Further, there is a substantial backlog of patent applications in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and the approval or rejection of patent applications may take several years. We may become subject to patent infringement claims or litigation or interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of invention. Our competitive position depends, in part, upon unpatented trade secrets, which are difficult to protect. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. In an effort to protect our trade secrets, we generally require certain of our employees, consultants and advisors to execute proprietary information and invention assignment agreements upon commencement of employment or consulting relationships with us. These agreements typically provide that, except in specified circumstances, all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of his or her relationship with us must be kept confidential. Some jurisdictions limit the enforceability and scope of these agreements and these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of the unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information. 19 Table of Contents We may have product liability claims, and our insurance may not cover all claims. Our products involve a risk of product liability claims. We may not be able to obtain insurance for the potential liability on acceptable terms with adequate coverage or at reasonable costs. Any potential product liability claims could exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may be excluded from coverage under the terms of the policy. Further, our insurance may not be renewed at a cost and level of coverage comparable to that then in effect. The loss of key personnel could harm our business. We believe our success depends on the contributions of a number of our key personnel, including Messrs. Scheller, Gampp and Malis, our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Scientific Officer, respectively. If we lose the services of key personnel, those losses could materially harm our business. We maintain key person life insurance of Messrs. Scheller, Gampp and Malis. If we are unable to hire, train and retain additional sales, marketing, operations, engineering and finance personnel, our growth could be impaired. To grow our business successfully and maintain a high level of quality, we will need to recruit, retain and motivate highly-skilled sales, marketing, engineering and finance personnel. If we are not able to hire, train, and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, our growth may be impaired. In particular, we will need to expand our sales and marketing organizations in order to increase market awareness of our products and to increase revenues. In addition, as a company focused on the development of complex products, we will need to hire additional engineering staff of various experience levels in order to meet our product development strategy. Competition for skilled employees is intense. We plan to expand our international sales and distribution operations, and the success of our international expansion is subject to significant uncertainties. We believe that we must expand our international sales and distribution operations to have continued growth. We expect to sell an increasing portion of our products to customers overseas. In attempting to conduct and expand business internationally, we are exposed to various risks that could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results, including: • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, including imposition of currency exchange controls; • longer accounts receivable collection cycles; • import or export licensing requirements; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • political and economic instability; • obtaining regulatory approval for our products; • end-market and/or regional competition that may have competitive advantages; • potentially reduced protection for intellectual property rights; and 20 Table of Contents • subjectivity of foreign laws. In addition, because we have suppliers that are located outside the United States, we are subject to risks generally associated with contracting with foreign suppliers and may experience problems in the timeliness and the adequacy or quality of product deliveries. The market price of our stock may be highly volatile. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including: • our ability to successfully commercialize our products; • the execution of new agreements and material changes in our relationships with companies with whom we contract; • quarterly fluctuations in results of operations; • announcements regarding technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors or the results of regulatory filings; • market reaction to trends in sales, marketing and research and development and reaction to acquisitions; • sales of common stock by existing shareholders; • economic and political condition, including worldwide geopolitical events; and • fluctuations in the United States financial markets. The trading volume for Synergetics USA common stock may be limited. Our stock is thinly traded in comparison to companies with greater market capitalization. As a result, large sale orders, negative news and general economic pressures on the stock market can have an impact on the price of our common stock that is more pronounced than securities of issues with larger listed stock volume or higher prices per share. If shareholders seek to sell their shares in a thinly traded stock, it may be difficult to obtain the price desired. A large percentage of the outstanding shares of common stock will be held by management and insiders, so the float is limited and the stock is much less liquid than larger market capitalization companies. For a period of twelve months following September 21, 2005, Messrs. Scheller, Gampp and Malis and certain of their affiliates and other significant shareholders will not be permitted to sell any shares of common stock pursuant to the terms of a shareholders’ agreement. Following the expiration of this twelve month period, such persons will be free to sell their shares, subject to such limitations as are applicable under the federal securities laws and corporate policies. Accordingly, the potential for such large blocks of shares to come to market and the actual coming to market of these shares, could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Synergetics USA has anti-takeover defenses that could delay or prevent an acquisition and could adversely affect the price of its common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in the control of our management, including transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then 21 Table of Contents current market prices. In addition, these provisions may limit the ability of our shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. Also, our board of directors is divided into three classes, as nearly equal in size as practicable, with three-year staggered terms. This provision may deter a potential acquirer from engaging in a transaction with us because it will be unable to gain control of our board of directors through at least two meetings in which directors are elected by our shareholders. Compliance with rules and regulations concerning corporate governance may be costly and time consuming. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that public companies adopt and maintain corporate governance measures and imposes comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, establishes stringent independence and financial expertise standards for boards of directors and audit committee members and contains increased civil and criminal penalties for companies, their chief executive officers and chief financial officers for securities laws violations. Moreover, public companies are required to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclose material weaknesses in such controls. Furthermore, The Nasdaq SmallCap Market, on which our common stock trades, has adopted additional rules and regulations relating to corporate governance. As Synergetics was a private company, it is unfamiliar with the magnitude and costs of complying with the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley Act and The Nasdaq Stock Market. Furthermore, certain of those directors and executive officers do not have experience in managing a public company subject to these regulations. To help address this risk, Synergetics hired Pamela G. Boone, who has public company experience, to serve as its Chief Financial Officer. Ms. Boone continues to serve as the Chief Financial Officer of Synergetics and the Company. The scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, coupled with members of management new to the public company arena, could impact results of operations and divert management’s attention from business operations. These rules and regulations may also make it more difficult and expensive to obtain directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, especially those willing to serve on the audit committee. 