Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Risks related to Our Business The medical device industry is highly competitive and subject to technological change. If our competitors are better able to develop and market products that are safer, more effective, less costly, easier to use, or are otherwise more attractive, we may be unable to compete effectively with other companies. The medical technology industry is characterized by intense competition and technology change. We compete with established medical technology companies and early stage companies that have alternative solutions for the markets we serve or intend to serve. Many of our competitors have several advantages to us; including: · access to greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing and patent litigation; · greater name recognition; · long established relationships with physicians and customers; · additional lines of products and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer greater discounts or incentives; 17 Table of Contents · more established sales and marketing programs, and distribution networks; and · greater experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, preparing regulatory submissions and obtaining regulatory clearance or approval for products and marketing approved products. Our competitive position depends on our ability to achieve market acceptance for our products, develop new products, implement production and marketing plans, secure regulatory approvals for products under development and protect our intellectual property. We may need to develop new applications for our products to remain competitive. Technological advances, including pharmacology, by one or more of our current or future competitors could render our present or future products obsolete or uneconomical. Our future success depends upon our ability to compete effectively against current technology, as well as respond effectively to technological advances, and upon our ability to successfully implement our marketing strategies and execute our R&D plan. Our products may not be accepted in the market. We cannot be certain that our current products or any other products we have or may develop or market will achieve or maintain market acceptance. We cannot be certain that our devices and the procedures they perform will be able to replace established treatments or that physicians or the medical community in general will accept and utilize our devices or any other medical products that we may develop. Market acceptance of our products depends on many factors, including our ability to: • convince key opinion leaders to provide recommendations regarding our products; • convince distributors and customers that our technology is an attractive alternative to other technologies; • manufacture products in sufficient quantities and at acceptable costs; and • supply and service sufficient quantities of our products directly or through marketing alliances. If we do not introduce new commercially successful products in a timely manner, our products may become obsolete over time, thereby decreasing our revenue and profitability. Demand for our products may change as a result of evolving customer needs, the introduction of new products and technologies, the discovery of cures for certain medical problems, including pharmacology, evolving surgical practices and evolving industry standards. Without the timely introduction of new commercially successful products and enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time causing our sales and operating results to suffer. The success of our new products will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • properly identify and anticipate customer needs; • obtain regulatory approval for new products; • achieve positive clinical outcomes; • commercialize new products in a cost-effective and timely manner; • manufacture and deliver products in sufficient volumes on time; • differentiate our products from those of our competitors; 18 Table of Contents • satisfy the increased demands by health care payers, providers and patients for lower-cost procedures and shorter hospital stays and recovery times; • innovate and develop product designs and surgical techniques; and • provide adequate medical and/or customer education relating to new products and attract key surgeons to advocate these new products. New products and enhancements usually require a substantial investment in R&D before we can determine the viability of the product. We spent 6.1 percent of our sales on R&D during the fiscal year ended July 31, 2012 and we expect to spend similar amounts for this purpose in future periods. Our R&D process entails considerable uncertainty. Moreover, new products and enhancements may not produce revenues in excess of the R&D costs, and they may become obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of new technologies or features. Failure to develop our manufacturing capability may mean that even if we develop promising new products, we may not be able to produce them profitably, as a result of delays and additional capital investment costs. A significant part of our product sales comes from two customers, which makes us vulnerable to the loss of those customers. During the fiscal year ended July 31, 2012, revenue from sales of our bipolar electrosurgical generators, disposable bipolar forceps, cord tubing sets, exclusivity and royalty payments from Codman represented approximately 18.6 percent of the Company’s total net sales. Under our existing agreement with Codman, they distribute the electrosurgical generators on an exclusive basis. Our existing agreement with Codman expired on December 31, 2011 and was renewed for an additional three-year period. We continue to develop new generators and additions to the disposable bipolar forceps line for Codman which will expand their reach to additional markets. In addition, revenue from the sales of our pain control generators, the ultrasonic aspirator tips and accessories by Stryker accounted for 17.3 percent of the Company’s total net sales for fiscal 2012. Under our existing agreements with Stryker, they distribute the pain control generator and ultrasonic aspirator tips on an exclusive basis. The pain control generator agreement expires on October 31, 2012, and the ultrasonic aspirator tip agreement expires on March 31, 2016. We continue to develop new ultrasonic tips for Stryker which will expand their reach to additional markets. Our international operations subject us to certain operating risks, which could adversely impact our net sales, results of operations and financial condition. Sales of our products outside the U.S. represent approximately 27 percent of our revenue in 2012. As of July 31, 2012, we sell our products through five direct sales organizations in Canada, Australia, France, Italy and Germany. In addition, we have over 50 independent distributors in over 60 countries. The results of operations and the financial position of certain of our foreign operations are reported in the relevant local currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements, exposing us to translation risk. Our most significant currency exposures are to the Canadian dollar and the euro. The exchange rates between these and other local currencies and the U.S. dollar may fluctuate substantially. We have not attempted to offset our exposure to these risks by investing in derivatives or engaging in hedging activities. The sales of our products across international borders subject us to extensive U.S. and foreign government trade, import, export and custom regulations and laws. Compliance with these regulations is costly and may expose us to penalties for non-compliance. Other laws and regulations that can significantly impact us are various anti-bribery laws including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-boycott laws. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments, restrictions of certain business activities and exclusion or debarment from government contracting. Also, the failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of our shipping and sales activities. 19 Table of Contents In addition, many countries in which we sell our products are, to some degree, subject to political, economic or social instability. Our international operations expose us and our distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include: • shortage of high-quality sales personnel and distributors; • the ability of our independent distributors to sell our products; • pricing pressure from local and regional competitors; • difficulties in enforcing or defending our intellectual property rights; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and foreign currency translation adjustments; • unexpected changes in international or local market regulatory requirements, including imposition of currency exchange controls; • longer accounts receivable collection cycles; • import or export licensing requirements; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • political and economic instability; • obtaining regulatory approvals for our products; • end-market and/or regional competition that may have competitive advantages; • potentially reduced protection for intellectual property rights; and • subjectivity of non-U.S. laws. We may face manufacturing and quality control challenges which could impact our competitive advantage. The manufacturing of our surgical equipment and disposable accessories is a highly complex and precise process. We assemble critical components and sub-assemblies and substantially all our final products at our facilities in O’Fallon, Missouri and King of Prussia, Pennsylvania. We may experience manufacturing difficulties, quality control support or manufacturing constraints particularly with regards to new products and increased production demands. If our sales increase substantially, we may need to increase our production and quality control capacity and may not be able to do so in a timely, effective, or cost efficient manner. We may not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products which may require us to qualify other manufacturers of our products. Furthermore, we may experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations and as a result, product shipments to our customers could be delayed, which would negatively impact our net sales. If any of our single source or limited source suppliers were to cease providing components, we may not be able to produce certain products. Our products are assembled from raw materials and components supplied to us by third parties. Most of the raw materials and components used in the manufacturing of our products are available from more than one supplier. For some components, there are relatively few alternate sources of supply. However, we rely upon single source suppliers or contract manufacturers for a portion of our disposable product line and for several key components of our PhotonTM light sources, our VersaVITTM vitrectomy system and our electrosurgical generators. Our profit margins and our ability to develop and deliver products on a timely basis may be adversely affected by the lack of alternative supply in the required timeframe. 20 Table of Contents There are risks associated with the use of independent manufacturers including unavailability, shortage or limitations on the ability to obtain supplies of components in the quantities we require, delays in delivery or failure of suppliers to deliver critical components on the dates we require, failure of suppliers to manufacture our components to our specifications and potentially reduced quality and inability to obtain components at acceptable prices. In addition, these suppliers must also adhere to the FDA’s rigorous manufacturing standards. The loss of key personnel or failure to integrate replacement personnel could harm our business. Our future success depends upon the continued service of key management, technical sales and other critical personnel, including Messrs. Hable, Malis, Fanning and Stroisch and Ms. Boone, our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Scientific Officer, our Vice President of Domestic Sales, our Vice President of Marketing and Technology and our Chief Financial Officer, respectively. We maintain key person life insurance for Messrs. Hable and Malis and Ms. Boone. Our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. The loss of any key employee could result in a disruption to our operations and could materially harm our business. In addition, the integration of replacement personnel could be time consuming, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful. Our operating results may fluctuate. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to fluctuate from time to time in the future. Some of the factors that may cause these fluctuations include, but are not limited to: • general economic uncertainties and political concerns; • timing of customer capital availability and customer budgets for general expenditures; • receipt of necessary regulatory approvals; • the introduction of new products or product lines; • product modifications; • the level of market acceptance of new products; • the timing of R&D and other expenditures; • timing of the receipt of orders from, and product shipments to, distributors and customers; • changes in the distribution arrangements for our products; • manufacturing or supply delays; • the time needed to educate and train additional sales and manufacturing personnel; • costs associated with product introductions; • costs associated with defending our intellectual property; and • product returns. 21 Table of Contents We may have product liability claims, and our insurance may not cover all claims. The development, manufacture, sale and use of medical products entail significant risk of product liability claims. We maintain product liability coverage at levels we have determined are reasonable. We cannot assure you that such coverage limits are adequate to protect us from any liabilities we might incur in connection with the development, manufacture, sale or use of our products. In addition, we may require increased product liability coverage as our sales increase in their current applications and new applications. Product liability insurance is expensive and in the future may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage could adversely affect our business. Efforts to acquire additional companies or product lines may consume managerial resources and we may incur or assume additional liabilities or experience integration problems. We seek to acquire additional businesses or product lines for strategic reasons, including adding new products, new customers and increasing penetration with existing customers, adding new manufacturing capabilities or expanding into new geographic markets. Our ability to successfully grow through additional acquisitions depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions and to obtain any necessary financing. If we were to complete additional acquisitions, we may also experience: • difficulties integrating any acquired products into our existing business; • delays in realizing the benefits of the acquired products; or • diversion of our management’s time and attention to ongoing business. If our facilities were to experience catastrophic loss, our operations would be seriously harmed. Our facilities could be subject to catastrophic loss such as fire, flood, tornados or earthquake. A substantial portion of our R&D and manufacturing activities, our corporate headquarters and other critical business operations are located in O’Fallon, Missouri near a major fault line which could result in an earthquake. We maintain property and business interruption coverages at levels we have determined are reasonable. Any such loss at any of our facilities could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expense to repair and replace our facilities. Risks related to Our Financial Condition We are subject to credit risk from our accounts receivable related to our product sales, which include sales within European countries that are currently experiencing economic turmoil. The majority of our accounts receivable arise from product sales in the U.S. Our accounts receivable in the U.S. are primarily due from marketing partners, public and private hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers. However, we also have receivable balances from customers within the European Union, Canada, Japan, Russia and Brazil. Our accounts receivable outside the U.S. are due from independent distributors and, to a lesser extent, public and private hospitals. Our historic write-offs of accounts receivable have not been significant. We monitor the financial performance and creditworthiness of our customers so that we can properly assess and respond to changes in their credit profile. Our independent distributors operate in Spain, Italy and Greece, where economic conditions continue to present challenges to our independent distributors’ businesses, and thus, could place at risk the amount due to us from them. Our cash maintained with a bank may not be fully insured. We maintain significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents at a financial institution that is in excess of federally insured limits. Given the current instability of financial institutions, we cannot be assured that we will not experience losses on these deposits. 22 Table of Contents Risks related to the Regulation of our Industry The recent U.S. healthcare reform legislation and other healthcare regulatory changes could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act were enacted into law in March 2010. Among other initiatives, this legislation imposes a 2.3 percent excise tax on domestic sales of class I, II and III medical devices beginning in January 2013. Substantially all of our products are class I and II medical devices. Approximately 73 percent of fiscal 2012 sales were derived in the U.S.; the inability to offset this tax could have a material impact on results of operations. The law also focuses on a number of Medicare provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs, though we are not certain of the impact that these provisions will have on patient access to new technologies and medical procedures. We cannot predict if any additional regulations will be implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect of any future legislation or regulation in the U.S. or internationally. However, any changes that lower reimbursement for our products or reduce medical procedures volumes could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our industry is experiencing greater scrutiny and regulation by governmental authorities, which may lead to greater governmental regulation in the future. Medical device companies are subject to rigorous regulation, including by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. These authorities and members of the United States Congress have been increasing their scrutiny of our industry. In addition, certain states have recently passed or are considering legislation restricting our interactions with health care providers and requiring disclosure of payments to them. Also, while recent case law has clarified that the FDA’s authority over medical devices preempts state tort laws, legislation has been introduced at the federal level to allow state intervention. We anticipate that the government will continue to closely scrutinize our industry, and additional regulations by governmental authorities may increase compliance costs, exposure to litigation and other adverse effects to our operations. Delays in the receipt or failure to receive regulatory clearances or approvals, the loss of previously received clearances or approvals, or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. Our R&D activities and the manufacturing, labeling, distribution and marketing of our existing and future products are subject to regulation by governmental agencies in the United States and in other countries. The FDA and comparable agencies in other countries impose mandatory procedures and standards for the conduct of clinical trials and the production and marketing of products for diagnostic and human therapeutic use. Products under development are subject to FDA approval or clearance prior to commercial use. The process of obtaining necessary FDA approvals or clearances is not only costly but can potentially take years and the outcome may be uncertain. Our inability to obtain required regulatory approval or clearance in a timely manner could harm our business. Further, approval or clearance may place substantial restrictions on the indications for which the product may be marketed or to whom it may be marketed. Additional studies may be required to gain approval or clearance for the use of a product for clinical indications other than those for which the product was initially approved or cleared or for significant changes to the product. Furthermore, an additional risk relates to the regulatory classification of new products or proposed new uses for existing products. With each application, we are required to make a judgment about the appropriate form and content of the application. If the FDA disagrees with our judgment in any particular case and, for example, requires us to file a PMA rather than allowing us to market for approved uses while we seek broader approvals or requires extensive additional clinical data, the time and expense required to obtain the approval might be significantly increased or approval might not be granted. Approved and cleared products are subject to continuing FDA requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, maintenance of records, reporting of adverse events and product recalls, documentation and labeling and promotion of medical devices. 23 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain necessary clearances or approvals to market any new products, or existing products for new intended uses, on a timely basis, if at all. We may be subject to penalties and may be precluded from marketing our products if we fail to comply with extensive governmental regulations. The FDA and non-U.S. regulatory authorities require that our products be manufactured according to rigorous standards. These regulatory requirements may significantly increase our production costs and may even prevent us from making our products in amounts sufficient to meet market demand. If we change our approved manufacturing process, the FDA may need to review the process before it may be used. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements discussed throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K could subject us to enforcement actions, including: • warning letters; • fines, injunctions and civil penalties against us; • recall or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of our production; • refusing our requests for premarket clearance or approval of new products; • withdrawing product approvals already granted; and • criminal prosecution. Federal, state and non-U.S. regulations, regarding the manufacture and sale of medical devices are subject to future changes. The complexity, timeframes and costs associated with obtaining marketing clearances are unknown. Although we cannot predict the impact, if any, these changes might have on our business, the impact could be material. Our intellectual property rights may not provide meaningful commercial protection for our products, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies and manufacturing processes, which includes the ability to obtain, protect and enforce patents on our technology and to protect our trade secrets. We own patents that cover significant aspects of our products. Certain patents of ours have expired and others will expire in the future. In addition, challenges may be made to our patents and, as a result, our patents could be narrowed, invalidated or rendered unenforceable. Competitors may develop products similar to ours that our patents do not cover. In addition, our current and future patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents in the United States or non-U.S. countries. Further, there is a substantial backlog of patent applications in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”), and the approval or rejection of patent applications may take several years. We may become subject to patent infringement claims or litigation or interference proceedings declared by the U.S. PTO to determine the priority of invention. Our competitive position depends, in part, upon unpatented trade secrets, which can be difficult to protect. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or gain access to our trade secrets. In an effort to protect our trade secrets, we require consultants, advisors and most of our employees to execute confidentiality agreements and certain of them to sign invention assignment agreements upon commencement of employment or a consulting relationship with us. These agreements typically provide that, except in specified circumstances, all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of his or her relationship with us must be kept confidential. They typically contain provisions requiring these individuals to assign to us, without additional consideration, any inventions conceived or reduced to practice by them while employed or retained by us, subject to customary exceptions. Some jurisdictions limit the enforceability and scope of these agreements and these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of the unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information. 24 Table of Contents The intellectual property rights of others may adversely affect our ability to introduce new products or continue to sell existing products. The medical device industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Companies in the medical device industry have employed intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Numerous patents are held by others, including academic institutions and our competitors. Until recently, patent applications were maintained in secrecy in the United States until after the time the patent had been issued. Patent applications filed in the United States after November 2000 generally will be published 18 months after the filing date. However, since patent applications continue to be maintained in secrecy for at least some period of time, we cannot assure you that our technology does not infringe any patents, patent applications held by third parties or prior patents. We have, from time to time, been notified of, or have otherwise been made aware of, claims that we are infringing upon patents or other proprietary intellectual property owned by others. If it appears necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under such patents or proprietary intellectual property. Although patent holders may offer such licenses, licenses under such patents or intellectual property may not be offered or the terms of any offered licenses may not be reasonable. Any infringement claims, with or without merit, and regardless of whether we are successful on the merits, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, cause shipment delays or require us to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. An adverse determination could prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price of our stock may be highly volatile. Our stock price has fluctuated widely. It ranged from $3.30 to $7.55 per share during the year ended July 31, 2012. Our stock price could continue to experience significant fluctuations in response to certain factors such as: • our ability to successfully commercialize our products; • the execution of new agreements and material changes in our relationships with companies with whom we contract; • quarterly fluctuations in results of operations; • announcements regarding technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors or the results of regulatory filings; • market reaction to trends in sales, marketing and R&D and reaction to acquisitions; • sales of common stock by existing shareholders; • changes in key personnel; • economic and political conditions, including worldwide geopolitical events; and • fluctuations in the United States financial markets. 25 Table of Contents Synergetics USA has anti-takeover defenses that could delay or prevent an acquisition and could adversely affect the price of its common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in the control of the Company, including transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. In addition, these provisions may limit the ability of our shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. Also, our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, as nearly equal in size as practicable, with three-year staggered terms. This provision may deter a potential acquirer from engaging in a transaction with us because it will be unable to gain control of our Board of Directors until at least two annual meetings have been held in which directors are elected by our shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 