Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Risks related to Our Business The medical device industry is highly competitive and subject to technological change. If our competitors are better able to develop and market products that are safer, more effective, less costly, easier to use, or are otherwise more attractive, we may be unable to compete effectively with other companies. The medical technology industry is characterized by intense competition and technology change. We compete with established medical technology companies and early stage companies that have alternative solutions for the markets we serve or intend to serve. Many of our competitors have several advantages over us; including: · access to greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing and patent litigation; · greater name recognition; · long established relationships with physicians and customers; · additional lines of products and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer greater discounts or incentives; · more established sales and marketing programs, and distribution networks; and · greater experience in conducting R&D, manufacturing, preparing regulatory submissions and obtaining regulatory clearance or approval for products and marketing approved products. 15 Table of Contents Our competitive position depends on multiple, complex factors, including our ability to achieve market acceptance for our products, develop new products, implement production and marketing plans, secure regulatory approvals for products under development and protect our intellectual property. We may need to develop new applications for our products to remain competitive. Technological advances outside of our field, such as in pharmacology, by one or more of our current or future competitors could render our present or future products obsolete or uneconomical. Our future success depends, among other things, upon our ability to compete effectively against current technology, as well as to respond effectively to technological advances, and upon our ability to successfully implement our marketing strategies and execute our R&D plan. In addition, our VersaVIT 2.0TM is complex in design and the manufacturing involves a highly complex and precise process. As a result of the technical complexity, changes in our or our suppliers’ manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective materials by us or our suppliers could result in a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields and product reliability. To the extent that we do not achieve such yields or product reliability, our business, operating results, financial condition and customer relationships would be adversely affected. Our products may not be accepted in the market. We cannot be certain that our current products or any other products we have or may develop or market will achieve or maintain market acceptance. We cannot be certain that our devices and the procedures they perform will be able to replace established treatments or that physicians or the medical community in general will accept and utilize our devices or any other medical products that we may develop. Market acceptance of our products depends on many factors, including our ability to: • convince key opinion leaders to provide recommendations regarding our products; • convince distributors and customers that our technology is an attractive alternative to other technologies; • price our products competitively in light of the current macroeconomic environment where healthcare systems and healthcare operators are becoming increasingly price sensitive; • manufacture products in sufficient quantities; and • supply and service sufficient quantities of our products directly or through marketing alliances. If we do not introduce new commercially successful products in a timely manner, our products may become obsolete over time, thereby decreasing our revenue and profitability. Demand for our products may change as a result of evolving customer needs, the introduction of new products and technologies, the discovery of cures for certain medical problems, including pharmacology technologies and discoveries, evolving surgical practices and evolving industry standards. Without the timely introduction of new commercially successful products and enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time causing our sales and operating results to suffer. The success of our new products will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • properly identify and anticipate customer needs; • obtain regulatory approval for new products; • achieve positive clinical outcomes; • commercialize new products in a cost-effective and timely manner; • manufacture and deliver products in sufficient volumes on time; • differentiate our products from those of our competitors; • satisfy the increased demands by health care payers, providers and patients for lower-cost procedures and shorter hospital stays and recovery times; • innovate and develop product designs and surgical techniques; and • provide adequate medical and/or customer education relating to new products and attract key surgeons to advocate these new products. 16 Table of Contents New products and enhancements usually require a substantial investment in R&D before we can determine the viability of the product. We currently have 24 active projects in the development pipeline. We spent approximately 8.0 percent of our sales on R&D during the fiscal year ended July 31, 2014, and we expect to spend 6 to 8 percent of our sales for this purpose in future periods. Our R&D process entails considerable uncertainty. Moreover, new products and enhancements may not produce revenues in excess of the R&D costs, and they may become obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of new technologies or features. Failure to develop our manufacturing capability may mean that even if we develop promising new products, we may not be able to produce them profitably, as a result of delays and additional capital investment costs. Any failure in our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products or enhanced versions of existing products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and would cause our net revenues to decline. A significant part of our product sales comes from two customers, which makes us vulnerable to the loss of those customers. During the fiscal year ended July 31, 2014, revenue from sales of our bipolar electrosurgical generators, disposable bipolar forceps, cord tubing sets and royalty payments from Codman represented approximately 23.4 percent of the Company’s total net sales. Under our existing agreement with Codman, it distributes all contract products on an exclusive basis and has exclusive rights to distribute all monopolar and bipolar generators for use in neurocranial and neurospinal surgery. The initial term of our existing agreement with Codman expired on December 31, 2011, after which the agreement entered into a single, automatic, three-year renewal term. The agreement expires on December 31, 2014. We continue to enhance the contract products and to develop new additions to the disposable bipolar forceps line for Codman which we expect will expand their reach to additional markets. In addition, revenue from the sales of our pain control generators, the ultrasonic aspirator tips and accessories sold by Stryker accounted for 16.6 percent of the Company’s total net sales for fiscal 2014. Under our existing agreements with Stryker, it distributes the pain control generator and ultrasonic aspirator tips on an exclusive basis. The pain control generator agreement expires on June 30, 2015, and the ultrasonic aspirator tip agreement expires on March 31, 2016. We continue to develop new ultrasonic aspirator tips with Stryker which we expect will expand their reach to additional markets. Our King of Prussia closure plan exposes us to risk, and we may not realize the expected benefits. Transferring manufacturing of medical devices is more expensive, time-consuming and riskier than similar transfers in less regulated industries. Regulatory approval to sell our products is generally limited to the current manufacturing site, and changing the site requires the approval from regulatory bodies and our OEM partners prior to commercialization. To satisfy our own quality standards as well as comply with applicable regulations, we must follow strict protocols to confirm that products made at a new site are equivalent to those made at the currently approved site. Even minor changes in equipment, supplies or processes require validation. While we have placed a priority on maintaining the continuity and quality of product supply, including increasing our inventory as safety stock during the closure, unanticipated delays or difficulties in the transfer process could interrupt our supply of products. In fiscal 2014, we have expended $682,000 on the closure plan. The goal of the project is to increase our operating margins by $1.1 million on an annualized basis beginning in fiscal 2016. We cannot assure that we will achieve the expected benefits of this initiative. Our international operations subject us to certain operating risks, which could adversely impact our net sales, results of operations and financial condition. Sales of our products outside the U.S. represented approximately 25 percent of our revenue in 2014. Many of the products we sell to our OEM customers in the U.S. are subsequently shipped to their non-U.S. customers in various countries around the world, but revenue attributable to these sales is included in our domestic revenues. As of July 31, 2014, we sell our ophthalmic products outside the U.S. through five direct sales organizations in Australia, France, Germany, Italy and the United Kingdom, after our acquisition of M.I.S.S. on July 8, 2013. The results of operations and the financial position of certain of our foreign operations are reported in the relevant local currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements, exposing us to translation risk. Our most significant currency exposures are to the Great Britain Pound (“GBP”) and the euro. The exchange rates between the GBP and the euro in comparison to the U.S. dollar may fluctuate substantially. We have not attempted to offset our exposure to these risks by investing in derivatives or engaging in hedging activities. 17 Table of Contents In addition to our direct sales outside the U.S., we have over 80 independent distributors selling our products in over 50 countries. The sales of our products across international borders subject us to extensive U.S. and foreign government trade, import, export and custom regulations and laws. Compliance with these regulations is costly and may expose us to penalties for non-compliance. Other laws and regulations that can significantly impact us are various anti-bribery laws including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and anti-boycott laws. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments, restrictions of certain business activities and exclusion or debarment from government contracting. Also, the failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in delays and other disruptions of our shipping and sales activities. In addition, many countries in which we sell our products are, to some degree, subject to political, economic or social instability. Our international operations expose us and our distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include: • changes in foreign medical reimbursement and coverage policies and programs; • cultural differences; • shortage of high-quality sales personnel and distributors; • the ability and motivation of our independent distributors to sell our products; • pricing pressure from local and regional competitors; • foreign certification requirements, including the ability to use the “CE” mark in Europe, and other local regulatory requirements; • difficulties in enforcing or defending our intellectual property rights; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and foreign currency translation adjustments; • unexpected changes in international or local market regulatory requirements, including imposition of currency exchange controls; • longer accounts receivable collection cycles; • import or export licensing requirements; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • political and economic instability; • obtaining regulatory approvals for our products; • end-market and/or regional competition that may have competitive advantages; and • subjectivity of foreign laws. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may reduce the reported value of our foreign currency revenues, net of expenses and cash flows. We cannot predict changes in currency exchange rates, the impact of exchange rate changes, nor the degree to which we will be able to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes. Worldwide macroeconomic slowdowns and related uncertainties could adversely affect our revenues, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to macro-economic fluctuations in the U.S. and worldwide economy. We may be impacted by general economic conditions and factors over which we have no control, such as changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency rates, lack of liquidity in certain markets and volatility in capital markets. Concerns about consumer and investor confidence, volatile corporate profits and reduced capital spending, international conflicts, terrorist and military activity, civil unrest and pandemic illness could reduce customer orders or cause customer order cancellations. In addition, political and social turmoil related to international conflicts and terrorist acts may put further pressure on economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad. 18 Table of Contents Weak economic conditions and declines in consumer spending and consumption may harm our operating results. During uncertain economic times, customers or potential customers may delay or reduce their purchases of our products, which may impact our business in a numbers of ways: · lower prices for our products; · reducing or delaying sales; · insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; and · delays in customer payments of outstanding accounts receivables. We may face manufacturing and quality control challenges which could impact our competitive advantage. The manufacturing of our surgical equipment and disposable accessories is a highly complex and precise process. We assemble critical components and sub-assemblies and substantially all our final products at our facilities in O’Fallon, Missouri and King of Prussia, Pennsylvania. We are in process of transitioning this manufacturing to O’Fallon, Missouri which we believe will be completed by mid-fiscal 2015. We may experience manufacturing difficulties, quality control issues or manufacturing constraints, particularly with regards to new products and increased production demands. If our sales increase substantially, we may need to increase our production and quality control capacity and may not be able to do so in a timely, effective or cost efficient manner. We may not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products which may require us to qualify other manufacturers of our products. Furthermore, we may experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations and as a result, product shipments to our customers could be delayed, which would negatively impact our net sales. Also, we may overestimate the demand for our product leading to excess inventory, which would increase our inventory carrying costs and increase the risk of inventory write-downs. Any of these occurrences would negatively impact our business and operating results. In addition, quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure. Our quality certifications are critical to the marketing success of our products. If we fail to meet these standards, our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers and our revenue and results of operations could decline. If any of our single source or limited source suppliers were to cease providing components, we may not be able to produce certain products. Our products are assembled from raw materials and components supplied to us by third parties. Most of the raw materials and components used in the manufacturing of our products are available from more than one supplier. For some components, there are relatively few alternate sources of supply. However, we rely upon single source suppliers or contract manufacturers for a portion of our disposable product lines and for several key components of our PhotonTM light sources, our VersaVIT 2.0TM vitrectomy system and our electrosurgical generators. In addition, these suppliers must also adhere to the FDA’s rigorous manufacturing standards. Our profit margins and our ability to develop and deliver products on a timely basis may be adversely affected by the lack of alternative supply in the required timeframe. There are risks associated with the use of independent manufacturers including: · unavailability of, shortage of or limitations on the ability to obtain supplies of components in the quantities we require; · delays in delivery or failure of suppliers to deliver critical components on the dates we require; · failure of suppliers to manufacture our components to our specifications; and · potentially reduced quality and inability to obtain components at acceptable prices. 19 Table of Contents Pursuant to the conflict minerals requirements promulgated by the SEC as part of Dodd-Frank Act, we are required to track and disclose the source of any conflict minerals used in our products, as well as the process we use to determine the source of such materials. We are required to carry out a diligent effort to determine and disclose the source of these materials. There can be no assurance we can obtain this information from intermediate producers who are unwilling or unable to provide this information or further identify their sources of supply or to notify us if these sources change. We may incur expenses as we work with our suppliers to evaluate the source of any conflict minerals in our products, and compliance with these requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of our raw materials. The loss of key personnel or failure to integrate replacement personnel could harm our business. Our future success depends upon the continued service of key management, technical sales and other critical personnel, including Messrs. Hable, Fanning and Stroisch and Ms. Boone, our Chief Executive Officer, our Vice President of Domestic Sales, our Vice President of Marketing and Technology, and our Chief Financial Officer, respectively. We maintain key person life insurance for Mr. Hable and Ms. Boone. Our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. The loss of any key employee could result in a disruption to our operations and could materially harm our business. In addition, the integration of replacement personnel could be time consuming, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful. Our operating results may fluctuate. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to fluctuate from time to time in the future. Some of the factors that may cause these fluctuations include, but are not limited to: • general economic uncertainties and political concerns; • changes in demand for our base ophthalmology and neurosurgery products; • changes in customer capital availability and customer budgets as a result of, among other things, reimbursement policies of government programs and private insurers for treatments that use our products; • receipt of necessary regulatory approvals; • the introduction of new products or product lines; • product modifications; • the level of market acceptance of new products; • the timing of R&D and other expenditures; • timing of the receipt of orders from, and product shipments to, distributors and customers; • changes in the distribution arrangements for our products; • manufacturing or supply delays, including the ability of our sole or limited source suppliers to timely deliver components at the times and prices that we have planned; • the time needed to educate and train additional sales and manufacturing personnel; • increased costs associated with product introductions; • costs associated with defending our intellectual property; and • product returns from customers. In addition to these factors, current expenditures are based, in part, on expected future sales. If sales levels in a particular quarter do not meet expectations, we may be unable to adjust operating expenses quickly enough to compensate for the shortfall of sales, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. We have historically made a significant portion of each quarter’s product shipments near the end of such quarter. If we experience decreasing prices for our products and we are unable to reduce our expenses proportionally, our results of operations will suffer. We may experience decreasing prices for our goods and services due to pricing pressure experienced by our customers from managed care organizations and third-party payers, increased market power of our customers as the medical device industry consolidates and increased competition among medical engineering and manufacturing service providers. If the prices for our products decrease and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our results of operations will be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents We may have product liability claims, and our insurance may not cover all claims. The development, manufacture, sale and use of medical products entail significant risk of product liability claims. We maintain product liability coverage at levels we have determined are reasonable. We cannot assure you that such coverage limits are adequate to protect us from any liabilities we might incur in connection with the development, manufacture, sale or use of our products. In addition, we may require increased product liability coverage as our sales increase in their current product applications and new applications, and with respect to new products. Product liability insurance is expensive and in the future may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage could adversely affect our business. Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other harmful consequences that may adversely impact our business and results of operations. Acquisitions are an important element of our overall corporate strategy and use of capital, and these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. We expect to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions regarding a wide array of potential strategic transactions. The process of integrating an acquired company, business, or technology may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The areas where we face risks include: • Diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to acquisition integration challenges; • Failure to successfully further develop the acquired business or technology; • Implementation or remediation of controls, procedures, and policies at the acquired company; • Integration of the acquired company’s accounting, human resource, and other administrative systems, and coordination of product, engineering, and sales and marketing functions; • Transition of operations, users, and customers onto our existing platforms; • Failure to obtain required approvals on a timely basis, if at all, from governmental authorities, or conditions placed upon approval, which could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, or otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition; • In the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; • Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization, and retention of employees from the businesses we acquire; • Liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including patent and trademark infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, product liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; and • Litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders, or other third parties. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions, incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business generally. Our acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses, or impairment of goodwill and purchased long-lived assets, and restructuring charges, any of which could harm our financial condition or results. Also, the anticipated benefit of many of our acquisitions may not materialize. 21 Table of Contents If our facilities were to experience catastrophic loss, our operations would be seriously harmed. Our facilities could be subject to catastrophic loss such as fire, flood, tornados or earthquake. A substantial portion of our R&D and manufacturing activities, our corporate headquarters and other critical business operations are located in O’Fallon, Missouri and California near major fault lines which could experience an earthquake. We maintain property and business interruption insurance coverage at levels we have determined are reasonable. Any such loss at any of our facilities could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair and replace our facilities. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data center and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disrupt our operations and harm our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, revenues and competitive position. Risks related to Our Financial Condition We are subject to credit risk from our accounts receivable related to our product sales, which include sales within European and emerging market countries that are currently experiencing economic turmoil. The majority of our accounts receivable arise from product sales in the U.S. Our accounts receivable in the U.S. are primarily due from OEM partners, public and private hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers. However, we also have receivable balances from customers within the European Union, Turkey, Canada, Japan, Russia and Brazil. Our accounts receivable outside the U.S. are due from independent distributors and, to a lesser extent, public and private hospitals. Our historic write-offs of accounts receivable have not been significant. We monitor the financial performance and creditworthiness of our customers so that we can properly assess and respond to changes in their credit profile. Our independent distributors operate in Spain, Italy and Greece, among other countries, where economic conditions continue to present challenges to our independent distributors’ businesses, and thus, could place at risk the amount due to us from them. Our cash maintained with a bank may not be fully insured. We maintain significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents at a financial institution that is in excess of federally insured limits. Given the current instability of financial institutions, we cannot be assured that we will not experience losses on these deposits. We have significant goodwill and other intangible assets and potential impairment of goodwill and other intangibles may significantly impact our profitability. Goodwill and intangible assets represent a significant portion of our total assets. Finite-lived intangibles assets are subject to an impairment analysis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles assets are tested annually for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. If an impairment exists, we would be required to take an impairment charge with respect to the impaired asset. Events giving rise to impairment are difficult to predict and are an inherent risk in the medical device industry. As a result of the significance of goodwill and intangible assets, our financial condition and results of operations in a future period could be negatively impacted should such an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets occur. 22 Table of Contents Risks related to the Regulation of our Industry Uncertainty regarding U.S. healthcare reform measures, other healthcare regulatory changes and changes in third-party coverage and reimbursement policies could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as modified by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act were enacted into law in March 2010. Certain provisions of the law will not be effective for a number of years, and there are many programs and requirements for which the details have not yet been fully established or consequences not fully understood. It is unclear what the full impacts will be from the law. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act imposes an excise tax on domestic sales of class I, II and III medical devices at the rate of 2.3 percent of sales revenue, for which medical device manufacturers became liable beginning in January 2013. Substantially all of our products are class I and II medical devices. The inability to offset this tax could have a material impact on results of operations. The law also focuses on a number of Medicare provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs, though we are not certain of the impact that these provisions will have on patient access to new technologies and medical procedures. Additional changes in government legislation or regulation, or changes in private third-party payers’ policies toward reimbursement for procedures employing our products, may prohibit adequate reimbursement. There have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system, reduce the cost of healthcare and change medical reimbursement policies. Further proposed legislation or regulation and policy changes affecting third-party reimbursement are likely. We cannot predict what legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future, or what the effect of such legislation or regulation may have on us. However, any changes that lower reimbursement for our products or reduce medical procedure volumes could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our industry is experiencing greater scrutiny and regulation by governmental authorities, which may lead to greater governmental regulation in the future. Medical device companies are subject to rigorous regulation, including by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. These authorities and members of the United States Congress have been increasing their scrutiny of our industry. In addition, certain states have recently passed or are considering legislation restricting our interactions with health care providers and requiring disclosure of payments to them. As a result, the Physician Payment Sunshine Act enacted in 2010 imposes reporting and disclosure requirements on device and drug manufacturers for any “transfers of value” made or distributed to health care providers licensed by certain states and, starting with payments or other transfers of value made on or after August 1, 2013, to all U.S. physicians and U.S. teaching hospitals at the federal level. Failure to submit this required information may result in significant civil monetary penalties. While we have developed corporate compliance programs based on what we believe to be current best practices, we cannot assure you that we or our employees or agents are or will be in compliance with all applicable federal, state or foreign regulations and laws. We anticipate that the various governments will continue to closely scrutinize our industry, and additional regulations by governmental authorities may increase compliance costs, exposure to litigation and other adverse effects to our operations. 23 Table of Contents Delays in the receipt of or our failure to receive regulatory clearances or approvals, the loss of previously received clearances or approvals, or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. Our R&D activities and the manufacturing, labeling, distribution and marketing of our existing and future products are subject to regulation by governmental agencies in the United States and in other countries. The FDA and comparable agencies in other countries impose mandatory procedures and standards for the conduct of clinical trials and the production and marketing of products for medical diagnostic and therapeutic use. Products under development are subject to FDA approval or clearance prior to commercial use. The process of obtaining necessary FDA approvals or clearances is not only costly, but can potentially take years and the outcome may be uncertain. Our inability to obtain required regulatory approval or clearance in a timely manner could harm our business. Further, approval or clearance may place substantial restrictions on the indications for which the product may be marketed or to whom it may be marketed. Additional studies may be required to gain approval or clearance for the use of a product for clinical indications other than those for which the product was initially approved or cleared or for changes to the product. Furthermore, an additional risk relates to the regulatory classification of new products or proposed new uses for existing products. With each application, we are required to make a judgment about the appropriate form and content of the application. If the FDA disagrees with our judgment in any particular case and, for example, requires us to file a premarket approval application rather than a Section 510(k) premarket notification or requires clinical data be added to our application, the time and expense required to obtain the approval might be significantly increased and approval may become less likely. Once approved or cleared for marketing, our products are subject to continuing FDA requirements, such as those relating to quality control and quality assurance, maintenance of records, reporting of adverse events and product recalls, documentation and labeling and restrictions on promotion of medical devices. Failure to precisely follow any of these requirements may lead to unanticipated costs of remediation, a product recall and/or an order to cease production and sales of a product. A recall could divert management’s attention, cause us to incur significant expenses, harm our reputation with customers and negatively affect our future net sales. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain necessary clearances or approvals to market any new products, or to market existing products for new intended uses, on a timely basis, if at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to market existing products without interruption due to regulatory oversight. Moreover, for the majority of our non-direct, foreign sales, our distributors assist with and control regulatory approval or clearance for product marketing. We cannot be certain that such approvals or clearances are actually effective. Nor can we be assured that approval or clearance for product marketing in any given country would continue to be effective for any distributor other than our current distributor in that same country, if any of our current distributors cease to distribute our products. A change in our distributor in any country could lead to delays in continued sales in that country while regulatory approval or clearances are sought to be renewed. Such a delay could have significant impacts on our net sales outside the U.S. We may be subject to penalties and may be precluded from marketing our products if we fail to comply with extensive governmental regulations. The FDA and non-U.S. regulatory authorities require that our products be manufactured according to rigorous standards. These regulatory requirements may significantly increase our production costs and may even prevent us from making our products in amounts sufficient to meet market demand. If we change our approved manufacturing process, the FDA may need to review the process before it may be used. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements discussed could subject us to enforcement actions, including: • warning letters; • fines, injunctions and civil penalties against us; • recall or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of our production; • refusing our requests for premarket clearance or approval of new products; • withdrawing product approvals already granted; and • criminal prosecution. 24 Table of Contents The imposition of any of these enforcement actions could have a negative effect on our reputation, business operations and financial condition. Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the U.S. and various jurisdictions outside the U.S. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes and penalties. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our consolidated earnings and financial condition. Additionally, changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. For example, recent legislation imposed on medical device manufacturers a 2.3 percent excise tax on U.S. sales of medical devices beginning in January 2013. Proposals for fundamental U.S. corporate tax reform, if enacted, could have a material impact on our future results of operations. Our intellectual property rights may not provide meaningful commercial protection for our products, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies and manufacturing processes, which includes the ability to obtain, protect and enforce patents on our technology and to protect our trade secrets. We own patents that cover significant aspects of our products. Certain patents of ours have expired and others will expire in the future. Competitors may develop products similar to ours that our patents do not cover. In addition, our current and future patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents in the United States or other countries. Further, there is a substantial backlog of patent applications in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the approval or rejection of patent applications may take several years. In addition, challenges may be made to our patents in the courts or any of various patent offices around the world, and as a result our patents could be narrowed, invalidated or rendered unenforceable. We may incur substantial costs and resources in applying for and prosecuting these patent, trademark and other intellectual property rights. Our competitive position depends, in part, upon unpatented trade secrets, which can be difficult to protect. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or gain access to our trade secrets. In an effort to protect our trade secrets, we require consultants, advisors and most of our employees to execute confidentiality agreements and certain of them to sign invention assignment agreements upon commencement of employment or a consulting relationship with us. Some jurisdictions limit the enforceability and scope of these agreements, and these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of the unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information. In addition, the laws of certain countries in which we market some of our products do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property in these countries, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 25 Table of Contents The intellectual property rights of others may adversely affect our ability to introduce new products or continue to sell existing products. The medical device industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Companies in the medical device industry have employed intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Numerous patents are held by others, including academic institutions and our competitors. These patents may be employed to limit our ability to market our products, for example, through patent infringement litigation. Patent applications generally will be published 18 months after the filing date. However, since patent applications continue to be maintained in secrecy for at least some period of time, we cannot assure you that our technology does not infringe any patents, patent applications held by third parties, prior patents, or prior art. We have, from time to time, been notified of, or have otherwise been made aware of, claims that we are infringing upon patents or other proprietary intellectual property owned by others. If it appears necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under such patents or proprietary intellectual property. Although patent holders may offer such licenses, licenses under such patents or intellectual property may not be offered or the terms of any offered licenses may not be reasonable. Any infringement claims, with or without merit, and regardless of whether we are successful on the merits, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, cause shipment delays or require us to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. An adverse determination could prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price of our stock may be highly volatile. Our stock price has fluctuated widely. It ranged from $2.93 to $4.99 per share during the year ended July 31, 2014. Our stock price could continue to experience significant fluctuations in response to certain factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as: • our ability to successfully commercialize our products; • the execution of new agreements and material changes in our relationships with companies with whom we contract; • quarterly fluctuations in results of operations; • announcements regarding technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors or the results of regulatory filings; • market reaction to trends in sales, marketing and R&D and reaction to acquisitions; • sales of common stock by existing shareholders; • changes in key personnel; • economic and political conditions, including worldwide geopolitical events; and • fluctuations in the United States financial markets. In addition, our common stock may experience an imbalance between supply and demand resulting from low trading volumes, and therefore broad market fluctuations could have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock regardless of our performance. Synergetics USA, Inc. has anti-takeover defenses that could delay or prevent an acquisition and could adversely affect the price of its common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in the control of the Company, including transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. In addition, these provisions may limit the ability of our shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. Also, our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, as nearly equal in size as practicable, with three-year staggered terms. This provision may deter a potential acquirer from engaging in a transaction with us because it will be unable to gain control of our Board of Directors until at least two annual meetings have been held in which directors are elected by our shareholders. 26 Table of Contents Because we do not intend to pay dividends, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have not paid any dividends on our common stock since inception. We currently expect to retain any earnings for use to further develop our business, and we do not expect to declare cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The declaration and payment of any such dividends in the future depends upon our earnings, financial condition, capital needs and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors, and may be restricted by agreements with lenders. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 