Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below, in addition to the other information set forth in this report, because they could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows and prospects as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business The recent global recession and credit tightening could adversely affect us. The recent global recession and continued concern regarding credit availability, including failures of financial institutions, has initiated unprecedented government intervention in the U.S., Europe and other regions of the world. If these concerns continue or worsen, risks to us include: •Declines in revenues and profitability from reduced orders, payment delays or other factors caused by the economic problems of customers; •reprioritization of government spending away from defense programs in which we participate; •adverse impacts on our access to credit sources; and •supply problems associated with any financial constraints faced by our vendors. A portion of our sales have been, and we expect will continue to be, to defense contractors or government agencies in connection with government aircraft retrofit or original equipment manufacturing contracts. Sales to government contractors and government agencies could decline as a result of DoD spending cuts and general budgetary constraints which may become more frequent as tax revenues decline due to the weakening of general economic conditions. The loss of a key customer or a significant deterioration in the financial condition of a key customer could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our revenue is concentrated with a limited number of customers. During fiscal year 2010 we derived 48% of revenue from five customers. We derived 56% of revenue during fiscal year 2009 from five customers. We derived 72% of revenue during fiscal year 2008 from five customers. We expect a relatively small number of customers to account for a majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result of our concentrated customer base, a loss of one or more of these customers or a dispute or litigation with one of these key customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. In addition, we continually monitor and evaluate the credit status of our customers and attempt to adjust sales terms as appropriate. Despite these efforts, a significant deterioration in the financial condition or bankruptcy filing of a key customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. On November 25, 2008, Eclipse Aviation, Inc. filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. New owners have resurrected the former Eclipse Aviation, Inc. and formed a new entity named Eclipse Aerospace, Inc. to purchase Eclipse Aviation, Inc.'s assets. In fiscal 2010 the Company began deliveries to Eclipse Aerospace, Inc. of equipment and functionality to support upgrades to their existing fleet of approximately 250 aircraft. The Company has not received and does not anticipate receiving any payment on its pre-petition claims. Additionally, claims have been made against the Company to try to recover amounts paid to the Company during the 90 days preceding the filing of the bankruptcy petition. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings. 13 Table of Contents Growth of our customer base could be limited by delays or difficulties in completing development and introduction of our planned products or product enhancements. If we fail to enhance existing products or develop and achieve market acceptance for flat panel displays and other new products that meet customer requirements, our business will be adversely affected. Although historically a substantial majority of our revenue has come from sales of air data systems and related products, we currently spend a large portion of our research and development efforts in developing and marketing our flat panel display systems and complementary products. Our ability to grow and diversify our operations through introduction and sale of new products is dependent upon our success in continuing product development and engineering activities as well as our sales and marketing efforts and our ability to obtain requisite approvals to sell such products. Our sales growth will also depend in part on market acceptance of and demand for our CIP and future products. We cannot be certain we will be able to develop, introduce or market our CIP or other new products or product enhancements in a timely or cost-effective manner or that any new products will receive market acceptance or necessary regulatory approval. During fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008 we derived 68%, 75% and 77% of our total revenue from the sale of flat panel display systems, respectively. We expect revenues from our air data products will decline as a percent of total sales as peak demand associated with the FAA's Reduced Vertical Separation Minimum (RVSM) mandate has been accommodated. Our revenues and profitability will decrease if new products such as our Flat Panel Display Systems do not receive market acceptance or if our existing customers do not continue to incorporate our products in their retrofitting or manufacturing of aircraft. In seeking new customers, it may be difficult for our products to displace competing products. Accordingly, we cannot be assured that potential customers will accept our products or that existing customers will not abandon them. Our revenue and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which may cause our stock price to decline. Our revenue and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, including: •demand for our products and/or delivery schedule changes by our customers; •capital expenditure budgets of aircraft owners and operators and appropriation cycles of the U.S. government; •changes in the use of our products, including air data systems and flat panel displays; •delays in introducing or obtaining government approval for new products; •new product introductions by competitors; •changes in our pricing policies or pricing policies of our competitors, and •costs related to possible acquisition of technologies or businesses. We plan to expand our sales and marketing operations and fund levels of product development proportionate to our total sales. As a result, a delay in generating revenues could cause significant variations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. Contracts can be terminated by customers at any time and therefore may not result in sales. Our retrofit projects are generally pursuant to either a direct contract with a customer or a subcontract with a general contractor to a customer (including government agencies). Each contract, including our contracts with government agencies, includes various terms and conditions that impose certain requirements on us, including the ability of the customer or general contractor to alter the 14 Table of Contents price, quantity or delivery schedule of our products. In addition, the customer or general contractor typically retains the right to terminate the contract at any time at its convenience. Upon alteration or termination of these contracts, we could be entitled to an equitable adjustment to the contract price so we may receive the purchase price for items we have delivered and reimbursement for allowable costs we have incurred. Accordingly, because these contracts can be terminated, we cannot be assured that our retrofit backlog will result in sales. We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively, and if we are unable to retain our key employees, our ability to compete could be harmed. Our success depends on the efforts, abilities and expertise of our senior management and other key personnel. There can be no assurance we will be able to retain such employees, the loss of some of whom could hurt our ability to execute our business strategy. We intend to continue hiring key management and sales and marketing personnel. In spite of a U.S. unemployment rate of 9.6% as of October, 2010, competition for such personnel is intense, and we may not be able to attract or retain additional qualified personnel. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to implement and improve our operational, administrative and financial systems and controls and to manage, train and expand our employee base. We cannot be assured that after giving effect to our cost containment initiatives that our current and planned personnel levels, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our current and future customer base. If inadequate, we may not be able to exploit existing and potential market opportunities. Any delays or difficulties we encounter could impair our ability to attract new customers or maintain our relationships with existing customers. We rely on third party suppliers for components of our products, and any interruption in supply of these components could hinder our ability to deliver our products. Our manufacturing process consists primarily of assembling components purchased from our supply chain. These suppliers may not continue to be available to us. If we are unable to maintain relationships with key third party suppliers, the development and distribution of our products could be delayed until equivalent components can be obtained and integrated into our products. In addition, substitution of certain components from other manufacturers may require product redesign, FAA or other approval, which could delay our ability to ship products. Our competition includes other manufacturers of air data systems and flight information displays against whom we may not be able to compete successfully. The markets for our products are intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological change. Our competitors include Honeywell International Inc., Rockwell Collins, Inc., Thales, GE Aviation and L-3 Communications. Substantially all of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than we do. In addition, our competitors have much greater experience in and resources for marketing their products. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and customer preferences or devote greater resources to development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Our competitors may also have greater name recognition and more extensive customer bases that they can use to their benefit. This competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. 15 Table of Contents Our success depends on our ability to protect our proprietary rights against potential risk of infringement. If we are unable to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent or other protection for our technology and products, both in the United States and abroad. In addition, we must operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We currently hold 22 U.S. patents and have 2 U.S. patent applications pending. In addition, we hold 27 international patents and have 24 international patent applications pending. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued on any of our present or future applications. In addition, our existing patents or any future patents may not adequately protect our technology if they are not broad enough, are successfully challenged or other entities are able to develop competing methods without violating our patents. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property, competitors could begin to offer products that incorporate our technology. Patent protection involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, is highly uncertain, and litigation relating to intellectual property is often very time consuming and expensive. If a successful claim of patent infringement were made against us or we are unable to develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, we might not be able to produce and sell some of our products. In addition, we have incurred in the past and may continue in the future to incur significant legal and other costs in defense of our intellectual property. Potential lenders may have suffered losses related to the weakening economy and may not be able to provide us with needed financing. Potential lenders may have suffered losses related to their lending and other financial relationships, especially because of the general weakening of the national economy and increased financial instability of many borrowers. As a result, lenders may become insolvent or tighten their lending standards, which could make it more difficult for us to borrow or to obtain new financing on favorable terms or at all, if we determine that it would be in our interests to obtain such financing, whether to finance acquisitions or otherwise. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain cost-effective financing in the future. We may not be able to identify or complete acquisitions or we may consummate an acquisition that adversely affects our operating results. One of our strategies is to acquire businesses or technologies that complement our existing operations. We have limited experience in acquiring businesses or technologies. There can be no assurance we will be able to acquire or profitably manage acquisitions or successfully integrate them into our operations. Furthermore, certain risks are inherent in pursuing acquisitions, such as the demands of management's time and attention and combining disparate company cultures and facilities. Acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our operating results, particularly in quarters immediately following the consummation of such transactions, as we integrate operations of acquired businesses into our operations. Once integrated, acquisitions may not perform as expected. Risks Related to Our Industry If we are unable to respond to rapid technological change, our products could become obsolete and our reputation could suffer. Future generations of air data systems, engine and fuel displays, and flat panel displays embodying new technologies or new industry standards could render our products obsolete. The market for 16 Table of Contents aviation products is subject to rapid technological change, new product introductions, changes in customer preferences and evolving industry standards. Our future success will depend on our ability to: •adapt to rapidly changing technologies; •adapt our products to evolving industry standards; and •develop and introduce a variety of new products and product enhancements to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. Our future success will also depend on our developing high quality, cost-effective products and enhancements to our products that satisfy needs of customers and on our introducing these new technologies to the marketplace in a timely manner. If we fail to modify or improve our products in response to evolving industry standards, our products could rapidly become obsolete. Our products are currently subject to direct regulation by the FAA, its European counterpart, the European Aviation Safety Administration (EASA), and other comparable organizations. Our products, as they relate to aircraft applications, must be approved by the FAA, EASA or other comparable organizations before they can be used in an aircraft. To be certified, we must demonstrate that our products are accurate and able to maintain certain levels of repeatability over time. Although certification requirements of the FAA and the EASA are substantially similar, there is no formal reciprocity between the two systems. Accordingly, even though some of our products are FAA-approved, we may need to obtain approval from the EASA or other appropriate organizations to have them certified for installation outside the United States. Significant delay in receiving certification for newly developed products or enhancements to our products or losing certification for our existing products could result in lost sales or delays in sales. Furthermore, adoption of additional regulations or product standards, as well as changes to existing product standards, could require us to change our products and underlying technology. We cannot assure you that we will receive regulatory approval on a timely basis or at all. Because our products utilize sophisticated technology and are deployed in complex aircraft cockpit environments, problems with these products may arise that could seriously harm our reputation for quality assurance and our business. Our products use complex system designs and components that may contain errors, omissions or defects, particularly when we incorporate new technologies into our products or we release new versions or enhancements of our products. Despite our quality assurance process, errors, omissions or defects could occur in our current products, in new products or in new versions or enhancements of existing products after commercial shipment has begun. We may be required to redesign or recall those products or pay damages. Such an event could result in the following: •delay or loss of revenues; •cancellation of customer contracts; •diversion of development resources; •damage to our reputation; •increased service and warranty costs; or •litigation costs. Although we currently carry product liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover our losses in the event of a product liability claim. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain such insurance in the future. 17 Table of Contents We have limited experience in marketing and distributing our products internationally. We expect to derive an increasing amount of our revenues from sales outside the United States, particularly in Europe. There are certain risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, such as: •differing regulatory requirements for products being installed in aircraft; •legal uncertainty regarding liability; •tariffs, trade barriers, and other regulatory barriers; •political and economic instability; •changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; •potentially adverse tax consequences; •the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States; and •variance and unexpected changes in local laws and regulations. Currently, all of our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. An increase in the dollar's value compared to other currencies could make our products less competitive in foreign markets. In the future, we may be required to conduct sales in local currencies, exposing us to changes in exchange rates that could adversely affect our operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 