Item 1A. Risk Factors Each reader should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below, in addition to the other information set forth in this report, because they could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows and prospects as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in IS&S common stock. Risks Related to IS&S Business The global recession and credit tightening could adversely affect IS&S. The global recession and continued concern regarding credit availability, including failures of financial institutions, has initiated unprecedented government intervention in the U.S., Europe and other regions of the world. If these concerns continue or worsen, risks to IS&S include: •declines in revenues and profitability from reduced orders, payment delays or other factors caused by the economic problems of customers; •reprioritization of government spending away from defense programs in which IS&S participates; •adverse impacts on the Company's access to credit sources; and •supply problems associated with any financial constraints faced by the Company's vendors. A portion of IS&S sales has been, and is expected to continue to be defense contractors or government agencies in connection with government aircraft retrofit or original equipment manufacturing contracts. Sales to government contractors and government agencies could decline as a result of DoD spending cuts and general budgetary constraints which may become more severe as federal tax revenues decline due to weak general economic conditions. Reductions in government expenditures could adversely affect our business. The Budget Control Act of 2011 (the "Budget Act") that was signed into law on August 2, 2011 to reduce federal government expenditures over the next 10 years may result in reduced U.S. government funding of the defense industry. The Budget Act set $900 billion in immediate cuts to discretionary government spending for 2012 through 2021. It also established a bi-partisan congressional Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction (the "Super Committee") and charged it with recommending legislation by November 23, 2011, the result of which would reduce net government spending by at least $1.2 trillion over the next 10 years, in addition to the $900 billion in immediate discretionary spending reductions. The failure of the Super Committee to meet its objectives has triggered an automatic sequestration of discretionary appropriations, which if not altered by the Congress, will make up any shortfall necessary to achieve the $1.2 trillion target. Under the Budget Act, 50% of any shortfall from the $1.2 trillion target would automatically be applied as a reduction to discretionary appropriations for national defense programs. The impact of any resulting reductions in defense appropriations, and/or reductions in U.S. defense spending could negatively affect the Company's revenues, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of a key customer or a significant deterioration in the financial condition of a key customer could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. The Company's revenue is concentrated with a limited number of customers. During fiscal year 2011 IS&S derived 61% of revenue from the top 5 five customers. IS&S expects a relatively small number of customers to account for a majority of its revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result of the concentrated customer base, a loss of one or more of these customers or a dispute or litigation with one of these key customers could have a material adverse effect on its revenue and results of operations. In addition, the Company continually monitors and evaluates the credit status of its 13 Table of Contents customers and attempt to adjust sales terms as appropriate. Despite these efforts, a significant deterioration in the financial condition or bankruptcy filing of a key customer could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. On November 29, 2011, AMR Corporation, the parent company of American Airlines, Inc. and certain of its other U.S.-based subsidiaries, filed voluntary petitions for Chapter 11 reorganization in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. The Company's revenues from American Airlines, Inc. accounted for 8%, 8% and 24% total revenue for the fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (See Note 18—Subsequent Event in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements attached). Growth of the Company's customer base could be limited by delays or difficulties in completing development and introduction of planned products or product enhancements. If IS&S fails to enhance existing products or develop and achieve market acceptance for flat panel displays and other new products that meet customer requirements, its business will be adversely affected. IS&S currently spends a large portion of its research and development efforts in developing and marketing the FPDS and complementary products. The Company's ability to grow and diversify its operations through introduction and sale of new products is dependent upon the continued success in product development and engineering activities, its sales and marketing efforts and regulatory approvals to sell such products. Sales growth will depend also in part on market acceptance of and demand for the CIP and future products. IS&S cannot be certain that it will be able to develop, introduce or market its CIP or other new products or product enhancements in a timely or cost-effective manner or that any new products will receive market acceptance or necessary regulatory approval. In seeking new customers, the Company may have difficulty in displacing the products of incumbent competitors. Accordingly, IS&S cannot be assured that potential customers will accept its products or that existing customers will not abandon them. The Company's revenue and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which may cause its stock price to decline. The Company's revenue and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, including: •demand for products and/or delivery schedule changes by its customers; •capital expenditure budgets of aircraft owners and operators and appropriation cycles of the U.S. government; •changes in the use of the Company's products, including air data systems and flat panel displays; •delays in introducing or obtaining government approval for new products; •new product introductions by competitors; •changes in IS&S pricing policies or pricing policies of competitors, and •costs related to possible acquisition of technologies or businesses. IS&S plans to structure its sales and marketing operations and to fund levels of product development in proportion to its total sales. As a result, a delay in generating revenues could cause significant variations in its operating results from quarter to quarter. 14 Table of Contents Contracts can be terminated by customers at any time and, therefore, may not result in sales. The Company's retrofit projects are generally pursuant to either a direct contract with a customer or a subcontract with a general contractor to a customer (including government agencies). Each contract, including contracts with government agencies, includes various terms and conditions that impose certain requirements on IS&S, including the ability of the customer or general contractor to alter the price, quantity or delivery schedule of the products. In addition, typically, the customer or general contractor retains the right to terminate the contract at any time at its convenience. Upon alteration or termination of these contracts, IS&S could be entitled to an equitable adjustment to the contract price so that it may receive the purchase price for items that it has delivered and reimbursement for allowable costs incurred. Accordingly, because these contracts can be terminated, the Company cannot be assured that its retrofit backlog will result in sales. IS&S depends on key personnel to manage its business effectively and an inability to retain its key employees could adversely impact the Company's ability to compete. The Company's success depends on the efforts, abilities and expertise of its senior management and other key personnel. There can be no assurance IS&S will be able to retain such employees, the loss of some of whom could damage its ability to execute its business strategy. The Company intends to continue hiring key management and sales and marketing personnel. In spite of a U.S. unemployment rate of 8.6% as of November, 2011, competition for skilled personnel is intense, and IS&S may not be able to attract or retain additional qualified personnel. The Company's future success will depend in part on its ability to implement and improve its operational, administrative and financial systems and controls and to manage, train and expand its employee base. IS&S cannot be assured that, after giving effect to its cost containment initiatives, that current and planned personnel levels, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support the current and future customer base. In such a circumstance, the Company may not be able to exploit existing and potential market opportunities. Any delays or difficulties encountered could impair the Company's ability to attract new customers or maintain its relationships with existing customers. IS&S relies on third party suppliers for components of its products, and any interruption in the supply of these components could hinder its ability to deliver products on a timely basis. The Company's manufacturing process consists primarily of assembling components purchased from its supply chain. The suppliers may not continue to be available to IS&S. If the Company is unable to maintain relationships with key third party suppliers, the development and distribution of its products could be delayed until equivalent components can be obtained and integrated into the products. In addition, substitution of certain components from other manufacturers may require product redesign, FAA or other approval, which could delay the Company's ability to ship products. The Company's competition includes other manufacturers of air data systems and flight information displays against whom it may not be able to compete successfully. The markets for the Company's products are intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological change. Competitors include Honeywell International Inc., Rockwell Collins, Inc., Thales Communications, Inc., GE Aviation and L-3 Communications. All these competitors have substantially significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than does IS&S. In addition, these competitors have much greater experience in and resources for marketing their products. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and customer preferences or to devote greater resources to development, promotion and sale of their products than IS&S can. The Company's competitors may also have greater name recognition and more extensive 15 Table of Contents customer bases that they can use to their benefit. Such competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. The Company's success depends on its ability to protect its proprietary rights against potential risk of infringement. If IS&S is unable to protect and enforce its intellectual property rights, it may be unable to compete effectively. The Company's success and ability to compete will depend in part on its ability to obtain and maintain patent or other protection for its technology and products, both in the United States and internationally. In addition, IS&S must operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. IS&S currently holds 24 U.S. patents and has 5 U.S. patent applications pending. In addition, the Company holds 25 international patents and has 25 international patent applications pending. IS&S cannot be certain that patents will be issued on any of its present or future applications. In addition, existing patents or future patents may not adequately protect the Company's technology if they are not broad enough and are successfully challenged, or if other entities are able to develop competing methods without violating its patents. If IS&S is not successful in protecting its intellectual property, competitors could begin to offer products that incorporate the Company's technology. Patent protection involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, is highly uncertain. Litigation relating to intellectual property is often very time consuming and expensive. If a successful claim of patent infringement were made against IS&S or if the Company is unable to develop non-infringing technology or to license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, the Company might not be able to produce and sell some of its products. Further, IS&S has incurred and may continue to incur significant legal and other costs in defense of its intellectual property. A cybersecurity incident could have a negative impact. A cyber-attack that bypasses the Company's information technology (IT) security systems causing an IT security breach, may lead to a material disruption of its IT business systems and/or the loss of business information resulting in an adverse business impact. Risks may include: •future results could be adversely affected due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property; •operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of IT systems and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities; •negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with customers, partners or industry peers. Potential lenders may have suffered losses related to the weakening economy and may not be able to provide IS&S with needed financing. The Company's financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if is unable to obtain cost-effective financing in the future. Potential lenders may have suffered losses related to their lending and other financial relationships, especially because of the national and global economies and increased financial instability of many borrowers. As a result, lenders may become insolvent or tighten their lending standards, which could make it more difficult for IS&S to borrow or to obtain new financing on favorable terms or at all, if management determines that it would be in the Company's interests to obtain such financing, whether to finance acquisitions or otherwise. 16 Table of Contents IS&S may not be able to identify or complete acquisitions, or it may consummate an acquisition that adversely affects the Company's operating results. One of the Company's strategies is to acquire businesses or technologies that complement its existing operations. IS&S has limited experience in acquiring businesses or technologies. There can be no assurance IS&S will be able to acquire or profitably manage acquisitions or successfully integrate them into its operations. Furthermore, certain risks are inherent in pursuing acquisitions, such as the demands of management's time and attention and combining disparate company cultures and facilities. Acquisitions may have an adverse effect on the Company's operating results, particularly in quarters immediately following the consummation of such transactions, as it integrates operations of acquired businesses into its operations. Once integrated, acquisitions may not perform as expected or be accretive to the Company's results of operations. Risks Related to the Company's Industry If IS&S is unable to respond to rapid technological change, its products could become obsolete and its reputation could suffer. Future generations of air data systems, engine and fuel displays, and flat panel displays which embody new technologies or new industry standards could render the Company's products obsolete. The market for aviation products is subject to rapid technological change, new product introductions, changes in customer preferences and evolving industry standards and government regulations. The Company's future success will depend on its ability to: •adapt to rapidly changing technologies; •adapt the Company's products to evolving industry standards and government regulations; and •develop and introduce a variety of new products and product enhancements to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of its customers. The Company's future success will depend also on its ability to develop high quality, cost-effective products and enhancements of its current product line that satisfy needs of customers, and on introducing new technologies to the marketplace in a timely manner. If IS&S fails to modify or improve its products in response to evolving industry standards and government regulations, its products could rapidly become obsolete. The Company's products are currently subject to direct regulation by the FAA, its European counterpart, the EASA, and other equivalent organizations. The Company's products, as they relate to aircraft applications, must be approved by the FAA, EASA or other equivalent organizations before they can be installed in an aircraft. To be certified IS&S must demonstrate that its products are accurate and able to maintain certain levels of repeatability over time. Although certification requirements of the FAA and the EASA are substantially similar, no formal reciprocity exists between the two regulators. Accordingly, even though the Company's products are FAA-approved, it may need to obtain approval from the EASA or other appropriate organizations to have them certified for installation outside the United States. Significant delay in receiving certification for newly developed products or enhancements to the Company's products or the loss of certification for its existing products could result in lost sales or delays in sales. Furthermore, adoption of additional regulations or product standards, as well as changes to existing product standards, could require IS&S to change its products and underlying technology. IS&S cannot ensure that it will receive regulatory approval on a timely basis or at all. 17 Table of Contents In as much as the Company's products utilize sophisticated technology and are deployed in complex aircraft cockpit environments, problems with these products may arise that could seriously harm the Company's reputation for quality assurance and, consequently, its business prospects. The Company's products use complex system designs and components that may contain errors, omissions or defects, particularly when it incorporates new technologies into the products or when it releases new versions or enhancements of its products. Despite the Company's quality assurance process, errors, omissions or defects could occur in its current products, in new products or in new versions or enhancements of existing products after commercial shipment has begun. IS&S may be required to redesign or recall those products or pay damages. Such an event could result in the following: •delay or loss of revenues; •cancellation of customer contracts; •diversion of development resources; •damage to the Company's reputation; •increased service and warranty costs; or •litigation costs. Although IS&S currently carries product liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover its losses in the event of a large product liability claim. In addition, IS&S may not be able to maintain such insurance in the future. The Company has limited experience in marketing and distributing its products internationally. IS&S expects to derive an increasing amount of its revenues from sales outside the United States, particularly in Europe. There are certain risks inherent in doing business internationally, such as: •differing regulatory requirements for products being installed in an aircraft; •legal uncertainty regarding liability; •tariffs, trade barriers, and other regulatory barriers; •political and economic instability; •changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; •potentially adverse tax consequences; •the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States; and •variances and unexpected changes in local laws and regulations. Currently, all of the Company's international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. An increase in the dollar's value compared to other currencies could render its products less competitive in the international markets. In the future, IS&S may be required to conduct sales in the foreign country's local currency, thus exposing the Company to fluctuations and volatility in exchange rates that could adversely affect its operating results. 18 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 