Item 1A. Risk Factors Each reader should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below, in addition to the other information set forth in this report, because they could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows, prospects, and the value of an investment in IS&S common stock. Risks Related to IS&S Business Reductions in government expenditures could adversely affect IS&S business. The Budget Act of 2011 triggered substantial, automatic reductions in both defense and discretionary spending. The automatic across-the-board sequestration cuts are in addition to reductions already reflected in the defense funding over a ten-year period and could have significant consequences to the Company’s business and industry. While the full impact of sequestration is undetermined, the impact of any resulting reductions in defense appropriations, and/or reductions in U.S. defense spending could result in delays in procurement of products and services due to lack of funding, and negatively affect the IS&S’s revenues, financial condition and results of operations. The ongoing global uncertainty and concern regarding credit availability could adversely affect IS&S. The global uncertainty and continued concern regarding credit availability, including failures of financial institutions, has produced unprecedented government intervention in the U.S., Europe and other regions of the world. If these concerns continue or worsen, risks to IS&S include: · declines in revenues and profitability from reduced orders, payment delays or other factors caused by the economic problems of customers; · reprioritization of government spending away from defense programs in which IS&S participates; · reduced access to credit sources; and · disruptions in supplies associated with any financial constraints faced by vendors. A portion of IS&S sales has been, and is expected to continue to be, from defense contractors or government agencies in connection with government aircraft retrofit or original equipment manufacturing contracts. Sales to government contractors and government agencies could decline as a result of DoD spending cuts and general budgetary constraints which may become more severe as the federal budget deficit remains high. The loss of a key customer or a significant deterioration in the financial condition of a key customer could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s revenue is concentrated with a limited number of customers. During fiscal year 2014 IS&S derived 59% of revenue from the top five customers. IS&S expects a relatively small number of customers to account for a majority of its revenues for the 12 Table of Contents foreseeable future. As a result of the concentrated customer base, a loss of one or more of these customers or a dispute or litigation with one of these key customers could affect adversely its revenue and results of operations. For example, in October 2014, Delta issued a cancellation notice to the Company purporting to terminate its contract with IS&S. The Company will enter into a contractually mandated non-binding mediation with Delta in accordance with the terms of the contract. (See Item 3. Legal Proceedings). In addition, the Company monitors and evaluates the credit status of its customers and attempts to adjust sales terms as appropriate. Despite these efforts, a significant deterioration in the financial condition or bankruptcy filing of a key customer could affect adversely the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. Growth of the Company’s customer base could be limited by delays or difficulties in completing development and introduction of planned products or product enhancements. If IS&S fails to enhance existing products, or to develop and achieve market acceptance for flat panel displays, flight management systems and other new products that meet customer requirements, its business, reputation and statements of income may be affected adversely. Currently, IS&S spends a large portion of its R&D efforts in developing and marketing the FPDS, FMS, and complementary products. The Company’s ability to grow and diversify its operations through introduction and sale of new products is dependent upon the continued success in product development and engineering activities, its sales and marketing efforts, and regulatory approvals to sell such products. Sales growth will depend in part on market acceptance of and demand for the FPDS, FMS, and future products. IS&S cannot be certain that it will be able to develop, introduce or market its FPDS, FMS, or other new products or product enhancements in a timely or cost-effective manner, or that any new products will receive market acceptance or necessary regulatory approval. In addition, the Company’s business is dependent upon maintaining its reputation and relationships with existing customers. If the Company’s performance does not meet its customers expectations, the Company’s reputation and its relationships could be damaged, which may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and statements of income. In seeking new customers, the Company may have difficulty in displacing the products of incumbent competitors. IS&S cannot be assured that potential customers will accept its products or that existing customers will not abandon them. The Company’s revenue and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which may cause its stock price to decline. The Company’s revenue and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter because of a number of factors, including: · demand for products and/or delivery schedule changes by its customers; · capital expenditure budgets of aircraft owners and operators, and appropriation cycles of the U.S. government; · changes in the use of the Company’s products, including air data systems, flat panel displays, and flight management systems; · delays in introducing or obtaining government approval for new products; · new product introductions by competitors; · changes in IS&S pricing policies or pricing policies of competitors; and · costs related to possible acquisition of technologies or businesses. Contracts can be terminated by customers at any time and, therefore, may not result in sales. The Company’s retrofit projects are generally pursuant to either a direct contract with a customer or a subcontract with a general contractor to a customer (including government agencies). Each contract, including contracts with government agencies, includes various terms and conditions that impose certain requirements on IS&S, including the ability of the government agency or general contractor to alter the price, quantity or delivery schedule of the products. Additionally, each government agency or general contractor retains the right to terminate the contract at any time at its convenience. Upon alteration or termination of these contracts, IS&S is entitled typically to an equitable adjustment to the contract price so that it would be compensated for delivered items and allowable costs incurred. Accordingly, because these contracts can be terminated, the Company cannot be assured that its backlog will result in sales. For example, in October 2014, Delta issued a cancellation notice to the Company purporting to terminate its contract with IS&S resulting in $61.9 million of debookings with respect thereto. 13 Table of Contents The Company enters into fixed-price contracts or service arrangements to perform specified design and EDC services related to its products that could subject IS&S to losses in the event the Company incurs cost overruns on its projects. During fiscal 2014, approximately 32% percent of the Company’s total sales were from fixed-price EDC arrangements with customers to perform specified design and EDC services related to its products. These arrangements allow IS&S to benefit by recovering some of its product development costs, but it carries the risk of potential cost overruns. If the Company’s initial cost estimates are incorrect, it can incur potentially large one time charges and losses on these contracts. These EDC arrangements can expose the Company to potential losses because the customer may compel IS&S to complete a project or, in the event of a termination for default, pay the incremental cost of its replacement by another provider. Because some of these projects involve new technologies and applications, and can last for more than a year, unforeseen events such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with subcontractors, and cost overruns can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to IS&S over time. Furthermore, if the Company does not meet project deadlines or if its products do not meet customer specifications, it may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages, or suffer losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. The Company’s results of operations are dependent on its ability to maximize earnings from the EDC service arrangements. Lower earnings caused by cost overruns could have a negative impact on the Company’s financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. IS&S depends on key personnel to manage its business effectively, and an inability to retain its key employees could adversely impact the Company’s ability to compete. The Company’s success depends on the efforts, abilities, and expertise of its senior management and other key personnel. There can be no assurance IS&S will be able to retain such employees, and the loss of some could damage its ability to execute its business strategy. The Company intends to continue hiring key management, engineering, and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for skilled personnel is intense, and IS&S may not be able to attract or retain additional qualified personnel. The Company’s future success will depend in part on its ability to implement and improve its operational, administrative and financial systems and controls and to manage, train and expand its employee base. IS&S cannot provide assurance that, after giving effect to its cost containment initiatives, that current and planned personnel levels, systems, procedures, and controls will be adequate to support the current and future customer base. In such a circumstance, the Company may not be able to exploit existing and potential market opportunities. Any delays or difficulties encountered could impair the Company’s ability to attract new customers or maintain its relationships with existing customers. IS&S relies on third party suppliers for components of its products, and any interruption in the supply of these components could hinder its ability to deliver products on a timely basis. The Company’s manufacturing process consists primarily of assembling components purchased from its supply chain. The suppliers may not continue to be available to IS&S. If the Company is unable to maintain relationships with key third party suppliers, the development and distribution of its products could be delayed until equivalent components can be obtained and integrated into the products. In addition, substitution of certain components from other manufacturers may require product redesign, FAA or other approval, which could delay the Company’s ability to ship products. The Company’s competition includes other manufacturers of air data systems and flight information displays against whom it may not be able to compete successfully. The markets for the Company’s products are intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological change. Competitors include Honeywell, Rockwell Collins, Inc., Thales, GEAS, and L-3 Communications. All these competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, and human resources than does IS&S. In addition, these competitors have much greater experience in and resources for marketing their products. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and customer preferences, or to devote greater resources to development, promotion and sale of their products than IS&S can. The Company’s competitors may have greater name recognition and more extensive customer bases. Such competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share. The Company’s success depends on its ability to protect its proprietary rights against potential risk of infringement. If IS&S is unable to protect and enforce its intellectual property rights, it may be unable to compete effectively. The Company’s success and ability to compete will depend in part on its ability to obtain and maintain patent or other protection for its technology and products, both in the United States and internationally. In addition, IS&S must operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. IS&S currently holds 29 U.S. patents and has 6 U.S. patent applications pending. In addition, the Company holds 59 international patents and has 26 international patent applications pending. IS&S cannot be certain that patents will be issued on any of its present or future applications. In addition, existing patents or future patents may not adequately protect the Company’s technology if they are not 14 Table of Contents broad enough and are successfully challenged, or if other entities are able to develop competing methods without violating its patents. If IS&S is not successful in protecting its intellectual property, competitors could begin to offer products that incorporate the Company’s technology. Patent protection involves complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, is highly uncertain. Litigation relating to intellectual property is often very time consuming and expensive. If a successful claim of patent infringement were made against IS&S, and if the Company were unable to develop non-infringing technology, or to license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, the Company might not be able to produce and sell some of its products. Further, IS&S has incurred, and may continue to incur, significant legal and other costs in defense of its intellectual property. A cyber security incident could have a negative impact. A cyber-attack that bypasses the Company’s information technology (“IT”) security systems causing an IT security breach, may lead to a material disruption of its IT business systems and/or the loss of business information resulting in an adverse business impact. Risks may include: · negative impact on future results due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of confidential data or intellectual property; · operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of IT systems and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities; and · negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with customers, partners or industry peers. Tax changes could affect the Company’s effective tax rate and future profitability. The Company’s future results could be affected negatively by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of changes in the overall profitability and changes to statutory tax rates in the United States, changes in tax legislation, and the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns. IS&S may not be able to identify or complete acquisitions, or it may consummate an acquisition that adversely affects the Company’s operating results. One of the Company’s strategies may be to acquire businesses or technologies that complement its existing operations. IS&S has limited experience in acquiring businesses or technologies. There can be no assurance IS&S will be able to acquire or profitably manage acquisitions or successfully integrate them into its operations. Furthermore, certain risks are inherent in pursuing acquisitions, such as the demands of management’s time and attention and integrating disparate company cultures and facilities. Acquisitions may have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results, particularly in quarters immediately following the consummation of such transactions, as the Company integrates operations of acquired businesses into its operations. Once integrated, acquisitions may not perform as expected or be accretive to the Company’s results of operations. Risks Related to the Company’s Industry If IS&S is unable to respond to rapid technological change, its products could become obsolete and its reputation could suffer. Future generations of flat panel displays, air data systems, engine and fuel displays, and flight management systems which embody new technologies or new industry standards could render the Company’s products obsolete. The market for aviation products is subject to rapid technological change, new product introductions, changes in customer preferences, and evolving industry standards and government regulations. The Company’s future success will depend on its ability to: · embrace rapidly changing technologies; · adapt the Company’s products to evolving industry standards and government regulations; and · develop and introduce timely, high quality, cost effective new products, and product enhancements to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of its customers. If IS&S fails to modify or improve its products in response to evolving industry standards and government regulations, its products could rapidly become obsolete. The Company’s products are currently subject to direct regulation by the FAA and other equivalent organizations. The Company’s products, as they relate to aircraft applications, must be approved by the FAA, EASA, or other equivalent organizations before they can be installed in an aircraft. To be certified, IS&S must demonstrate that its products are accurate and able to maintain certain levels 15 Table of Contents of repeatability over time. Although certification requirements of the FAA and EASA are substantially similar, no formal reciprocity exists between the two regulators. Accordingly, even though the Company’s products are FAA approved, it may need to obtain approval from EASA or other appropriate organizations to have them certified for installation outside the United States. Significant delay in receiving certification for newly developed products or enhancements to the Company’s products, or the loss of certification for its existing products, could result in lost sales or delays in sales. Furthermore, new regulations or product standards, and changes to existing product standards could require IS&S to change its products and underlying technology. IS&S cannot ensure that it will receive regulatory approval on a timely basis or at all. Inasmuch as the Company’s products utilize sophisticated technology and are deployed in complex aircraft cockpit environments, problems with these products may arise that could harm the Company’s reputation for quality assurance and, consequently, its business prospects. The Company’s products use complex system designs and components that may contain errors, omissions, or defects, particularly when the Company incorporates new technologies into its products or when it releases new versions or enhancements of its existing products. Despite the Company’s quality assurance process, errors, omissions or defects could occur in its current products, in new products, or in new versions or enhancements of existing products. IS&S may be required to redesign or recall those products or pay damages. Such an event could result in the following: · delay or loss of revenues; · cancellation of customer contracts; · diversion of development resources; · damage to the Company’s reputation; · increased service and warranty costs; or · litigation costs. Although IS&S carries product liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover its losses in the event of a large product liability claim. In addition, IS&S may not be able to maintain such insurance in the future. The Company has limited experience in marketing and distributing its products internationally. IS&S plans to derive increasing revenues from sales outside the United States, particularly in Europe. Risks inherent in doing business internationally include: · differing regulatory requirements; · legal uncertainty regarding liability; · tariffs, trade barriers, and other regulatory barriers; · political and economic instability; · changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; · potentially adverse tax consequences; · the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States; and · variances and unexpected changes in local laws and regulations. Currently, all of the Company’s international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. An increase in the dollar’s value compared to other currencies could render its products less competitive in the international markets. In the future, IS&S may be required to conduct sales in the foreign country’s local currency, thus exposing the Company to fluctuations and volatility in exchange rates that could adversely affect its operating results. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 