ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - continued Inability to Attract and Retain Qualified Personnel. Our future success depends in significant part on its ability to attract and retain key management, technical and marketing personnel. Competition for highly qualified professional, technical, business development, and management and marketing personnel is intense. We may experience difficulty in attracting new personnel, may not be able to hire the necessary personnel to implement our business strategy, or we may need to pay higher compensation for employees than we currently expect. A shortage in the availability of required personnel could limit our ability to grow. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in attracting and retaining the personnel we need to grow. Inability to Manage Rapid Growth. We expect to grow rapidly. Rapid growth often places considerable operational, managerial and financial strain on a business. To successfully manage rapid growth, we must accurately project its rate of growth and: ● Rapidly improve, upgrade and expand our business infrastructure; ● Deliver our product and services on a timely basis; ● Maintain levels of service expected by clients and customers; ● Maintain appropriate levels of staffing; ● Maintain adequate levels of liquidity; and ● Expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network hardware or software or find third parties to provide these services. Our business will suffer if we are unable to successfully manage our growth. Effects of Amortization Charges/Stock Based Compensation. Our losses will increase, or our earnings, if applicable, will be reduced by charges associated with the issuance of options and/or warrants. We have adopted a stock incentive plan for the benefit of our directors, officers and employees. We may also compensate consultants and vendors with restricted stock and/or warrants in lieu of, or in addition to, cash for services provided. The total unearned stock-based compensation will be amortized as a stock-based compensation expense in our consolidated financial statements over the applicable vesting periods, generally two to ten years in the case of options granted to employees, officers and directors and two years in the case of warrants granted to consultants and other third parties. These types of charges may increase in the future. The future value of these potential charges cannot be estimated at this time because the charges will be based on the future value of our stock and the related exercises of the aforementioned options and warrants. Dividend Policy. There can be no assurance that our operations will result in future significant revenues or any level of profitability. We have not, and do not, anticipate paying cash dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. We plan to retain all future earnings and cash flows, if any, to finance our operations and for general corporate purposes. Any future determination as to the payment of cash dividends will be at our Board of Directors’ discretion and will depend on our financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs, plans for expansion and other factors that our Board of Directors considers relevant. Conflicts of Interest. Existing and future officers and directors may have other interests to which they devote time, either individually or through partnerships and corporations in which they have an interest, hold an office, or serve on boards of directors, and each may continue to do so. As a result, certain conflicts of interest may exist between the Company and its officers and/or directors that may not be susceptible to resolution. All potential conflicts of interest will be resolved only through exercise by the directors of such judgment as is consistent with their fiduciary duties to the Company, and it is the intention of management to minimize any potential conflicts of interest. Loss of Services of Key Members of Our Senior Management Team. Our future success depends in a large part upon the continued services of key members of our senior management team. These persons are critical to the overall management of Studio One as well as the development of our technology, our culture and our strategic direction. We do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. The loss of any of our management or key personnel could seriously harm our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 22 