ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - continued Effects of Amortization Charges/Stock Based Compensation. Our losses will increase, or our earnings, if applicable, will be reduced, by charges associated with the issuance options and/or warrants. We have adopted a stock incentive plan for the benefit of our directors, officers, employees and consultants. The total unearned stock-based compensation will be amortized as a stock-based compensation expense in our consolidated financial statements over the vesting period of the applicable options or shares, generally two to ten years in the case of options granted to employees, officers and directors and two years in the case of options granted to non-employee directors, consultants and third parties. These types of charges may increase in the future. The future value of these potential charges cannot be estimated at this time because the charges will be based on the future value of our stock. Dividend Policy. There can be no assurance that our proposed operations will result in significant revenues or any level of profitability. We have not, and do not, anticipate paying cash dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. We plan to retain all future earnings, if any, to finance our operations and for general corporate purposes. Any future determination as to the payment of cash dividends will be at our Board of Directors’ discretion and will depend on our financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs, plans for expansion and other factors that our Board of Directors considers relevant. Conflicts of Interest. Existing and future officers and directors may have other interests to which they devote time, either individually or through partnerships and corporations in which they have an interest, hold an office, or serve on boards of directors, and each may continue to do so. As a result, certain conflicts of interest may exist between the Company and its officers and/or directors that may not be susceptible to resolution. All potential conflicts of interest will be resolved only through exercise by the directors of such judgment as is consistent with their fiduciary duties to the Company and it is the intention of management to minimize any potential conflicts of interest. Loss of Services of Key Members of Our Senior Management Team. Our future success depends in a large part upon the continued services of key members of our senior management team. These persons are critical to the overall management of Studio One as well as the development of our technology, our culture and our strategic direction. We do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. The loss of any of our management or key personnel could seriously harm our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 