ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business, including the risks described below. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected . In such cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline. 3 Risks Related to Our Business We do not have sufficient cash to satisfy our liquidity needs. Consequently, our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt in our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firms have included an explanatory paragraph in their reports dated October 13, 2005 (which was also dual dated June 16, 2006) and September 6, 2006 on our financial statements for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2005 and June 30, 2006, with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. This means that the auditor questions whether we can continue in business. Investors in our securities should carefully review the report prepared by our auditor. Our ability to continue in the normal course of business is dependent upon our line of credit with Greenfield Commercial Credit, LLC, our ability to increase our cash flow and profitability, and our ability to access additional capital. As concluded by our independent auditors, uncertainties as to these matters raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern at the date of our auditor’s report. For a more detailed discussion of these risks, see the risk factors identified below. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s report regarding our ability to continue as a going concern could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and trading price of our common stock. The issuance by our independent registered public accounting firm of its report concerning our ability to continue as a going concern could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and stock price. For example, among other things, as a result of concerns regarding our financial viability, prospective and existing clients may desire the company to present its future business plans as a condition to doing business with us, thus, posing challenges for us to increase or maintain our customer relationships and our level of revenues. Additionally, our suppliers may demand letters of credit, or accelerated payment terms as a condition to their continuing to provide us with our supply; thus, increasing our costs of operations. If any of these events or similar events occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and trading price of our common stock. For a more detailed discussion of these risks, see the risk factors below. Our line of credit may not have sufficient availability to finance our operations. We presently finance our operations through a credit facility with Greenfield Commercial Credit, LLC, which is secured by a blanket lien on our assets and the funding of which is subject to limitation in availability of funding based upon varying percentages of the levels of our accounts receivable and inventory. In addition, certain of our suppliers require the posting of letters of credit to ensure shipment of products, which letters of credit reduce availability under our revolving line of credit. Greenfield Commercial Credit, LLC can terminate our line of credit at any time, irrespective of whether any default exists under the line of credit. There can be no assurances that if our credit facility is terminated we will be able to replace such credit facility, and if we cannot replace such credit facility, we will likely not be able to continue our operations. In addition, should we lack sufficient availability for draws on the line of credit, we may be unable to finance operations in the ordinary course of our business, and we may lack sufficient funds to implement our sales, marketing, and product development initiatives. Our plan to increase sales and profitability may not be successful, which could result in our seeking alternatives to our business plan. If we are unsuccessful in implementing our marketing, sales and product development initiatives, we may seek alternative ways to maximize shareholder value. Such alternatives could include going private or finding a strategic buyer to purchase the Company or our core business. There can be no assurance that such alternatives, if pursued, would increase the value of the shares of our Common Stock. 4 Our plan to increase profitability depends upon our ability to increase our gross margin on sale of our products. We are currently almost exclusively engaged in the sale of disposable gloves. Accordingly, our results of operations and financial condition are highly dependent on the level of supply of, and demand for, disposable gloves. Historically, the gross margin on our disposable gloves has been low and our ability to raise the prices we charge our customers for these gloves is restricted by a number of factors, including the commodity like nature of our product, the level of supply of gloves in the marketplace, the level of concentration of our customers, and the increasing raw material cost of the gloves. Due to these factors, we may not be able to pass on price increases to our customers in a timely manner or at all. To the extent that these factors continue, our gross margins could continue to fluctuate and/or decline, which would adversely affect us and our future operating results. We recently have taken action to increase our gross margins by reducing our cost of supply by diversifying our suppliers of disposable gloves. We hope to increase our product sales from higher gross margin products, such as powder-free and synthetic gloves. However, there is no assurance that these efforts will be successful or will positively affect the trading price of our common stock. We need to develop complimentary products to increase our gross margins. The foodservice, industrial and retail industries look at our current line of product offerings as one product of a bundle of safety products used by their customers. We have developed and continue to develop additional products that can be sold in this market channel and that address the current safety requirements of our customers. These additional product offerings include poly gloves, heavy-duty gloves, headwear, aprons and bibs, food storage bags and educational services. We expect that these products will typically have higher gross margins than our glove products. These products are or will be offered under our SafePrep brand and under private label. Currently, these products represent approximately nine percent 9.4% of our total net sales, and have had a favorable effect on our overall gross margin. We face significant competition in the sale of our products. The various markets in which we operate are becoming increasingly competitive as a number of other companies develop and sell products that compete with our products in these markets. Certain of these competitors have significantly more financial and technical resources than us. We face additional competitive factors besides price, such as product quality, timeliness of delivery, service and the size and reliability of the manufacturer. These competitive factors may result in, among other things, price discounts by us and sales lost by us to competitors that may adversely affect our future operating results. Our business relies heavily on sales to a few distributors. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, our national customer group accounted for 85.9% of our net sales revenue. These distributors resell our products to the end users. The loss of any of these national distributors would likely have a materially adverse impact on us and our financial results. Our profitability depends in part on the cost of rubber and latex concentrate. Our ability to purchase our latex products profitably is entirely dependent upon the consistent availability, at competitive prices, of raw rubber harvested by independent growers in Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia and locally processed by others into latex concentrate. Any disruption in the consistent supply of rubber for latex concentrate due to weather or other natural phenomena, labor or transportation stoppages, shortages or other factors, could cause significant adverse effects to our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, rubber is a commodity traded on world commodities exchanges and is subject to price fluctuations driven by changing market conditions over which we have no control. During the year ended June 30, 2006, the price of latex concentrate increased by as much as 70%, causing us to incur higher levels of cost of goods sold. Moreover, we were not able to pass on the entire increase in cost to customers as quickly as we incurred them from our suppliers, resulting in significant margin compression in fiscal year 2006. 5 Our supply of product is imported from Asian manufacturers and is susceptible to disruption. The vast preponderance of our products are imported from Asian manufacturers. Should there be disruptions in the supply chain due to factors such as product shortages, labor unrest or work stoppages, we may be unable to continue to supply products on a timely basis, which would likely adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. If this were to occur, we would need a significant amount of time to establish domestic or other alternative suppliers for these products. Currency fluctuations may affect our profitability. Our cost of goods are affected by foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar. A fall in the value of the dollar could adversely impact profit margins and/or desirability of foreign manufactured products. We must properly manage our inventory to maintain our business and profit margin. Managing our inventory including volume and product mix is a complex task. A number of factors, including the need to maintain a significant inventory of certain sizes or products which are in short supply or which must be purchased in bulk to obtain favorable pricing, the general unpredictability of demand for specific products and customer requests for quick delivery schedules, may result in us maintaining excess inventory. Other factors, including changes in market demand and technology, may cause certain of our inventory to become obsolete. Any excess or obsolete inventory could result in price reductions and inventory write-downs, which, in turn, could adversely affect our operating results. We may be subject to product liability claims. Participants in the medical supplies business are potentially subject to lawsuits alleging product liability, many of which involve significant damage claims and defense costs. A successful claim against us in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Claims made against us, regardless of their merit, could also have a material adverse effect on our reputation. There is no assurance that the coverage limits of our insurance policies will be adequate or that present levels of coverage will be available at affordable rates in the future either to cover medical-related claims or to qualify us as a supplier to key accounts (which may require product liability coverage at limits in excess of what we can obtain or afford). While we have been able to obtain product liability insurance in the past, such insurance varies in cost, is difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms or at all. There can be no assurance that our insurance will be sufficient to meet any recovery for which we may be found liable, that the outcome of such suits will not materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, or that our deductible obligation (to fund a portion of the initial cost of defense and/or liability of each such lawsuit) will not prove financially burdensome. Our products are subject to government regulation which could cause disruptions to our supply. Our products are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and other countries, particularly to safety and adherence to Quality System Regulations (“QSR’s”) for medical devices. In the United States, examination gloves are classified as a Class I medical device product regulated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Noncompliance with these FDA regulations can result in administrative enforcement, such as warning letters, import alerts, administrative detention or in civil penalties, product bans and recalls. Periodically, the FDA inspects shipments of medical gloves as they arrive in the United States ports. The FDA inspections and reviews may cause delays in product delivery and this can result in a loss or delay in recognition of sales and income by us. Additionally, if our gloves fail to meet the FDA requirements and we become subject to FDA penalties, warnings, or recalls, such penalties or recalls could have a material adverse effect on our business reputation and financial condition. The FDA may also inspect our suppliers’ manufacturing facilities for compliance with QSR’s, which incorporate pre-production design and development to achieve consistency with quality system requirements worldwide. If our suppliers fail to comply with regulatory requirements, they could be required to shut down, which in turn will have a material adverse effect on the supply of our products. As a result of these events, our business financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 6 We depend on key management employees. We believe that our current operations and future success depend largely on the continued services of our management employees, in particular Alan Zeffer, our president and chief executive officer. Although we have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Zeffer, he may voluntarily terminate his employment with us at any time. We do not have “key man” life insurance on Mr. Zeffer. The loss of Alan Zeffer's services, or other key management personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Common Stock The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may result in losses for investors. In recent years, the stock market in general, including shares of our common stock, has experienced extreme price fluctuations. The market price of our Common Stock may be significantly affected by various factors such as: quarterly variations in our operating results; changes in our revenue growth rates; the loss of a significant customer, customer group or sales contract; changes in earnings estimates by market analysts; the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; speculation in the press or analyst community; the inability of the market to absorb selling pressure from one or more large institutional shareholders; and general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries. There can be no assurance that the market price of our common stock will not experience significant fluctuations in the future. Our common stock is thinly traded, which may make it more difficult for you to resell shares when you want at prices you find attractive. Our common stock is thinly traded. Securities that are thinly traded often experience a significant spread between the market maker's bid and ask prices. Therefore, prices for actual transactions in securities may be difficult to obtain and holders of our common stock may be unable to resell their shares when they want at prices they find attractive. We have never paid dividends on our Common Stock and do not intend to do so in the future. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, we have obtained loan and equity financing under agreements that restrict our ability to pay dividends or take certain corporate actions. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on our compliance with these provisions and on our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors. Our shares that are eligible for future sale may have an adverse effect on the price of our Common Stock. As of September 12, 2006, we had 1,375,511 shares of common stock outstanding. Of the shares outstanding, approximately all shares were freely tradable without substantial restriction or the requirement of future registration under the Securities Act. In addition, as of September 12, 2006, options to purchase approximately 227,961 shares and warrants to purchase 2,380,466 shares of our Common Stock were outstanding. Sales of substantial amounts of Common Stock, or a perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. It may be more difficult to trade our Common Stock if we cannot maintain our Nasdaq listing. Our common stock is currently listed for trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The Nasdaq Stock Market maintenance rules require among other things that our common stock price remain above $1.00 per share and that we have minimum net tangible assets in excess of $2 million. We were required to conduct a 3 to 1 reverse stock split in 2004 to maintain a sufficient per share price to preserve our listing on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Additionally, we were involved in a delisting proceeding with the Nasdaq Stock Market in June 2006 for our failure to maintain compliance with certain quantitative listing standards (refer to Note R of our consolidated financial statements). If we were delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market, the following could occur: · broker-dealers could be less willing to effect transactions in our common stock; · the news coverage associated with Nasdaq traded stocks would be lost; · our Common Stock price could decrease; and · investors could find it difficult to sell or obtain accurate quotations for the market value of our common stock and, thus, may hold a highly illiquid security. 7 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. ITEM 