Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and the investment in our securities are subject to various risks and uncertainties. In addition to the risks and uncertainties set forth below related to our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance or cash flows, we may face other risks and uncertainties, some of which may be unknown to us. These risks and uncertainties may cause an investment in our securities to decline and result in a loss. Disruptions in the financial markets have created uncertainty and deteriorating economic conditions may adversely affect our business and financial condition. The financial markets in the United States, Europe, South America and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months. As widely reported, these markets have experienced, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, commodities and currencies; severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades and declining valuations of certain investments. The current tightening of credit in financial markets, the inability to access capital markets, the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and on our sales, pricing and profitability. Continuation or worsening of the current economic conditions, a prolonged global, national or regional economic recession or other similar events could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and on our sales, pricing and profitability. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries and the impact these events may have on our operations and the industry in general. 9 Our business may suffer as a result of a substantial or extended decline in pricing, demand and other factors beyond our control, which could negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. Our businesses are cyclical and have experienced significant difficulties in the past. Our financial performance depends, in large part, on varying conditions in the domestic and international markets we serve, which fluctuate in response to various factors beyond our control. The prices at which we sell our coal and natural gas are largely dependent on prevailing market prices for those products. We have experienced significant price fluctuations in our coal and natural gas businesses, and we expect that such fluctuations will continue. Demand for and, therefore, the price of, coal and natural gas are driven by a variety of factors such as availability, price, location and quality of competing sources of coal or natural gas, availability of alternative fuels or energy sources, government regulation and economic conditions. In addition, reductions in the demand for metallurgical coal caused by reduced steel production by our customers, increases in the use of substitutes for steel (such as aluminum, composites or plastics) and the use of steel-making technologies that use less or no metallurgical coal can significantly affect our financial results and impede growth. Demand for steam coal is primarily driven by the consumption patterns of the domestic electric power generation industry, which, in turn, is influenced by demand for electricity and technological developments. We estimate that a 10% decrease in the price of coal in 2008 would have resulted in a reduction in pre-tax income of $83.7 million. Demand for natural gas is also affected by storage levels of natural gas in North America and consumption patterns, which can be affected by weather conditions. We estimate that a 10% decrease in the price in natural gas in 2008 would have resulted in a reduction in pre-tax income of approximately $1.3 million in that year, which includes the benefit of hedges. Occasionally we utilize derivative commodity instruments to manage fluctuations in natural gas prices. If we choose not to engage in, or reduce our use of hedging arrangements in the future, we may be more adversely affected by changes in natural gas pricing. Currently, we have hedged approximately 7% of our anticipated 2009 natural gas production at an average price of $9.06 per mmbtu. The failure of our customers to honor or renew contracts could adversely affect our business. A significant portion of the sales of our coal and methane gas are to long-term customers. The success of our businesses depends on our ability to retain our current clients, renew our existing customer contracts and solicit new customers. Our ability to do so generally depends on a variety of factors, including the quality and price of our products, our ability to market these products effectively and the level of competition we face. If current customers do not honor current contract commitments, terminate agreements or exercise force majeure provisions allowing for the temporary suspension of performance, our revenues will be adversely affected and may negatively impact our collection of trade receivables from our customers. If we are unsuccessful in renewing contracts with our long-term customers and they discontinue purchasing coal or methane gas from us, renew contracts on terms less favorable than in the past, or if we are unable to sell our coal or methane gas to new customers on terms as favorable to us, our revenues could suffer significantly. Coal mining is subject to inherent risks and is dependent upon many factors and conditions beyond our control, which may cause our profitability and our financial position to decline. A majority of our coal mining operations are conducted in underground mines and the balance of our operations is surface mining operations. Coal mining is subject to inherent risks and is dependent upon a number of conditions beyond our control that can affect our costs and production schedules at particular mines. These risks and conditions include: •variations in geological conditions, such as the thickness of the coal seam and amount of rock embedded in the coal deposit; •unexpected equipment or maintenance problems; 10 •adverse weather and natural disasters, such as heavy rains and flooding; •the shortage of qualified labor; •strikes and other labor-related interruptions; •environmental hazards, such as subsidence and excess water ingress; •delays and difficulties in acquiring, maintaining or renewing necessary permits or mining rights; and •unexpected mine accidents, including explosions caused by the ignition of coal dust, methane or other explosive sources at our mines sites or fires caused by the spontaneous combustion of coal. These risks and conditions could result in damage to or the destruction of mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage, delays in mining, monetary losses and legal liability. For example, an explosion and fire occurred in Mine No. 5 in September 2001. This accident resulted in the deaths of thirteen employees and caused extensive damage to the mine. Our insurance coverage may not be available or sufficient to fully cover claims which may arise from these risks and conditions. We have also experienced adverse geological conditions in our mines, such as variations in coal seam thickness, variations in the competency and make-up of the roof strata, fault-related discontinuities in the coal seam and the potential for ingress of excessive amounts of methane gas or water. Such adverse conditions may increase our cost of sales and reduce our profitability, and may cause us to decide to close a mine. Any of these risks or conditions could have a negative impact on our profitability, the cash available from our operations and our financial position. Defects in title of any real property or leasehold interests in our properties could limit our ability to mine these properties or result in significant unanticipated costs. Our right to mine some of our reserves may be materially adversely affected by defects in title or boundaries. In order to obtain mining contracts or leases or to conduct our mining operations on property where these defects exist, we may in the future have to incur unanticipated costs or could even lose our right to mine, which could adversely affect our profitability. If transportation for our coal becomes unavailable or uneconomic for our customers, our ability to sell coal could suffer. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal to the customer and, as a result, the cost of transportation is a critical factor in a customer's purchasing decision. Increases in our transportation costs could make our coal less competitive with the same or alternative products from competitors with lower transportation costs. We typically depend upon overland conveyor, rail or barge to deliver coal to the Port of Mobile, Alabama. While our coal customers typically arrange and pay for transportation from the Port of Mobile to the point of use, disruption of any of these transportation services because of weather-related problems, strikes, lock-outs, transportation delays or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply our products to our customers, thereby resulting in lost sales and reduced profitability. All of our metallurgical mines are served by only one rail carrier, which increases our vulnerability to these risks, although our access to barge transportation partially mitigates that risk. In addition, port congestion in the Port of Mobile and delayed coal shipments result in demurrage fees to us. If this disruption were to persist over an extended period of time, demurrage costs could significantly impact profits. We face significant competition and this competition could harm our sales, profitability and cash flows. The consolidation of the U.S. coal industry over the last several years has contributed to increased competition among coal producers. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial 11 resources than we do. This competition may affect domestic coal prices and impact our ability to retain or attract customers. In addition, our coal business faces competition from foreign producers that sell their coal in the export market. The general economic conditions in foreign markets and changes in currency exchange rates are factors outside of our control that may affect coal prices If our competitors' currencies decline against the U.S. dollar or against our customers' currencies, those competitors may be able to offer lower prices to our customers. Furthermore, if the currencies of our overseas customers were to significantly decline in value in comparison to the U.S. dollar, those customers may seek decreased prices for the coal we sell to them. In addition, these factors may negatively impact our collection of trade receivables from our customers. These factors could reduce our profitability or result in lower coal sales. Our business is subject to risk of cost increases and fluctuations and delay in the delivery of raw materials and purchased components. Our business requires significant amounts of raw materials and labor and, therefore, shortages or increased costs of raw materials and labor could adversely affect our business or results of operations. Our coal mining operations rely on the availability of steel, petroleum products and other raw materials for use in various mining equipment. The availability and market prices of these materials are influenced by various factors that are beyond our control. Over the last year petroleum prices have risen significantly and historically, pricing for steel scrap and petroleum have fluctuated. Any inability to secure a reliable supply of these materials or shortages in raw materials used in the manufacturing of mining equipment or replacement parts could negatively impact our operating results. Work stoppages, labor shortages and other labor relations matters may harm our business. The majority of our employees within the Natural Resources and Sloss businesses are unionized and we have a risk of work stoppages as the result of strike or lockout. The majority of employees of JWR are members of United Mine Workers of America ("UMWA"). Normally, our negotiations with the UMWA follow the national contract negotiated with the UMWA by the Bituminous Coal Operators Association. The collective bargaining agreement expires December 31, 2011. At our Sloss subsidiary, our contract with the United Steelworkers of America expires December 6, 2010. We experienced a strike at Sloss at the end of 2001 that lasted eight months. Future work stoppages, labor union issues or labor disruptions at our key customers or service providers could impede our ability to produce and deliver our products, to receive critical equipment and supplies or to collect payment. This may increase our costs or impede our ability to operate one or more of our operations. We require a skilled workforce to run our business. If we cannot hire qualified people to meet replacement or expansion needs, we may not be able to achieve planned results. The demand for coal in recent years has caused a significant constriction of the labor supply resulted in higher labor costs. As coal producers compete for skilled miners, employee turnover rates have increased which negatively affects operating costs. If the shortage of skilled workers continues and we are unable to train and retain the necessary number of miners, it could adversely affect our productivity, costs and ability to expand production. We have reclamation and mine closure obligations. If the assumptions underlying our accruals are inaccurate, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. The Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act established operational, reclamation and closure standards for all aspects of surface mining as well as most aspects of deep mining. We accrue for the costs of final mine closure. Estimates of our total reclamation and mine-closing liabilities are based upon permit requirements and our experience. The amounts recorded are dependent upon a number of variables, including the estimated future retirement costs, estimated proven reserves, assumptions 12 involving profit margins, inflation rates, and the assumed credit-adjusted risk-free interest rates. Furthermore, these obligations are unfunded. If these accruals are insufficient or our liability in a particular year is greater than currently anticipated, our future operating results could be adversely affected. Factors impacting our forecasts of future performance, reserve estimates and a decline in pricing could affect our revenues. Forecasts of our future performance are based on estimates of our recoverable coal reserves. Reserve estimates are based on a number of sources of information, including engineering, geological, mining and property control maps, our operational experience of historical production from similar areas with similar conditions and assumptions governing future pricing and operational costs. Reserves estimates will change periodically to reflect mining activities, the acquisition or divestiture of reserve holdings and modifications of mining plans. Certain factors beyond our control could affect the accuracy of these estimates, including unexpected mining conditions, future coal prices, operating and development costs and federal, state and local regulations affecting mining operations. In addition, since we deplete our reserves as we mine, the ability to acquire additional reserves that are economically recoverable at the time and have comparable costs is paramount. Our results of operations are dependent upon our ability to mine our reserves and the prices at which we sell our coal. A decline in reserves or an inability to acquire additional reserves could adversely affect our operating results and profitability. The government extensively regulates our mining operations, which imposes significant costs on us, and future regulations could increase those costs or limit our ability to produce coal. Federal, state and local authorities regulate the coal mining industry with respect to matters such as employee health and safety, permitting and licensing requirements, air quality standards, water pollution, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, the discharge of materials into the environment, surface subsidence from underground mining, and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. In addition, we are subject to significant legislation mandating specified benefits for retired coal miners. Numerous governmental permits and approvals are required for mining operations. We are required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that any proposed exploration for or production of coal may have upon the environment. Compliance with these regulations may be costly and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations. The possibility exists that new legislation and/or regulations and orders may be adopted that may have a material adverse effect on our mining operations, our cost structure and/or our customers' ability to use coal. New legislation or administrative regulations (or judicial interpretations of existing laws and regulations), including proposals related to the protection of the environment that would further regulate and tax the coal industry, may also require us or our customers to change operations significantly or incur increased costs. Global climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention with widespread concern about the impacts of human activity, especially the emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs), such as carbon dioxide and methane. Combustion of fossil fuels, such as the coal and gas we produce, results in the creation of carbon dioxide that is currently emitted into the atmosphere by coal and gas end users. Numerous proposals have been made and are likely to continue to be made at the international, national, regional, and state levels of government that are intended to limit emissions of GHGs. In addition, the United States and over 160 other nations are signatories to the 1992 Framework Convention on Climate Change, which is intended to limit emissions of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide. In December 1997, in Kyoto, Japan, the signatories to the convention established a binding set of emission targets for developed nations. Although the specific emission 13 targets vary from country to country, the United States would have been required to reduce emissions to 93% of 1990 levels over a five-year budget period from 2008 through 2012. Although the United States has not ratified the emission targets and no comprehensive regulations focusing on U.S. GHGs are in place, a 2007 U.S. Supreme Court case upheld the authority of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to regulate GHG's under the Clean Air Act and a number of states have filed lawsuits seeking to force the EPA to adopt GHG regulations. In July 2008, the EPA published an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking comments and discussion of the complex issues associated with the possible regulation of greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act. These regulations or other efforts to stabilize or reduce greenhouse gas emissions, could adversely impact the price of and demand for coal. Coalbed methane must be expelled from our underground coal mines for mining safety reasons. Our gas operations capture coalbed methane from our underground coal mines, although some coalbed methane is vented into the atmosphere when the coal is mined. If regulation of GHG emissions does not exempt the release of coalbed methane, we may have to curtail coal production, pay higher taxes, or incur costs to purchase credits that permit us to continue operations as they now exist at our underground coal mines. The amount of coalbed methane we capture is recorded, on a voluntary basis, with the U.S Department of Energy. We have recorded the amounts we have captured since 1992 and Jim Walter Resources, Inc. has registered as an offset provider of credits with the Chicago Climate Exchange. If regulation of GHGs does not give us credit for capturing methane that would otherwise be released into the atmosphere at our coal mines, any value associated with our historical or future credits would be reduced or eliminated. Recent mining accidents involving fatalities in Utah, West Virginia, Kentucky and Mexico have received national attention and prompted responses at the state and federal level that have resulted in increased scrutiny of current safety practices and procedures in the mining industry. For example, on January 26, 2006, West Virginia passed a new law imposing stringent new mine safety and accident reporting requirements and increased civil and criminal penalties for violations of mine safety laws. Other states have proposed or passed similar bills and resolutions addressing mine safety practices. On January 25, 2006, an Alabama circuit judge ordered the Alabama governor and legislature to take action to ensure the safety of Alabama's mineworkers. In addition, several mine safety bills have been introduced in Congress that would mandate improvements in mine safety practices, increase or add civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with such laws or regulations, and expand the scope of federal oversight, inspection and enforcement activities. On February 7, 2006, the federal Mine Safety and Health Administration announced the promulgation of new emergency rules on mine safety. These rules address mine safety, equipment, training and emergency reporting requirements. On June 15, 2006, the Federal Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response (MINER) Act of 2006 was signed into law and implementation of the specific requirements is currently underway. The implementation of these new requirements will cause us to incur substantial additional costs which will impact our operating costs. The additional requirements of the MINER Act and implementing federal regulations include, among other things, expanded emergency response plans, providing additional quantities of breathable air for emergencies, installation of refuge chambers in underground coal mines, installation of two-way communications and tracking systems for underground coal mines, new standards for sealing mined out areas of underground coal mines, more available mine rescue teams and enhanced training for emergencies. 14 Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could subject us to liability for fines, clean-ups and other damages, require us to incur significant costs to modify our operations and increase our costs. We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment and human health and safety, both with respect to the construction and operation of our mines and other facilities and with respect to remediating environmental conditions that may exist at our own and other properties. Certain of our facilities have been in operation for many years and, over time, we and predecessor operators of these facilities may have generated, used, handled and disposed of hazardous and other regulated wastes. Environmental liabilities could exist, including cleanup obligations at these or at other locations where materials from our operations were disposed of, which could result in future expenditures that cannot be currently quantified and which could reduce our profits. Failure to comply with any environmental, health or safety requirements could result in the assessment of damages, or imposition of penalties, suspension of production, a required upgrade or change to equipment or processes or a cessation of operations at one or more of our facilities. Because these laws are complex, constantly changing and may be applied retroactively, there is a risk that these requirements, in particular as they change in the future, may impair our business, profitability and results of operations. We may be required to conduct investigations and perform remedial activities that could require us to incur material costs in the future. Our operations involve the use of hazardous substances and the disposal of hazardous wastes. We may incur costs to manage these substances and wastes and may be subject to claims for damage for personal injury, property damages or damage to natural resources. Our expenditures for postretirement benefit and pension obligations are significant and could be materially higher than we have predicted if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect. We provide a range of benefits to our employees and retired employees, including pensions and postretirement healthcare. We record annual amounts relating to these plans based on calculations specified by generally accepted accounting principles, which include various actuarial assumptions. As of December 31, 2008, we estimate that our pension plans' aggregate accumulated benefit obligation had a present value of approximately $185.2 million, and our fair value of plan assets was approximately $128.3 million. As of December 31, 2008, we estimate that our postretirement health care and life insurance plans' aggregate accumulated benefit obligation would have had a present value of approximately $369.1 million, and such benefits are not required to be funded. In respect of the funding obligations for our pension plans, we must make minimum cash contributions on a quarterly basis. The current volatile economic environment and the rapid deterioration in the equity markets have caused investment income and the values of investment assets held in our pension trust to decline and lose value. As a result, we may be required to increase the amount of cash contributions we make into the pension trust in the future in order to meet the funding level requirements of the Pension Act. Our estimated minimum funding obligation relating to these plans in 2009 is $29.6 million. We have estimated these obligations based on assumptions described under the heading "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Employee Benefits" in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. Assumed health care cost trend rates, discount rates, expected return on plan assets and salary increases have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the pension and health care plans. If our assumptions do not materialize as expected, cash expenditures and costs that we incur could be materially higher. Moreover, regulatory changes could increase our obligations to provide these or additional benefits. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries participate in multiemployer pension and healthcare plan trusts established for union employees. Contributions to these funds could increase as a result of future collective bargaining with the UMWA, a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency of other coal companies who currently contribute to these funds, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets, or other funding deficiencies. 15 We have no current intention to withdraw from any multiemployer pension plan, but if we were to do so, under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), we would be liable for a proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested benefit liabilities upon our withdrawal. Through July 1, 2009, our withdrawal liability for the multiemployer pension plans amounts to $204.3 million. We self-insure workers' compensation and certain medical and disability benefits, and greater than expected claims could reduce our profitability. We are self-insured for workers' compensation benefits for work-related injuries. Workers' compensation liabilities, including those related to claims incurred but not reported, are recorded principally using annual valuations based on discounted future expected payments using historical data of the division or combined insurance industry data when historical data is limited. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are responsible for medical and disability benefits for black lung disease under the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as amended, and is self-insured against black lung related claims. We perform an annual evaluation of the overall black lung liabilities at the balance sheet date, using assumptions regarding rates of successful claims, discount factors, benefit increases and mortality rates, among others. Based on the actuarially determined present value of workers' compensation liabilities using a discount factor of 1.89% and 4.22% for 2008 and 2007, respectively, we have recorded liabilities of $37.6 million and $33.7 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. A one-percentage-point increase in the discount rate on the discounted claims liability at December 31, 2008 would decrease our liability by $0.2 million, while a one-percentage-point decrease in the discount rate would increase our liability by $0.2 million. If the number or severity of claims for which we are self insured increases, or we are required to accrue or pay additional amounts because the claims prove to be more severe than our original assessment, our operating results could be reduced. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions and may diminish our ability to make payments on our indebtedness. Our 2005 Credit Agreement contains various covenants that limit our ability to engage in certain transactions. Our 2005 Credit Agreement requires the maintenance of specified financial ratios and the satisfaction of other financial condition tests. Specifically, our ability to make investments, cash acquisitions and repurchase shares and pay dividends is more restrictive if our consolidated senior secured leverage ratio, as defined, is greater than 1.50 to 1.00. In addition, our 2005 Credit Agreement requires us to provide regular financial information to our lenders. Such requirements generally may be satisfied by our timely filing with the SEC of annual and quarterly reports under the Exchange Act. Our ability to satisfy the financial ratios, tests or covenants related to our existing or future indebtedness can be affected by events beyond our control, and there is a risk that we will not meet those tests. A breach of any such covenants could result in a default under the 2005 Credit Agreement or under any other debt instrument that we may enter into in the future. If an event of default were not remedied after the delivery of notice of default and lapse of any relevant grace period, the holders of our debt could declare it immediately due and payable. Currently the majority of our coal and gas producing properties are located predominately in four counties in central Alabama, making us vulnerable to risks associated with having our production concentrated in one area. The vast majority of our mining properties are geographically concentrated in four counties in Alabama. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of production caused by significant governmental regulation, transportation 16 capacity constraints, curtailment of production, natural disasters or interruption of transportation or other events which impact this area. Our success depends on attracting and retaining key personnel. Our success depends partly upon the efforts and abilities of our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our management teams have significant experience in the industries in which we operate and have made an important contribution to our growth and success. Although we have been successful in attracting and retaining such people in the past, competition for highly skilled individuals is intense. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining such individuals in the future. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. We may be unsuccessful in identifying or integrating suitable acquisitions, which could impair our growth. Our growth strategy is built upon organic growth and on taking advantage of opportunities to acquire complementary businesses. This strategy depends on the availability of acquisition candidates with businesses that can be successfully integrated into our existing business and that will provide us with complementary capabilities, products or services. However, we may be unable to identify targets that will be suitable for acquisition. In addition, if we identify a suitable acquisition candidate, our ability to successfully implement the acquisition will depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to finance the acquisition. Our ability to finance our acquisitions is subject to a number of factors, including the availability of adequate cash from operations or of acceptable financing terms and the terms of our debt instruments. In addition, there are many challenges to integrating acquired companies and businesses in our company, including eliminating redundant operations, facilities and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining key employees, managing different corporate cultures and achieving cost reductions and cross-selling opportunities. We may not be able to meet these challenges in the future. The price of our common stock may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control. Our share price is likely to fluctuate in the future because of the volatility of the stock market in general and a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: •general economic conditions that impact infrastructure activity, including interest rate movements; •quarterly variations in actual or anticipated results of our operations; •speculation in the press or investment community; •changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; •actions or announcements by our competitors; •actions by our principal stockholders; •trading volumes of our common stock; •regulatory actions; •litigation; •U.S. and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; •loss or gain of a major customer; •additions or departures of key personnel; and •future sales of our common stock. Market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of shares of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of your investment. You should also be aware that price 17 volatility may be greater if the public float and trading volume of shares of our common stock is low. In addition, if our operating results and net income fail to meet the expectations of stock analysts and investors, we may experience an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our stock. Our ability to pay regular dividends to our stockholders is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and may be limited by our holding company structure, the covenants in our debt instruments and applicable provisions of Delaware law. Our board of directors may, in its discretion, decrease the level of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. In addition, as a holding company, we will be dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to generate earnings and cash flows and distribute them to us so that we may pay our obligations and expenses and pay dividends to our stockholders. Our ability to pay future dividends and the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us will be subject to our and their respective operating results, cash requirements and financial condition, the applicable laws of the State of Delaware (which may limit the amount of funds available for distribution), compliance with covenants and financial ratios related to existing or future indebtedness and other agreements with third parties. If, as a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, we are unable to generate sufficient distributions from our business, we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce or eliminate, the payment of dividends on our shares. Our stockholder rights agreement could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could deter a change of control. On November 21, 2008, we adopted a rights agreement which, in certain circumstances, including a person or group acquiring, or the commencement of a tender or exchange offer that would result in a person or group acquiring, beneficial ownership of more than 20% of the outstanding shares of common stock, would entitle each right holder, other than the person or group triggering the plan, to receive, upon exercise of the right, shares of common stock having a value equal to twice the exercise price of a right. This rights agreement provides us with a defensive mechanism that decreases the risk that a hostile acquirer will attempt to take control of the Company without negotiating directly with our Board of Directors. This and other provisions of our rights agreement may discourage third parties from attempting to purchase our Company, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock. We may incur substantial expenses and payments if the spin-off and merger of our financing business merger does not occur. We have announced the spin-off and a merger of our finance business with Hanover Capital Mortgage Holdings, Inc. ("HCM") a publicly traded real estate investment trust. It is possible that the merger may not be completed. The closing of the merger depends on the satisfaction or waiver of specified conditions. Some of these conditions are beyond our control. For example, the closing of the merger is conditioned on approval by HCM's stockholders. If this approval is not received the merger cannot be completed even if all of the other conditions to the merger are satisfied or waived. If the merger is not completed, we will have incurred substantial expenses without realizing the expected benefits of the transactions. In addition, we may also be subject to additional risks if the merger is not completed, including: •substantial costs related to the merger, such as legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, must be paid regardless of whether the spin-off and merger is completed; •potential disruption to our businesses and distraction of our workforce and management team; and •a decline in the price of our common stock to the extent that the market price reflects positive market assumptions that the spin-off and the merger will be completed and the related benefits will be realized. 18 If the spin-off does not constitute a tax-free spin-off or the merger does not constitute a tax-free reorganization under the Code, then one or more of the Company and its stockholders may be responsible for the payment of U.S. federal income taxes. The spin-off and merger of our financing business are conditioned upon, among other things, Walter's receipt of a ruling from the IRS to the effect that (among other things) the spin-off would be tax-free to the Company and its stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 355 of the Code. Although a private letter ruling from the IRS is generally binding upon the IRS, if the factual representations or assumptions made in the letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, then the Company will not be able to rely on the ruling. In addition, the IRS will not rule on whether a distribution satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code. Therefore, the spin-off and merger are also conditioned on the Company's receipt of an opinion from its accountants as to the satisfaction of these required qualifying conditions for the application to the spin-off of Section 355 of the Code. The tax opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts. Lastly, the spin-off and merger are conditioned, among other things, on the Company's receipt of an opinion from its legal counsel and counsel representing Hanover Capital Mortgage Holdings, Inc. ("HCM"), each to the effect that the merger will be treated as a tax-free reorganization within the meaning of Section 368 of the Code. On February 17, 2009, the merger agreement was amended to eliminate the right to waive the condition to closing relating to receipt by the Company of rulings from the IRS and an opinion from the Company's accountants in respect of the tax-free nature of the spin-off and certain other federal income tax consequences of the spin-off and merger. These opinions will rely on, among other things, current law and certain representations and assumptions as to factual matters made by the Company and HCM. Any change in applicable law or the failure of any factual representation or assumption to be true and complete in all material respects, could adversely affect the conclusions reached in these opinions. The opinions will not be binding on the IRS or the courts, and the IRS and the courts may not agree with the opinions. Following the spin-off and merger of the financing business, the surviving corporation may not be able to satisfy certain indemnification obligations to the Company. The surviving corporation following the merger of the financing business with Hanover Capital Mortgage Holdings, Inc. ("HCM"), as successor to the financing business, will be party to certain agreements with the Company, including a tax sharing agreement, transition services and a joint litigation agreement. Under the terms of the tax sharing agreement, to the extent that the Company or the surviving corporation takes any action that would be inconsistent with the treatment of the spin-off of the financing business from the Company as a tax-free transaction under Section 355 of the Code, then any tax resulting from such actions will be attributable to the acting company and will result in indemnification obligations that could be significant. Under the terms of the transition services agreement, the Company and the financing business will provide certain services to each party for a limited duration. Under the terms of the joint litigation agreement, the surviving corporation, as successor to the financing business, will indemnify the Company for certain liabilities arising from businesses and operations of the financing business at the time of the spin-off. The ability to satisfy these indemnities if called upon to do so will depend upon the future financial strength of the surviving company. If the surviving corporation is unable to satisfy its obligations under its indemnity to us, we may have to satisfy those obligations. Our financing business is exposed to increased risks of delinquencies, defaults and losses on mortgages and loans associated with our strategy of providing credit or loans to lower credit grade borrowers. Our financing business specializes in originating and servicing mortgage notes and loans (which we refer to as "mortgage assets") to credit-impaired borrowers who are generally unable to qualify for loans from conventional mortgage sources due to loan size, credit characteristics or other requirements. 19 We are subject to various risks associated with the lower credit homeowners, including, but not limited to, the risk that these borrowers will not pay the principal and finance charges or interest when due, and that the value received from the sale of the borrower's home in a repossession will not be sufficient to repay the borrower's obligation to us. Delinquencies and defaults cause reductions in our interest income and our net income. If delinquency rates and losses are greater than we expect: •the fair market value of our ownership interest in the securitizations we have sponsored in the past may decline; or •the allowances that we establish for losses on mortgage assets may be insufficient, which could depress our business, financial condition, liquidity and net income. During economic slowdowns or recessions, mortgage and loan delinquencies and defaults generally increase. In addition, significant declines in market values of residences securing mortgages and loans reduce homeowners' equity in their homes. The limited borrowing power of our customers increases the likelihood of delinquencies, defaults and credit losses on foreclosure. Many of our borrowers have limited access to consumer financing for a variety of reasons, including a relatively high level of debt service, lower credit scores, higher loan-to-value ratios of the mortgage assets, past credit write-offs, outstanding judgments or prior bankruptcies. As a result, the actual rate of delinquencies, repossessions and credit losses on our loans are often higher under adverse economic conditions than those experienced in the mortgage loan industry in general. Approximately 2% of our mortgage portfolio is comprised of adjustable rate mortgage loans that require payment adjustments during the term of the loan. This adjustment in payment may result in increased payment defaults by borrowers who are unprepared or unable to meet higher payment requirements, resulting in higher losses to us. In addition, the rate of delinquencies may be higher after natural disasters or adverse weather conditions. For example, during 2005, Hurricane Katrina impacted several states where our mortgage asset portfolio had high concentrations of customers. As a result, our delinquency rate in those states increased substantially and we incurred a special $1.3 million provision for estimated losses on installment notes that was anticipated as a result. In 2008, Hurricanes Gustav and Ike also impacted the financing business, with recorded estimated losses of $3.9 million during its third quarter ended September 30, 2008, for these hurricane impacts. After a default by a borrower, we evaluate the cost effectiveness of repossessing the property. Such default may cause us to charge our allowances for credit losses on our loan portfolio. Any material decline in real estate values increases the loan-to-value ratios of our loans and the loans backing our mortgage related securities. This weakens collateral values and the amount, if any, obtained upon repossessions. If we must take losses on a mortgage or loan backing our mortgage related securities or loans that exceed our allowances, our financial condition, net income and cash flows could suffer. Our mortgage-backed and asset-backed securitizations require over-collateralization and credit enhancement, which may decrease our cash flow and net income. The financing business securitizations typically have over-collateralization requirements that may decrease the value of our ownership interests in our securitizations and have a negative impact on our cash flow. Generally, if the mortgage assets of a securitization trust perform poorly, the over-collateralization feature of the securitization directs excess cash flow from the securitized pool of mortgage assets to the senior debt securities of the trust. During any period in which this happens we may not receive any cash distributions from such mortgage trust. In addition, the pool of mortgage assets of a securitization must meet certain performance tests based on delinquency levels, losses and other criteria in order for us to receive excess cash flow. If these performance tests, or significant terms regarding the calculation of such tests, are not satisfied, we would not be permitted to receive excess cash flow from the securitizations. Material variations in the rate or timing of our receipt of cash 20 distributions from these mortgage assets may adversely affect our mortgage servicing business and net income and may affect our overall financial condition. We are subject to a number of federal, local and state laws and regulations that may prohibit or restrict our financing or servicing in some regions or areas. We are subject to a number of federal, state and local laws that affect sales, mortgage financing and servicing. There have been an increasing number of "anti-predatory" lending and consumer protection laws that impose restrictions on mortgage loans, including the amount of fees, interest or annual percentage rates that may be charged. As a result of current market conditions, the U.S. Congress has announced that it will be considering new legislation in the mortgage sector. To the extent that the enactment of new laws imposes broad restrictions on our homebuilding, financing and servicing, we may be subject to the imposition of requirements that offset sales, costs, profitability or may be prohibited or restricted from operating in certain regions or areas which could negatively impact our future revenue and earnings. Economic conditions in Texas, North Carolina, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida have a material impact on our financing business' profitability because it conducts a significant portion of our business in these markets. The mortgage assets of the financing business currently are concentrated in the Texas, North Carolina, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida markets. In the past, rates of loss and delinquency on mortgage assets have increased from time to time, driven primarily by weaker economic conditions in these markets. Furthermore, precarious economic and budget situations at the state government level may hinder the ability of our customers to repay their obligations in areas in which we conduct the majority of our financing operations. Our concentration of mortgage assets in such markets may have a negative impact on our operating results. Natural disasters and adverse weather conditions could disrupt our businesses and adversely affect our results of operations. The climates of many of the states in which the financing business operates, including Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Florida and Texas, present increased risks of natural disaster and adverse weather. Natural disasters or adverse weather in the areas in which we finance or insure homes or in nearby areas, have in the past, and may in the future, lead to significant insurance claims, cause increases in delinquencies and defaults in our mortgage portfolio and weaken the demand for new homes in affected areas, which could adversely affect its results. In addition, the rate of delinquencies may be higher after natural disasters or adverse weather conditions. For example, during the third quarter of 2008 and 2005 Hurricanes Ike, Gustav and Katrina impacted several states where our mortgage asset portfolio had high concentrations of customers. As a result, our delinquency rate in those states increased substantially and we incurred a special $3.9 million provision related to Hurricanes Ike and Gustav in 2008 and a provision of $1.3 million related to Hurricane Katrina in 2005, for estimated losses on installment notes that were anticipated as a result of the hurricanes. The occurrence of large loss events due to natural disasters or adverse weather could reduce the insurance coverage available to us, increase the cost of our insurance premiums and weaken the financial condition of our insurers, thereby limiting our ability to mitigate any future losses we may incur from such events. Moreover, severe flooding, wind and water damage, forced evacuations, contamination, gas leaks, fire and environmental and other damage caused by natural disasters or adverse weather could lead to a general economic downturn, including increased prices for oil, gas and energy, loss of jobs, regional disruptions in travel, transportation and tourism and a decline in real-estate related investments, especially in the areas most directly damaged by the disaster or storm. 21 The financing business is subject to a number of federal, local and state laws and regulations that may prohibit or restrict our financing or servicing in some regions or areas. The financing business is subject to a number of federal, state and local laws that affect mortgage financing and servicing. There have been an increasing number of "anti-predatory" lending and consumer protection laws that impose restrictions on mortgage loans, including the amount of fees, interest or annual percentage rates that may be charged. As a result of current market conditions, the U.S. Congress has announced that it will be considering new legislation in the mortgage sector. To the extent that the enactment of new laws imposes broad restrictions on our financing and servicing, we may be subject to the imposition of requirements that offset sales, costs, profitability or may be prohibited or restricted from operating in certain regions or areas which could negatively impact our future revenue and earnings. We may be required to satisfy certain indemnification obligations to Mueller Water or may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from Mueller Water. In connection with the spin-off of Mueller Water Products, Inc. ("Mueller Water") on December 14, 2006, we entered into certain agreements with Mueller Water, including an income tax allocation agreement and a joint litigation agreement. Under the terms of those agreements, we and Mueller Water agreed to indemnify each other with respect to the indebtedness, liabilities and obligations that will be retained by our respective companies, including certain tax and litigation liabilities. These indemnification obligations could be significant. For example, to the extent that we or Mueller Water take any action that would be inconsistent with the treatment of the spin-off of Mueller Water as a tax-free transaction under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, then any tax resulting from such actions is attributable to the acting company. The ability to satisfy these indemnities if called upon to do so will depend upon the future financial strength of each of our companies. We cannot determine whether we will have to indemnify Mueller Water for any substantial obligations after the distribution. If Mueller Water has to indemnify us for any substantial obligations, Mueller Water may not have the ability to satisfy those obligations. If Mueller Water is unable to satisfy its obligations under its indemnity to us, we may have to satisfy those obligations. We may have substantial additional federal tax liability for accounting adjustments related to our method of recognizing revenue on the sale of homes and interest on related installment note receivables, as well as to federal income taxes allegedly owed. The Internal Revenue Service has issued a Notice of Proposed Deficiency assessing additional tax of $82.2 million for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2000, December 31, 2000 and December 31, 2001. The proposed adjustments relate primarily to our method of recognizing revenue on the sale of homes and related interest on the installment note receivables. In addition, a controversy exists with regard to federal income taxes allegedly owed by our consolidated group of companies for fiscal years 1980 through 1994. It is estimated that the amount of tax presently claimed by the Internal Revenue Service is approximately $34.0 million for issues currently in dispute in bankruptcy court. This amount if determined to be owed would result in substantial interest and penalties. While we believe that our tax filing positions have substantial merit and intend to defend any tax claims asserted, we cannot offer any assurance that the Internal Revenue Service or a federal court will uphold our tax filing positions. Moreover, although we believe that we have sufficient accruals to address any such tax claims, including related interest and penalties, an adverse ruling, judgment or court order could impose significant financial liabilities in excess of our accruals, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could require a significant cash payment. Recently announced closure of the Homebuilding businesses may negatively impact results of operations. Any costs, taxes, charges and write-offs that result from a closure of our homebuilding operations will have a negative impact on our results of operations. Additionally, in connection with the 22 wind-down and closure of the homebuilding operations, we may agree to provide indemnities with respect to, or remain liable for, warranty, contractual, health and welfare benefit obligations, taxes and other liabilities of our Homebuilding business. These retained liabilities and indemnification obligations may be material and may result in us incurring additional expenses even after a wind-down and closure is completed, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments: None 23 