Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors relate to our acquisition of Western Coal Corp. ("Western") under the arrangement agreement entered into on December 2, 2010 (the "Arrangement Agreement"). Risk Factors Relating to the Arrangement Agreement with Western Failure to complete the Arrangement with Western could negatively impact our stock price and future business and financial results. The Arrangement Agreement contains a number of important conditions that must be satisfied before we can complete the acquisition of Western under the Arrangement Agreement, including, without limitation, certain conditions that may be outside of our control relating to (i) approval of the transaction by the Western Shareholders, (ii) receipt of required regulatory approvals, (iii) approval by the NYSE and the Toronto Stock Exchange of the listing of our common shares to be issued in the Arrangement, (iv) absence of certain actions, suits, proceedings or objection or opposition before any governmental or regulatory authority, and (v) obtaining a court approval under the Business Corporations Act (British Columbia) and a declaration following a court hearing that the arrangement is fair to Western shareholders. There can be no certainty, nor can we provide any assurance, that these conditions will be satisfied or, if satisfied, when they will be satisfied. If the arrangement is not completed, the market price of our common shares may decline to the extent that the market price reflects a market assumption that the arrangement will be completed. In addition, whether or not the transaction is completed, the pending transaction could adversely affect our operations because: •matters relating to the arrangement (including integration planning) require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management and employees, whether or not the transaction is completed, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us; and •our ability to attract new employees and consultants and retain existing employees and consultants may be harmed by uncertainties associated with the transaction, and we may be required to incur substantial costs to recruit replacements for lost personnel or consultants. We cannot guarantee when, or whether, the transactionwill be completed, that there will not be a delay in the completion of the transactionor that all or any of the anticipated benefits of the transactionwill be obtained. If the transaction is not completed or is delayed, we may experience the risks discussed above which may adversely affect our business, financial results and share price. Walter and Western may not integrate successfully. The transaction will involve the integration of companies that previously operated independently. In particular, the necessity of coordinating geographically dispersed organizations and addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. The integration will require the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily distract management's attention from the day-to-day operations of the businesses of the combined company. The process of integrating operations after the transaction could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of the combined company's businesses and the loss of key personnel. The difficulties management encounters in the transition and integration processes could have an adverse effect on the revenues, level of expenses and operating results of the combined company. As a result of these factors, it is possible that any benefits expected from the acquisition will not be realized. 21 Walter will incur significant transaction, combination-related and restructuring costs in connection with the transaction, some of which will be incurred even if the transaction is never completed. We expect that we will be obligated to pay transaction fees and other expenses related to the transaction of approximately $35 million, including financial advisors' fees, filing fees, legal and accounting fees, regulatory fees and associated fees and costs. This amount is a preliminary estimate and the actual amount may be higher or lower but a significant portion of these fees and expenses will be incurred even if we do not complete the transaction. The Arrangement Agreement may be terminated by Western in certain circumstances, including in the event of the occurrence of a Walter Material Adverse Effect. Each of Walter and Western have the right to terminate the Arrangement Agreement and the arrangement in certain circumstances. Accordingly, there is no certainty, nor can we provide any assurance, that the Arrangement Agreement will not be terminated by either us or by Western before the completion of the arrangement. For example, Western has the right, in certain circumstances, to terminate the Arrangement Agreement if a Walter Material Adverse Effect occurs. Although a Walter Material Adverse Effect excludes certain events that are beyond our control, there can be no assurance that a Walter Material Adverse Effect will not occur before the consummation of the arrangement, in which case Western could elect to terminate the Arrangement Agreement and the transactionwould not proceed. In certain circumstances, Walter may be required to make an expense reimbursement payment to Western. Under the Arrangement Agreement, we would be required to make an expense reimbursement payment of reasonable and documented fees and expenses incurred by Western in the event we terminate the Arrangement Agreement under certain circumstances, including a breach of any representation or warranty by us or a failure on our part to perform any covenant or agreement which would cause the conditions precedent in favor of Western not to be satisfied. Additionally, if Walter fails to provide sufficient funds to complete the transaction as required by the Arrangement Agreement, we are obligated to pay Western a fee of $35 million. Risks Relating to the Business of Walter, Western and the Combined Company The business of the combined company will be subject to risks currently affecting the businesses of Walter and Western After the completion of the transaction, the business of the combined company, as well as the price of our common shares, will be subject to numerous risks currently affecting the businesses of Walter and Western, including: •unexpected changes in business and economic conditions; •significant increases or decreases in coal prices; •changes in interest and currency exchange rates including the LIBOR rate; •timing and amount of production; •unanticipated production problems; •changes in operating costs; •operational problems at the combined company's mining properties; •access and availability of material, equipment and supplies; •determination of reserves; •costs and timing of development of new reserves; •results of current and future development activities; •results of future feasibility studies; 22 •joint venture relationships; •political or economic instability, either globally or in the countries in which the companies operate; •local and community impacts and issues; •banking relationships; •timing of receipt of government approvals; •accidents and labor disputes; and •environmental costs and risks. The combined company's substantial debt could adversely affect its financial condition, and its related debt service obligations may adversely affect its cash flow and ability to invest in and grow its businesses. As of the closing of the transaction, Walter will have approximately $2.4 billion of indebtedness outstanding under a new $2.7 billion credit agreement ("Credit Agreement"). Under the repayment schedule relating to the Credit Agreement we will be required to make principal payments totaling at least $33.0 million in 2011 and at least $66.3 million in 2012. In addition, we will be required to pay a percentage of excess cash flow, as defined in the Credit Agreement, to reduce the principal balance of the indebtedness. If the combined company is unable to satisfy its indebtedness obligations, it will be unable to continue its operations, including its planned development and growth initiatives. Upon completion of the transaction, Walter will be required to comply with Canadian securities regulations and be subject to additional regulatory scrutiny in Canada. Walter will become a "reporting issuer" in Canada upon listing its shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange. As a result, we will be subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and costs associated with complying with Canadian securities legislation. We do not anticipate any particular regulation that would be difficult to comply with. However, failure to comply with regulations may result in civil awards, fines, penalties and orders that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Significant additional capital will be required to continue the current expansion plans of Walter and Western following completion of the Arrangement. Substantial funds for the establishment of future planned mining operations are required. No assurances can be given that we will be able to generate necessary cash flows from our existing operations or otherwise raise the additional funding that may be required for such activities. Coal prices, environmental rehabilitation or restitution, revenues, taxes, transportation costs, capital expenditures and operating expenses and geological results are all factors which will have an impact on the amount of additional capital that may be required. If we are unable to obtain the financing as needed, we may be required to reduce the scope of our operations or anticipated expansion, forfeit interest in some of our properties and licenses, incur financial penalties or reduce or terminate certain operations. 23 The following risk factors relate to our current continuing operations. Risks Associated with our Current Continuing Operations Unfavorable global economic, financial and business conditions may adversely affect our businesses. The global financial markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption over the last several years. These markets have experienced, among other things, volatility in security prices, commodities and currencies; diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades and declining valuations of certain investments. Although the global economic outlook improved throughout 2010 and into 2011, uncertainties remain. Weaknesses in global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our coal, coke and natural gas products and on our sales, pricing and profitability. We are not able to predict whether the global economic conditions will continue or worsen and the impact these events may have on our operations and the industry in general. Our businesses may suffer as a result of a substantial or extended decline in pricing, demand and other factors beyond our control, which could negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. Our businesses are cyclical and have experienced significant difficulties in the past. Our financial performance depends, in large part, on varying conditions in the international and domestic markets we serve, which fluctuate in response to various factors beyond our control. The prices at which we sell our coal, coke and natural gas are largely dependent on prevailing market prices for those products. We have experienced significant price fluctuations in our coal, coke and natural gas businesses, and we expect that such fluctuations will continue. Demand for and, therefore, the price of, coal, coke and natural gas are driven by a variety of factors such as availability, price, location and quality of competing sources of coal, coke or natural gas, availability of alternative fuels or energy sources, government regulation and economic conditions. In addition, reductions in the demand for metallurgical coal caused by reduced steel production by our customers, increases in the use of substitutes for steel (such as aluminum, composites or plastics) and the use of steel-making technologies that use less or no metallurgical coal can significantly affect our financial results and impede growth. Demand for steam coal is primarily driven by the price of steam coal and natural gas and the consumption patterns of the domestic electric power generation industry, which, in turn, is influenced by demand for electricity and technological developments. We estimate that a 10% decrease in the price of metallurgical coal in 2010 would have resulted in a reduction in pre-tax income of $129.5 million. Demand for natural gas is also affected by storage levels of natural gas in North America and consumption patterns, which can be affected by weather conditions. We estimate that a 10% decrease in the price in natural gas in 2010 would have resulted in a reduction in pre-tax income of approximately $4.8 million in that year, which includes the benefit of hedges. Occasionally we utilize derivative commodity instruments to manage fluctuations in natural gas prices. If we choose not to engage in, or reduce our use of hedging arrangements in the future, we may be more adversely affected by changes in the pricing of these commodities. Currently, we have not hedged any of our anticipated 2011 natural gas production. The failure of our customers to honor or renew contracts could adversely affect our business. A significant portion of the sales of our coal, coke and natural gas are to long-term customers. The success of our businesses depends on our ability to retain our current customers, renew our existing customer contracts and solicit new customers. Our ability to do so generally depends on a variety of factors, including the quality and price of our products, our ability to market these products effectively, our ability to deliver on a timely basis and the level of competition we face. If current customers do not honor current contract commitments, terminate agreements or exercise force majeure provisions allowing for the temporary suspension of performance, our revenues will be adversely affected. If we are unsuccessful in renewing contracts with our long-term customers and they 24 discontinue purchasing coal, coke or natural gas from us, renew contracts on terms less favorable than in the past, or if we are unable to sell our coal, coke or natural gas to new customers on terms as favorable to us, our revenues could suffer significantly. Coal mining is subject to inherent risks and is dependent upon many factors and conditions beyond our control, which may cause our profitability and our financial position to decline. The majority of our coal mining operations are conducted in underground mines and the balance of our operations is surface mining operations. Coal mining is subject to inherent risks and is dependent upon a number of conditions beyond our control that can affect our costs and production schedules at particular mines. These risks and conditions include, but are not limited to: •variations in geological conditions, such as the thickness of the coal seam and amount of rock embedded in the coal deposit; •mining, process and equipment or mechanical failures; •adverse weather and natural disasters, such as heavy rains and flooding; •environmental hazards, such as subsidence and excess water ingress; •delays and difficulties in acquiring, maintaining or renewing necessary permits or mining rights; and •unexpected mine accidents, including rock-falls and explosions caused by the ignition of coal dust, natural gas or other explosive sources at our mine sites or fires caused by the spontaneous combustion of coal. These risks and conditions could result in damage to or the destruction of mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage, delays in mining, monetary losses and legal liability. For example, an explosion and fire occurred in Mine No. 5 in September 2001. This accident resulted in the deaths of thirteen employees and caused extensive damage to the mine. Our insurance coverage may not be available or sufficient to fully cover claims which may arise from these risks and conditions. We have also experienced adverse geological conditions in our mines, such as variations in coal seam thickness, variations in the competency and make-up of the roof strata, fault-related discontinuities in the coal seam and the potential for ingress of excessive amounts of methane gas or water. Such adverse conditions may increase our cost of sales and reduce our profitability, and may cause us to decide to close a mine. Any of these risks or conditions could have a negative impact on our profitability, the cash available from our operations and our financial position. The financial performance of our coke business is dependent upon customers in the furnace and foundry industries whose failure to perform under their commitments with us could adversely affect our coke business. Substantially all of our domestic furnace and foundry coke sales are currently made under annual commitments with steel manufacturers and foundries. The global economic slowdown has caused a tightening on the steel industry and the domestic foundries. In the event of nonperformance by our current or future customers, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. Disruption in supplies of coal produced by third parties could temporarily impair our coking operation's ability to fill its customers' orders or increase its costs. Our coking operation purchases coal produced by third parties to meet customer specifications. Disruption in the supply of third-party coal could temporarily impair our ability to fill our customers' orders, maintain quality specifications or require us to pay higher prices in order to obtain the required coal from other sources. Any increase in the prices we pay for third-party coal could increase our costs and, therefore, lower our earnings. 25 Defects in title of any real property or leasehold interests in our properties could limit our ability to mine or develop these properties or result in significant unanticipated costs. Our right to mine some of our reserves and extract natural gas may be materially adversely affected by defects in title or boundaries. Any challenge to our title could delay the development of the property and could ultimately result in the loss of some or all of our interest in the property and could increase our costs. In addition, if we mine or conduct our natural gas operations on property that we do not own or lease, we could incur liability for such mining and gas operations. Some leases have minimum production requirements or require us to commence mining or gas operations in a specified term to retain the lease. Failure to meet those requirements could result in losses of prepaid royalties and, in some rare cases, could result in a loss of the lease itself. Currently our coal, coking and natural gas producing properties are located predominately in four counties in central Alabama, making us vulnerable to risks associated with having our production concentrated in one area. Our mining, coking and natural gas operations are geographically concentrated in four counties in Alabama. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of production caused by significant governmental regulation, transportation capacity constraints, curtailment of production, natural disasters or interruption of transportation or other events which impact this area. We are currently in the process of purchasing Western Coal, which will provide greater geographical diversification. A reduction in the demand for coal by our domestic electric utility customers would likely cause our surface mining revenues and profitability to decline significantly. The majority of our revenues from our surface mining operations are derived from contracts with domestic utility providers. Fuel cost is a significant component of the cost associated with coal-fired power generation, with respect to not only the price of the coal, but also the costs associated with emissions control and credits (i.e., sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, etc.), combustion by-product disposal (i.e., ash) and equipment operations and maintenance (i.e., materials handling facilities) of the utility providers. Further, current and future laws and regulations relating to the control of GHG emissions could increase coal-related costs of utility providers. All of these costs must be considered when choosing between coal generation and alternative methods, including natural gas, nuclear, hydroelectric and others. Any prolonged depression in the price of natural gas could cause our customers not to purchase steam coal from us. In addition, electric utility deregulation is expected to provide incentives to generators of electricity to minimize their fuel costs and is believed to have caused electric generators to be more aggressive in negotiating prices with coal suppliers. Downward economic pressures by our industrial customers will likely cause our profitability to decline. If transportation for our coal becomes unavailable or uneconomic for our customers, our ability to sell coal could suffer. Transportation costs can represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal to be delivered to the customer and, as a result, the cost of transportation is a critical factor in determining overall price. Increases in our transportation costs could make our coal less competitive with the same or alternative products from competitors with lower transportation costs. We typically depend upon overland conveyor, trucks, rail or barge to deliver our products. Disruption of any of these transportation services because of weather-related problems, which are variable and unpredictable; strikes, lock-outs; transportation delays or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply our products to our customers, thereby resulting in lost sales and reduced profitability. All of our metallurgical mines are served by only one rail carrier, which increases our vulnerability to these risks, although our access to barge transportation partially mitigates that risk. In addition, the majority of the metallurgical coal produced by our underground mining operations is sold to coal customers who typically arrange and pay for transportation through the state-run docks at the Port of Mobile, Alabama to the point of use. 26 As a result, disruption at the docks, port congestion and delayed coal shipments may result in demurrage fees to us. If this disruption were to persist over an extended period of time, demurrage costs could significantly impact profits. Significant competition and foreign currency fluctuations could harm our sales, profitability and cash flows. The consolidation of the U.S. coal industry over the last several years has contributed to increased competition among coal producers. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources than we do. This competition may affect domestic coal prices and impact our ability to retain or attract coal customers. In addition, our metallurgical coal business faces competition from foreign producers that sell their coal in the export market. The general economic conditions in foreign markets and changes in currency exchange rates are factors outside of our control that may affect international coal prices. If our competitors' currencies decline against the U.S. dollar or against our customers' currencies, those competitors may be able to offer lower prices to our customers. Furthermore, if the currencies of our overseas customers were to significantly decline in value in comparison to the U.S. dollar, those customers may seek decreased prices for the coal we sell to them. In addition, these factors may negatively impact our collection of trade receivables from our customers. These factors could reduce our profitability or result in lower coal sales. Our businesses are subject to risk of cost increases and fluctuations and delay in the delivery of raw materials, mining equipment and purchased components. Our businesses require significant amounts of raw materials, mining equipment and labor and, therefore, shortages or increased costs of raw materials, mining equipment and labor could adversely affect our business or results of operations. Our coal mining operations rely on the availability of steel, petroleum products and other raw materials for use in various mining equipment. The availability and market prices of these materials are influenced by various factors that are beyond our control. Over the last year petroleum prices have fluctuated significantly and pricing for steel scrap has fluctuated markedly. Any inability to secure a reliable supply of these materials or shortages in raw materials used in the operation and manufacturing of mining equipment or replacement parts could negatively impact our operating results. Work stoppages, labor shortages and other labor relations matters may harm our business. The majority of our employees in our underground mining and coking operations are unionized and we have a risk of work stoppages as the result of strike or lockout. The majority of employees of our underground mining operations are members of United Mine Workers of America ("UMWA"). Normally, our negotiations with the UMWA follow the national contract negotiated with the UMWA by the Bituminous Coal Operators Association. The collective bargaining agreement expires December 31, 2011. At our coking operation, our contract with the United Steelworkers of America expires December 6, 2015. We experienced a strike at our coke facilities at the end of 2001 that lasted eight months. Future work stoppages, labor union issues or labor disruptions at our key customers or service providers could impede our ability to produce and deliver our products, to receive critical equipment and supplies or to collect payment. This may increase our costs or impede our ability to operate one or more of our operations. We require a skilled workforce to run our business. If we cannot hire qualified people to meet replacement or expansion needs, we may not be able to achieve planned results. The demand for coal in recent years has caused a significant constriction of the labor supply resulting in higher labor costs. As coal producers compete for skilled miners, employee turnover rates have increased which negatively affects operating costs. If the shortage of skilled workers continues and we are unable to train and retain the necessary number of miners, it could adversely affect our productivity, costs and ability to expand production. 27 We have reclamation and mine closure obligations. If the assumptions underlying our accruals are inaccurate, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. The Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act established operational, reclamation and closure standards for all aspects of surface mining as well as most aspects of deep mining. We accrue for the costs of final mine closure. Estimates of our total reclamation and mine-closing liabilities are based upon permit requirements and our experience. The amounts recorded are dependent upon a number of variables, including the estimated future retirement costs, estimated proven reserves, assumptions involving profit margins, inflation rates, and the assumed credit-adjusted risk-free interest rates. Furthermore, these obligations are unfunded. If these accruals are insufficient or our liability in a particular year is greater than currently anticipated, our future operating results could be adversely affected. At December 31, 2010, we have accrued $25.3 million for our asset retirement obligations, most of which will be incurred at our underground mining operations at the end of the mines' life. Factors impacting our forecasts of future performance, reserve estimates and a decline in pricing could affect our revenues. Forecasts of our future performance are based on estimates of our recoverable coal reserves. Reserve estimates are based on a number of sources of information, including engineering, geological, mining and property control maps, our operational experience of historical production from similar areas with similar conditions and assumptions governing future pricing and operational costs. Reserve estimates will change periodically to reflect mining activities, the acquisition or divestiture of reserve holdings and modifications of mining plans. Certain factors beyond our control could affect the accuracy of these estimates, including unexpected mining conditions, future coal prices, operating and development costs and federal, state and local regulations affecting mining operations. In addition, since we deplete our reserves as we mine, the ability to acquire additional reserves that are economically recoverable at the time and have comparable costs is paramount. Our results of operations are dependent upon our ability to mine our reserves and the prices at which we sell our coal. A decline in reserves or an inability to acquire additional reserves could adversely affect our operating results and profitability. Extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations impose significant costs on our operations and future regulations could increase those costs, limit our ability to produce or adversely affect the demand for our products. Our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations with respect to matters such as: •permitting and licensing requirements; •employee health and safety, including: •occupational safety and health; •mine health and safety; •workers' compensation; •black lung; •reclamation and restoration of property; •environmental laws and regulations, including: •climate change; •air quality standards; •water quality standards; •management of materials generated by mining and coking operations; •the storage, treatment and disposal of wastes; 28 •remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater; •protection of human health, plant-life and wildlife, including endangered species, and emergency planning and community right to know. Compliance with these regulations may be costly and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production at our operations. These laws are constantly evolving and becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with existing laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable due in part to the fact that certain implementing regulations for these laws have not yet been promulgated and in certain instances are undergoing revision. These laws and regulations, particularly new legislative or administrative proposals (or judicial interpretations of existing laws and regulations) could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs and could have a material adverse effect on our operations and/or our customers' ability to use our products. We strive to conduct our mining, natural gas and coke operations in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations. However, due in part to the extensive and comprehensive regulatory requirements, along with changing interpretations of these requirements, violations occur from time to time in our industry and at our operations. In recent years, expenditures for regulatory or environmental obligations have been mainly for safety or process changes. Although it is not possible at this time to predict the final outcome of these rule-making and standard-setting efforts, it is likely that the magnitude of these changes will require an unprecedented compliance effort on our part, could divert management's attention, and may require significant expenditures. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, operating results will be reduced. We believe that our major North American competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus do not believe that our relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on our competitive position with regard to foreign producers and operators who may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities, applicable state legislation and its production methods. See also "Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters" in Part I of this Annual Report. Climate change concerns could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. The combustion of fossil fuels, such as the coal, coke and natural gas we produce, results in the creation of carbon dioxide that is currently emitted into the atmosphere by coal, coke and gas end-users. Further, some of our operations emit GHGs directly, such as methane incident to coal mining and carbon dioxide during our coke production. Carbon dioxide is considered a greenhouse gas and is a major source of concern with respect to global warming, also known as climate change. Climate change continues to attract public and scientific attention, and increasing government attention is being paid to reducing GHG emissions. There are many legal and regulatory approaches currently in effect or being considered to address GHGs, including possible future U.S. treaty commitments, new federal or state legislation that may impose a carbon emissions tax or establish a "cap and trade" program, and regulation by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. These existing laws and regulations or other current and future efforts to stabilize or reduce GHG emissions, could adversely impact the demand for, price of and the value of our products and reserves. Passage of additional state, federal or foreign laws or regulations regarding GHG emissions or other actions to limit GHG emissions could result in switching from coal to other fuel sources. The anticipation of such additional requirements could also lead to reduced demand for some of our products. Alternative fuels (including non-fossil fuels) could become more attractive than coal in order 29 to reduce GHG emissions, which could result in a reduction in the demand for coal and, therefore, our revenues. As our operations also emit GHGs directly, current or future laws or regulations limiting GHG emissions could increase our own costs. Although the potential impacts on us of additional climate change regulation are difficult to reliably quantify, they could be material. See also "Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters" in Part I of this Annual Report. Other Business Risks Our expenditures for postretirement benefit and pension obligations are significant and could be materially higher than we have predicted if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect. We provide a range of benefits to our employees and retirees, including pensions and postretirement healthcare. We record annual amounts relating to these plans based on calculations specified by generally accepted accounting principles, which include various actuarial assumptions. As of December 31, 2010, we estimate that our pension plans' aggregate accumulated benefit obligation had a present value of approximately $235.7 million, and our fair value of plan assets was approximately $191.7 million. As of December 31, 2010, we estimate that our postretirement health care and life insurance plans' aggregate accumulated benefit obligation would have had a present value of approximately $476.1 million, and such benefits are not required to be funded. In respect of the funding obligations for our pension plans, we must make minimum cash contributions on a quarterly basis. The weakening of the economic environment and uncertainty in the equity markets have caused investment income and the values of investment assets held in our pension trust to decline in the past and lose value. As a result, we may be required to increase the amount of cash contributions we make into the pension trust in the future in order to meet the funding level requirements of the Pension Act. Our estimated minimum funding obligation relating to these plans in 2011 is $ 42.6 million. We have estimated these obligations based on assumptions described under the heading "Critical Accounting Estimates—Employee Benefits" in "Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition," and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. Assumed health care cost trend rates, discount rates, expected return on plan assets and salary increases have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the pension and health care plans. If our assumptions do not materialize as expected, cash expenditures and costs that we incur could be materially higher. Moreover, regulatory changes could increase our obligations to provide these or additional benefits. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries participate in multiemployer pension and healthcare plan trusts established for union employees. Contributions to these funds could increase as a result of future collective bargaining with the UMWA, a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency of other coal companies who currently contribute to these funds, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets, or other funding deficiencies. We have no current intention to withdraw from any multiemployer pension plan, but if we were to do so, under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), we would be liable for a proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested benefit liabilities upon our withdrawal. Through July 1, 2011, our estimated withdrawal liability for the multiemployer pension plans amounts to $426.0 million. We self-insure workers' compensation and certain medical and disability benefits, and greater than expected claims could reduce our profitability. We are self-insured for workers' compensation benefits for work-related injuries. Workers' compensation liabilities, including those related to claims incurred but not reported, are recorded principally using annual valuations based on discounted future expected payments using historical data of the division or combined insurance industry data when historical data is limited. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are responsible for medical and disability benefits for black lung disease under the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969 and the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 30 1977, as amended, and is self-insured against black lung related claims. We perform periodic evaluations of our black lung liability, using assumptions regarding rates of successful claims, discount factors, benefit increases and mortality rates, among others. See additional information under the heading "Critical Accounting Estimates—Employee Benefits" in "Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition." If the number or severity of claims for which we are self insured increases, or we are required to accrue or pay additional amounts because the claims prove to be more severe than our original assessment, our operating results could be reduced. We may be subject to litigation, the disposition of which could negatively affect our profitability and cash flow in a particular period. Our profitability or cash flow in a particular period could be affected by an adverse ruling in any litigation currently pending in the courts or by litigation that may be filed against us in the future. For information regarding our current significant legal proceedings, see "Item 3. Legal Proceedings", "Note 11-Income Taxes" and "Note 16- Commitments and Contingencies." Access to capital, financing availability and our debt instruments may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions. Our business requires continued capital investment for, among other purposes, managing acquired assets, acquiring new equipment, maintaining the condition of our existing equipment and maintaining compliance with environmental and safety laws and regulations. To the extent that cash generated internally and cash available under our credit facilities are not sufficient to fund capital requirements, we will require additional debt and/or equity financing. However, this type of financing may not be available, or if available, may not be on satisfactory terms. Future debt financings, if available, may result in increased interest expense, increased financial leverage and decreased income available to fund further acquisitions and expansion. In addition, future debt financings may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and render us more vulnerable to economic downturns. If we fail to generate sufficient earnings or to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future or fail to manage our capital investments effectively, we could be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. In addition, the credit agreement governing our senior credit facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants for credit facilities of this type, including, but not limited to, limitations on the incurrence of indebtedness, asset dispositions, acquisitions, investments, dividends and other restricted payments, liens and transactions with affiliates. The credit agreement requires us to meet certain financial tests, including a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. Our ability to satisfy the financial ratios, tests or covenants related to our existing or future indebtedness can be affected by events beyond our control, and there is a risk that we will not meet those tests. A breach of any such covenants could result in a default under our credit facilities or under any other debt instrument that we may enter into in the future. If an event of default were not remedied after the delivery of notice of default and lapse of any relevant grace period, the holders of our debt could declare it immediately due and payable. Changes in our credit ratings could adversely affect our costs and expenses. Any downgrade in our credit ratings could adversely affect our ability to borrow and result in more restrictive borrowing terms, including increased borrowing costs and more restrictive covenants. This, in turn, could affect our internal cost of capital estimates and therefore impact operational and investment decisions. 31 Our executive officers and other key personnel are important to our success and the loss of some of these individuals as a result of the relocation of our corporate offices could harm our business. Our executive officers and other key personnel have significant experience in the businesses in which we operate and the loss of certain of these individuals could harm our business. We have previously announced our intention to relocate our corporate offices from Tampa, Florida to Birmingham, Alabama. While we do not anticipate that this relocation will affect management and key employees of our operating subsidiaries, including our subsidiary Presidents, certain members of our management team and corporate staff, including our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer and general counsel have informed us they will not be relocating. Although we have been successful in attracting qualified individuals for key management and corporate positions in the past, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining a sufficient number of qualified personnel in the future and the loss of the services of management personnel as a result of the relocation or otherwise could harm our ability to successfully integrate and manage our business functions, prevent us from executing our business strategy and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We may be unsuccessful in identifying or integrating suitable acquisitions, which could impair our growth. Our ability to grow depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions. This strategy depends on the availability of acquisition candidates with businesses that can be successfully integrated into our existing business and that will provide us with complementary capabilities, products or services. There are many challenges to integrating acquired companies and businesses, including eliminating redundant operations, facilities and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining key employees, managing different corporate cultures and achieving cost reductions and cross-selling opportunities. It is possible that we will be unable to successfully complete potential acquisitions which could impair our growth. The price of our common stock may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control. Our share price is likely to fluctuate in the future because of the volatility of the stock market in general and a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: •general global economic conditions that impact infrastructure activity, including interest rate and currency movements; •quarterly variations in actual or anticipated results of our operations; •speculation in the press or investment community; •changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; •actions or announcements by our competitors; •actions by our principal stockholders; •trading volumes of our common stock; •regulatory actions; •litigation; •U.S. and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; •loss or gain of a major customer; •additions or departures of key personnel; and •future issuances of our common stock. 32 Market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of shares of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our stock. Price volatility may be greater if the public float and trading volume of shares of our common stock is low. In addition, if our operating results and net income fail to meet the expectations of stock analysts and investors, we may experience an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our stock. Our ability to pay regular dividends to our stockholders is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and may be limited by our holding company structure, the covenants in our debt instruments and applicable provisions of Delaware law. Our Board of Directors may, in its discretion, decrease the level of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. In addition, as a holding company, we will be dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to generate earnings and cash flows and distribute them to us so that we may pay our obligations and expenses and pay dividends to our stockholders. Our ability to pay future dividends and the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us will be subject to our and their respective operating results, cash requirements and financial condition, the applicable laws of the State of Delaware (which may limit the amount of funds available for distribution), compliance with covenants and financial ratios related to existing or future indebtedness and other agreements with third parties. If, as a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, we are unable to generate sufficient distributions from our business, we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce or eliminate, the payment of dividends on our shares. Our stockholder rights agreement could discourage or prevent potential acquisition proposals and could deter a change of control. On February 27, 2009, our Board of Directors authorized and declared a dividend of one preferred stock purchase right (a "Right") for each share of common stock to stockholders of record as of the close of business on April 23, 2009. Our shareholders approved this action and we entered into a rights agreement on April 24, 2009. Initially the Right is not exercisable and will trade with our common stock. The Right may be exercisable under certain circumstances, including a person or group acquiring, or the commencement of a tender or exchange offer that would result in a person or group acquiring, beneficial ownership of more than 20% of the outstanding shares of common stock. Upon exercise of the Right, each Right holder, other than the person or group triggering the plan, will have the right to purchase from us 1/1000th of a share of junior preferred stock (subject to adjustment) or, at our option, shares of common stock having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the Right. Each fractional share of the junior preferred stock has terms designed to make it substantially the economic equivalent of one share of common stock. This rights agreement expires on April 23, 2012. Our rights agreement is designed to, among other things, deter the use of coercive or abusive takeover tactics by one or more parties interested in acquiring the Company or a significant position in the Company's common stock without offering fair value to all stockholders, as well as to generally assist the Board in representing the interests of all stockholders in connection with any takeover proposals. The rights agreement would accomplish these objectives by encouraging a potential acquiror to negotiate with the Board to have the Rights redeemed or the rights agreement amended prior to such party exceeding the ownership thresholds set forth in the rights agreement. If the Rights are not redeemed (or the rights agreement is not amended to permit the particular acquisition) and such party exceeds the ownership thresholds, the Rights become exercisable at a discounted price resulting in both a dilution of the party's holding in the Company and making an acquisition thereof significantly more expensive by significantly increasing the number of shares that would have to be acquired to effect a takeover. Our rights agreement may discourage third parties from attempting to purchase our Company or a significant position in our common stock, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock. 33 We may be required to satisfy certain indemnification obligations to Mueller Water or may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from Mueller Water. In connection with the spin-off of Mueller Water Products, Inc. ("Mueller Water") on December 14, 2006, we entered into certain agreements with Mueller Water, including an income tax allocation agreement and a joint litigation agreement. Under the terms of those agreements, we and Mueller Water agreed to indemnify each other with respect to the indebtedness, liabilities and obligations that will be retained by our respective companies, including certain tax and litigation liabilities. These indemnification obligations could be significant. For example, to the extent that we or Mueller Water take any action that would be inconsistent with the treatment of the spin-off of Mueller Water as a tax-free transaction under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, then any tax resulting from such actions is attributable to the acting company. The ability to satisfy these indemnities if called upon to do so will depend upon the future financial strength of each of our companies. We cannot determine whether we will have to indemnify Mueller Water for any substantial obligations after the distribution. If Mueller Water has to indemnify us for any substantial obligations, Mueller Water may not have the ability to satisfy those obligations. If Mueller Water is unable to satisfy its obligations under its indemnity to us, we may have to satisfy those obligations. We may be required to satisfy certain indemnification obligations to Walter Investment Management Corp. In addition, we have contingent obligations in respect of Walter Investment Management Corp. which, in certain circumstances, could become significant. In connection with the spin-off of our financing business and its merger with Hanover Capital Mortgage Holdings, Inc. on April 17, 2009, we entered into certain agreements with the surviving corporation, Walter Investment Management Corp. ("Walter Investment Management"), including a tax sharing agreement, a joint litigation agreement, a support letter of credit agreement in the amount of $15.7 million and a revolving credit facility and security agreement in which we have committed to make available up to $10.0 million in the event a major hurricane has occurred with projected losses greater than $2.5 million. Under the terms of the tax sharing agreement, to the extent that we or Walter Investment Management takes any action that would be inconsistent with the treatment of the spin-off of the financing business from us as a tax-free transaction under Section 355 of the Code, then any tax resulting from such actions will be attributable to the acting company and will result in indemnification obligations that could be significant. Under the terms of the joint litigation agreement, Walter Investment Management will indemnify us for certain liabilities arising from businesses and operations of the financing business at the time of the spin-off. Under the terms of the support letter of credit agreement, Walter Investment Management agrees to reimburse us for all costs incurred in posting the support letter of credit for Walter Investment Management's bank credit agreement as well as any draws under bonds posted in support of Walter Investment Management and its subsidiaries. Under the terms of the revolving credit and security agreement, Walter Investment Management will pay all fees and repay all loans made under the facility. All obligations of the support letter of credit and the revolving credit and security agreement will be due and payable upon the termination of this agreement on April 20, 2011. The ability to satisfy these indemnities if called upon to do so will depend upon the future financial strength of each of our companies. If Walter Investment Management is unable to satisfy its obligations under its indemnity to us, we may have to satisfy those obligations. In the case of the support letter of credit agreement and the revolving credit facility and security agreement, if Walter Investment Management cannot pay its obligations and the collateral backing those agreements is insufficient to satisfy the obligations, we could lose money in the satisfaction of those obligations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments: None 34 