Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Associated with our Current Continuing Operations Unfavorable global economic, financial and business conditions may adversely affect our businesses. The global financial markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption over the last several years. These markets have experienced, among other things, volatility in security prices, commodities and currencies; diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades and declining valuations of certain investments. Weaknesses in global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our coal, coke and natural gas products and on our sales, pricing and profitability. We are not able to predict whether the global economic conditions will continue or worsen and the impact these events may have on our operations and the industry in general. Our businesses may suffer as a result of a substantial or extended decline in pricing, demand and other factors beyond our control, which could negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. Our businesses are cyclical and have experienced significant difficulties in the past. Our financial performance depends, in large part, on varying conditions in the international and domestic markets we serve, which fluctuate in response to various factors beyond our control. The prices at which we sell our coal, coke and natural gas are largely dependent on prevailing market prices for those products. We have experienced significant price fluctuations in our coal, coke and natural gas businesses, and we expect that such fluctuations will continue. Demand for and, therefore, the price of, coal, coke and natural gas are driven by a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: •the domestic and foreign supply and demand for coal; •the quantity and quality of coal available from competitors; •adverse weather, climatic or other natural conditions, including natural disasters; •domestic and foreign economic conditions, including economic slowdowns; •global or regional political events; •legislative, regulatory and judicial developments, environmental regulatory changes or changes in energy policy and energy conservation measures that would adversely affect the coal industry, such as legislation limiting carbon emissions or providing for increased funding and incentives for alternative energy sources; •the proximity to, capacity of and cost of transportation and port facilities; and •market price fluctuations for sulfur dioxide emission allowances. In addition, reductions in the demand for metallurgical coal caused by reduced steel production by our customers, increases in the use of substitutes for steel (such as aluminum, composites or plastics) and the use of steel-making technologies that use less or no metallurgical coal can significantly affect our financial results and impede growth. Demand for thermal coal is primarily driven by the price of thermal coal and natural gas and the consumption patterns of the domestic electric power generation industry, which, in turn, is influenced by demand for electricity and technological developments. We estimate that a 10% decrease in the price of metallurgical coal for the full year 2011 would have resulted in a reduction in pre-tax income of $205.4 million. The failure of our customers to honor or renew contracts could adversely affect our business. A significant portion of the sales of our coal, coke and natural gas are to long-term customers. The success of our businesses depends on our ability to retain our current customers, renew our existing customer contracts and solicit new customers. Our ability to do so generally depends on a 27 Table of Contents variety of factors, including the quality and price of our products, our ability to market these products effectively, our ability to deliver on a timely basis and the level of competition we face. If current customers do not honor current contract commitments, terminate agreements or exercise force majeure provisions allowing for the temporary suspension of performance, our revenues will be adversely affected. If we are unsuccessful in renewing contracts with our long-term customers and they discontinue purchasing coal, coke or natural gas from us, renew contracts on terms less favorable than in the past, or if we are unable to sell our coal, coke or natural gas to new customers on terms as favorable to us, our revenues could suffer significantly. Our ability to collect payments from our customers could be impaired if their creditworthiness deteriorates. Our ability to receive payment for coal sold and delivered depends on the continued creditworthiness of our customers. If we determine that a customer is not creditworthy, we may not be required to deliver coal under the customer's coal sales contract. If this occurs, we may decide to sell the customer's coal on the spot market, which may be at prices lower than the contracted price, or we may be unable to sell the coal at all. Furthermore, the bankruptcy of any of our customers could materially and adversely affect our financial position. In addition, competition with other coal suppliers could cause us to extend credit to customers and on terms that could increase the risk of payment default. Coal mining is subject to inherent risks and is dependent upon many factors and conditions beyond our control, which may cause our profitability and our financial position to decline. Coal mining is subject to inherent risks and is dependent upon a number of conditions beyond our control that can affect our costs and production schedules at particular mines. These risks and conditions include, but are not limited to: •variations in geological conditions, such as the thickness of the coal seam and amount of rock embedded in the coal deposit and variations in rock and other natural materials overlying the coal deposit; •mining, process and equipment or mechanical failures and unexpected maintenance problems; •adverse weather and natural disasters, such as heavy rains or snow, flooding and other natural events affecting the operations, transportation or customers; •environmental hazards, such as subsidence and excess water ingress; •delays and difficulties in acquiring, maintaining or renewing necessary permits or mining rights; •unexpected mine accidents, including rock-falls and explosions caused by the ignition of coal dust, natural gas or other explosive sources at our mine sites or fires caused by the spontaneous combustion of coal or similar mining accidents; and •competition and/or conflicts with other natural resource extraction activities and production within our operating areas, such as coalbed methane extraction or oil and gas development. These risks and conditions could result in damage to or the destruction of mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage, delays in mining, monetary losses and legal liability. For example, an explosion and fire occurred in our underground No. 5 mine in Alabama in September 2001. This accident resulted in the deaths of thirteen employees and caused extensive damage to the mine. Our insurance coverage may not be available or sufficient to fully cover claims which may arise from these risks and conditions. We have also experienced adverse geological conditions in our mines, such as variations in coal seam thickness, variations in the competency and make-up of the roof strata, fault-related 28 Table of Contents discontinuities in the coal seam and the potential for ingress of excessive amounts of methane gas or water. We do not have meaningful excess capacity for current production needs, and we are not able to quickly increase production at one mine to offset an interruption in production at another mine. Such adverse conditions may increase our cost of sales and reduce our profitability, and may cause us to decide to close a mine. Any of these risks or conditions could have a negative impact on our profitability, the cash available from our operations and our financial position. Defects in title of any real property or leasehold interests in our properties could limit our ability to mine or develop these properties or result in significant unanticipated costs. Our right to mine some of our reserves and extract natural gas may be materially adversely affected by defects in title or boundaries. We may not verify title to our leased properties or associated coal reserves until we have committed to developing those properties or coal reserves. We may not commit to develop property or coal reserves until we have obtained necessary permits and completed exploration. Any challenge to our title could delay the development of the property and could ultimately result in the loss of some or all of our interest in the property and could increase our costs. In addition, if we mine or conduct our natural gas operations on property that we do not own or lease, we could incur liability for such mining and gas operations. Some leases have minimum production requirements or require us to commence mining or gas operations in a specified term to retain the lease. Failure to meet those requirements could result in losses of prepaid royalties and, in some rare cases, could result in a loss of the lease itself. Currently we have significant mining operations located predominately in central Alabama and northeast British Columbia, making us vulnerable to risks associated with having our production concentrated in two geographic areas. Our mining operations are geographically concentrated in central Alabama and Northeast British Columbia. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of production caused by significant governmental regulation, transportation capacity constraints, curtailment of production, extreme weather conditions, natural disasters or interruption of transportation or other events which impact this area. A significant reduction of, or loss of, purchases by our largest customers could adversely affect our profitability. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we derived approximately 29% of our total sales revenues from sales to our 5 largest customers. We expect to renew, extend or enter into new supply agreements with these and other customers. However, we may be unsuccessful in obtaining such agreements with these customers and these customers may discontinue purchasing coal from us. If any of our major customers were to significantly reduce the quantities of coal they purchase from us and we are unable to replace these customers with new customers, or if we are unable to sell coal to those customers or on terms favorable to us, our profitability could suffer significantly. If transportation for our coal becomes unavailable or uneconomic for our customers, our ability to sell coal could suffer. Transportation costs can represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal to be delivered to the customer and, as a result, overall price increases in our transportation costs could make our coal less competitive with the same or alternative products from competitors with lower transportation costs. We typically depend upon overland conveyor, trucks, rail or barge to deliver our products. Disruption of any of these transportation services because of weather-related problems, which are variable and unpredictable; strikes, lock-outs; transportation delays or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply our products to our customers, thereby resulting in lost sales and reduced profitability. 29 Table of Contents All of our U.S. metallurgical mines are served by only one rail carrier, which increases our vulnerability to these risks, although our access to barge transportation partially mitigates that risk. In addition, the majority of the metallurgical coal produced by our Alabama underground mining operations is sold to coal customers who typically arrange and pay for transportation through the state-run docks at the Port of Mobile, Alabama to the point of use. As a result, disruption at the docks, port congestion and delayed coal shipments may result in demurrage fees to us. If this disruption were to persist over an extended period of time, demurrage costs could significantly impact profits. Substantially all of the Company's coal produced by its Canadian operations is exported to port facilities by one railway for which there are limited alternatives. Additionally, all of the Company's Canadian export sales are loaded through one port facility, for which there are limited cost-effective alternatives. The cost of securing additional facilities and services of this nature could significantly increase transportation and other costs. An interruption of rail or port services could significantly limit the Company's ability to operate and to the extent that alternate sources of transportation of port and rail services are available, it could increase transportation and port costs significantly. Further, the inconsistent nature of the shipping industry could affect the Company's revenues as a result of delays of ocean vessels and could significantly affect the Company's costs and relative competitiveness against the supply of coal from other markets. Significant competition and foreign currency fluctuations could harm our sales, profitability and cash flows. The consolidation of the U.S. and global coal industry over the last several years has contributed to increased competition among coal producers. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources than we do. This competition may affect domestic and foreign coal prices and impact our ability to retain or attract coal customers. In addition, our metallurgical coal business faces competition from foreign producers that sell their coal in the export market. The general economic conditions in foreign markets and changes in currency exchange rates are factors outside of our control that may affect international coal prices. If our competitors' currencies decline against our local currency or against our customers' currencies, those competitors may be able to offer lower prices to our customers. Furthermore, if the currencies of our overseas customers were to significantly decline in value in comparison to our local currency, those customers may seek decreased prices for the coal we sell to them. In addition, these factors may negatively impact our collection of trade receivables from our customers. These factors could reduce our profitability or result in lower coal sales. Expenses from our Canadian operations are typically incurred and paid in Canadian dollars and our United Kingdom operations revenues and expenses are incurred and paid in British pounds. We have elected not to adopt a formal foreign currency hedging strategy and as a result any significant fluctuation in foreign exchange rates could adversely affect our financial position and operating results. Our businesses are subject to risk of cost increases and fluctuations and delay in the delivery of raw materials, mining equipment and purchased components. Our businesses require significant amounts of raw materials, mining equipment and labor and, therefore, shortages or increased costs of raw materials, mining equipment and labor could adversely affect our business or results of operations. Our coal mining operations rely on the availability of steel, petroleum products and other raw materials for use in various mining equipment. The availability and market prices of these materials are influenced by various factors that are beyond our control. Over the last year petroleum prices have fluctuated significantly and pricing for steel scrap has fluctuated markedly. Any inability to secure a reliable supply of these materials or shortages in raw materials used in the operation and manufacturing of mining equipment or replacement parts could negatively impact our operating results. 30 Table of Contents Work stoppages, labor shortages and other labor relations matters may harm our business. The majority of our employees in our underground mining and coking operations in Alabama are unionized and we have a risk of work stoppages as the result of strike or lockout. The majority of employees of our underground mining operations in Alabama are members of United Mine Workers of America ("UMWA"). Normally, our negotiations with the UMWA follow the national contract negotiated with the UMWA by the Bituminous Coal Operators Association. The collective bargaining agreement expires December 31, 2016. At our coking operation, our contract with the United Steelworkers of America expires December 6, 2015. We experienced a strike at our coke facilities at the end of 2001 that lasted eight months. Future work stoppages, labor union issues or labor disruptions at our key customers or service providers could impede our ability to produce and deliver our products, to receive critical equipment and supplies or to collect payment. This may increase our costs or impede our ability to operate one or more of our operations. We require a skilled workforce to run our business. If we cannot hire qualified people to meet replacement or expansion needs, we may not be able to achieve planned results. The demand for coal in recent years has caused a significant constriction of the labor supply resulting in higher labor costs. Efficient coal mining using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled laborers with mining experience and proficiency as well as qualified managers and supervisors. As coal producers compete for skilled miners, employee turnover rates have increased which negatively affects operating costs. If the shortage of skilled workers continues and we are unable to train and retain the necessary number of miners, it could adversely affect our productivity, costs and ability to expand production. We have reclamation and mine closure obligations. If the assumptions underlying our accruals are inaccurate, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. The Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act and counterpart state laws and regulations in the United States and the Mines Act (British Columbia) and the Reclamation Code for Mines in British Columbia in Canada have established operational, reclamation and closure standards for all aspects of surface mining as well as most aspects of deep mining. We accrue for the costs of final mine closure. Estimates of our total reclamation and mine-closing liabilities are based upon permit requirements and our experience. The amounts recorded are dependent upon a number of variables, including the estimated future retirement costs, estimated proven reserves, assumptions involving profit margins, inflation rates, and the assumed credit-adjusted risk-free interest rates. Furthermore, these obligations are unfunded. If these accruals are insufficient or our liability in a particular year is greater than currently anticipated, our future operating results could be adversely affected. At December 31, 2011, we have accrued $75.1 million for our asset retirement obligations. Factors impacting our forecasts of future performance, reserve estimates and a decline in pricing could affect our revenues. Forecasts of our future performance are based on estimates of our recoverable coal reserves. Reserve estimates are based on a number of sources of information, including engineering, geological, mining and property control maps, our operational experience of historical production from similar areas with similar conditions and assumptions governing future pricing and operational costs. Reserve estimates will change periodically to reflect mining activities, the acquisition or divestiture of reserve holdings and modifications of mining plans. Certain factors beyond our control could affect the accuracy of these estimates, including unexpected mining conditions, future coal prices, operating and development costs and federal, state, provincial and local regulations affecting mining operations. 31 Table of Contents Inaccuracies in our estimates of our coal reserves could result in decreased profitability from lower than expected revenues or higher than expected costs. Our future performance depends on, among other things, the accuracy of our estimates of our proven and probable coal reserves. We base our estimates of reserves on engineering, economic and geological data assembled, analyzed and reviewed by internal and third-party engineers and consultants. We update our estimates of the quantity and quality of proven and probable coal reserves at least annually to reflect the production of coal from the reserves, updated geological models and mining recovery data, the tonnage contained in new lease areas acquired and estimated costs of production and sales prices. There are numerous factors and assumptions inherent in estimating the quantities and qualities of, and costs to mine, coal reserves, including many factors beyond our control, including the following: •quality of the coal; •geological and mining conditions, which may not be fully identified by available exploration data and/or may differ from our experiences in areas where we currently mine; •the percentage of coal ultimately recoverable; •the assumed effects of regulation, including the issuance of required permits, taxes, including severage and excise taxes and royalties, and other payments to governmental agencies; •assumptions concerning the timing of the development of the reserves; and •assumptions concerning the equipment and productivity, future coal prices, operating costs, including for critical supplies such as fuel, tires and explosives, capital expenditures and development and reclamation costs. As a result, estimates of the quantities and qualities of economically recoverable coal attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery, estimated cost of production, and estimates of future net cash flows expected from these properties as prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times, may vary materially due to changes in the above factors and assumptions. Actual production recovered from identified reserve areas and properties, and revenues and expenditures associated with our mining operations, may vary materially from estimates. Any inaccuracy in our estimates related to our reserves could result in decreased profitability from lower than expected revenues and/or higher than expected costs. Canadian licenses, permits and other authorizations may be subject to challenges based on Aboriginal or Treaty rights Canadian judicial decisions have recognized the continued existence of Aboriginal and Treaty rights in Canada, including title to lands continuously used or occupied by Aboriginal groups. Our Northeast British Columbia operations are located within Treaty 8 territory, to which nine First Nations in British Columbia are signatories. Current operations are in or near the traditional territories of the West Moberly, Saulteau and Halfway River First Nations, and the McLeod Lake Indian Band. The Province of British Columbia has signed an Economic Benefits Agreement and related land and resource use agreements with several of the First Nations, including the West Moberly First Nation, over the last few years. The Treaty 8, as well as the Economic Benefits Agreement and related agreements, establish First Nations rights and define roles for their involvement in land and resource use. As a means of protecting Treaty and Aboriginal rights, as well as undetermined aboriginal rights, Canadian courts continue to confirm a duty to consult with Aboriginal groups when the Crown has knowledge of existing rights or the potential existence of an Aboriginal right, such as title or hunting rights, and contemplates conduct that might adversely impact First Nations. As issues relating to Aboriginal and Treaty rights and consultation continue to be heard, developed and resolved in Canadian courts, we will 32 Table of Contents continue to cooperate, communicate and exchange information and views with Aboriginal groups and government, and participate with the Crown in its consultation processes with Aboriginal groups in order to foster good relationships and minimize risks to its mineral rights and operational plans. Due to their complexity, it is not expected that the issues regarding Aboriginal and Treaty rights or consultation will be finally resolved in the short term and, accordingly, the impact of these issues on mineral resources and on our mining operations is unknown at this time. We believe in building mutually beneficial and lasting relationships with local First Nations whose Treaty rights or potential Aboriginal rights overlap with our areas of operations. We are in the process of formalizing our relationships with local First Nations through agreements that generally seek to increase First Nations' participation in our planning and operational activities. Should a dispute arise between the First Nations and the Crown, it could significantly restrict the Company's ability to operate and transport coal within the region. Also, such action could have a detrimental impact on our financial condition and results of operations as well as our customers. Failure to meet our project development and expansion targets could have a material adverse effect on our business There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage effectively the expansion of our operations or that our current personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our operations. Any failure of management to effectively manage our growth and development could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operational targets are subject to the completion of planned operational goals on time and within budget, and are dependent on the effective support of our personnel, systems, procedures and controls. Any failure of these may result in delays in the achievement of operational targets with a consequent material adverse impact on our business, operations and financial performance. Our operations in foreign jurisdictions are subject to risks and uncertainties which may have a negative impact on our profitability We operate in a number of foreign countries where there are added risks and uncertainties due to the different economic, cultural and political environments. We face risks in securing additional property licenses, as the process for obtaining these is likely to be different from that in the jurisdictions in which we have operated historically, which could result in failed attempts to obtain licenses which would have used up management time and financial resources. We also face risks from trade barriers, exchange controls and material changes in taxation which could negatively impact our ability to sell into foreign markets, as well as our profitability. Extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations impose significant costs on our operations and future regulations could increase those costs, limit our ability to produce or adversely affect the demand for our products. Our businesses are subject to numerous federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations with respect to matters such as: •permitting and licensing requirements; •employee health and safety, including: •occupational safety and health; •mine health and safety; •workers' compensation; •black lung; 33 Table of Contents •reclamation and restoration of property; •environmental laws and regulations, including: •greenhouse gases and climate change; •air quality standards; •water quality standards; •management of materials generated by mining and coking operations; •the storage, treatment and disposal of wastes; •remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater; and •protection of human health, plant-life and wildlife, including endangered species, and emergency planning and community right to know. Compliance with these regulations may be costly and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production at our operations. These laws are constantly evolving and becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with existing laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable due in part to the fact that certain implementing regulations for these laws have not yet been promulgated and in certain instances are undergoing revision. These laws and regulations, particularly new legislative or administrative proposals (or judicial interpretations of existing laws and regulations) could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs and could have a material adverse effect on our operations and/or our customers' ability to use our products. In addition, the industry in the United States is affected by significant legislation mandating certain benefits for current and retired coal miners. We strive to conduct our mining, natural gas and coke operations in compliance with all applicable federal, provincial, state and local laws and regulations. However, due in part to the extensive and comprehensive regulatory requirements, along with changing interpretations of these requirements, violations occur from time to time in our industry and at our operations. In recent years, expenditures at our U.S. operations for regulatory or environmental obligations have been mainly for safety or process changes. Although it is not possible at this time to predict the final outcome of these rule-making and standard-setting efforts, it is likely that the magnitude of these changes will require an unprecedented compliance effort on our part, could divert management's attention, and may require significant expenditures. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, operating results will be reduced. We believe that our major North American competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus do not believe that our relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations, which is a major cost consideration for our Canadian operations in particular, may have an adverse effect on our competitive position with regard to foreign producers and operators who may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities, applicable state or provincial legislation and its production methods. Federal, state or provincial regulatory agencies have the authority to order certain of our mines to be temporarily or permanently closed under certain circumstances, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to meet our customers' demands. Federal, state or provincial regulatory agencies have the authority under certain circumstances following significant health and safety incidents, such as fatalities, to order a mine to be temporarily or 34 Table of Contents permanently closed. If this occurred, we may be required to incur capital expenditures to re-open the mine. In the event that these agencies order the closing of our mines, our coal sales contracts generally permit us to issue force majeure notices which suspend our obligations to deliver coal under these contracts. However, our customers may challenge our issuances of force majeure notices. If these challenges are successful, we may have to purchase coal from third-party sources, if it is available, to fulfill these obligations, incur capital expenditures to re-open the mines and/or negotiate settlements with the customers, which may include price reductions, the reduction of commitments or the extension of time for delivery or terminate customers' contracts. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Increased focus by regulatory authorities on the effects of surface coal mining on the environment and recent regulatory developments related to surface coal mining operations could make it more difficult or increase our costs to receive new permits or to comply with our existing permits to mine coal or otherwise adversely affect us. Regulatory agencies are increasingly focused on the effects of surface coal mining on the environment, particularly as it relates to water quality, which has resulted in more rigorous permitting requirements and enforcement efforts. Section 404 of the Clean Water Act requires mining companies to obtain U.S. Army Corps of Engineers permits to place material in streams for the purpose of creating slurry ponds, water impoundments, refuse areas, valley fills or other mining activities. As is the case with other coal mining companies operating in Appalachia, our construction and mining activities, including certain of our surface mining operations, frequently require Section 404 permits. The issuance of permits to construct valley fills and refuse impoundments under Section 404 of the Clean Water Act has been the subject of many court cases and increased regulatory oversight, resulting in additional permitting requirements that are expected to delay or even prevent the opening of new mines. For example, in April 2010, the EPA issued comprehensive guidance to provide clarification as to the water quality standards that should apply when reviewing Clean Water Act permit applications for Appalachian surface coal mining operations. This guidance establishes threshold conductivity levels to be used as a basis for evaluating compliance with narrative water quality standards. To obtain necessary permits, we and other mining companies are required to meet these requirements. We have begun to incorporate these new requirements into our current permit applications; however, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to meet these or any other new standards with respect to our permit applications. Additionally, in January 2011, the EPA rescinded a federal Clean Water Act permit held by another coal mining company for a surface mine in Appalachia citing associated environmental damage and degradation. While our operations are not directly impacted, this could be an indication that other surface mining water permits could be subject to more substantial review in the future. It is unknown what future changes will be implemented to the permitting review and issuance process or to other aspects of surface mining operations, but the increased regulatory focus, future laws and judicial decisions and any other future changes could materially and adversely affect all coal mining companies operating in Appalachia, including us. Regulatory agencies in Canada are also increasingly focused on the effects of surface coal mining on the environment, particularly as it relates to water quality and to wildlife habitat. The British Columbia Ministry of Environment is updating its existing selenium guidelines which could affect water quality issues and effluent discharge standards. Expansion of existing coal mines and development of new coal mines in northeast British Columbia have also been the focus of consideration with respect to the impacts on caribou habitat, particularly in areas where caribou has been identified as a threatened species under the federal Species at Risk Act. It is unknown what future changes will be implemented to 35 Table of Contents the permitting review and issuance process or to other aspects of surface mining operations in British Columbia, but the increased regulatory focus, future laws and judicial decisions, and any other future changes could materially and adversely affect all coal mining companies operating in British Columbia, including us. In particular, in each jurisdiction in which we operate, we will incur additional permitting and operating costs, could be unable to obtain new permits or maintain existing permits and could incur fines, penalties and other costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. If surface coal mining methods are limited or prohibited, it could significantly increase our operational costs and make it more difficult to economically recover a significant portion of our reserves. In the event that we cannot increase the price we charge for coal to cover the higher production costs without reducing customer demand for our coal, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, increased public focus on the environmental, health and aesthetic impacts of surface coal mining could harm our reputation and reduce demand for coal. Climate change concerns could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. The combustion of fossil fuels, such as the coal, coke and natural gas we produce, results in the creation of carbon dioxide that is currently emitted into the atmosphere by coal, coke and gas end-users. Further, some of our operations emit GHGs directly, such as methane incident to coal mining and carbon dioxide during our coke production. Carbon dioxide is considered a greenhouse gas and is a major source of concern with respect to global warming, also known as climate change. Climate change continues to attract public and scientific attention, and increasing government attention is being paid to reducing GHG emissions. There are many legal and regulatory approaches currently in effect or being considered to address GHGs, including possible future U.S. treaty commitments, new federal or state legislation that may impose a carbon emissions tax or establish a "cap and trade" program, and regulation by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Canadian legal and regulatory approaches include both federal and provincial regulations requiring the reporting of GHG emissions. At both the federal and provincial level, governments are considering the implementation of GHG regulatory structures such as a "cap and trade" program, and emissions trading. These programs could force reductions in total GHG emissions on an industry or on a facility basis. In British Columbia, the government charges a carbon emissions tax with scheduled increases. These existing laws and regulations or other current and future efforts to stabilize or reduce GHG emissions, could adversely impact the demand for, price of and the value of our products and reserves. Passage of additional state, provincial, federal or foreign laws or regulations regarding GHG emissions or other actions to limit GHG emissions could result in switching from coal to other fuel sources. The anticipation of such additional requirements could also lead to reduced demand for some of our products. Alternative fuels (including non-fossil fuels) could become more attractive than coal in order to reduce GHG emissions, which could result in a reduction in the demand for coal and, therefore, our revenues. As our operations also emit GHGs directly, current or future laws or regulations limiting GHG emissions could increase our own costs. Although the potential impacts on us of additional climate change regulation are difficult to reliably quantify, they could be material. Our operations may impact the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, and our properties may have environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to us. Our operations currently use hazardous materials and generate limited quantities of hazardous wastes from time to time. We could become subject to claims for toxic torts, natural resource damages and other damages as well as for the investigation and clean up of soil, surface water, groundwater, and other media. Such claims may arise, for example, out of conditions at sites that we currently own or 36 Table of Contents operate, as well as at sites that we previously owned or operated, or may acquire. Our liability for such claims may be joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other damages, or even for the entire share. We maintain extensive coal refuse areas and slurry impoundments at a number of our mining complexes. Such areas and impoundments are subject to extensive regulation. Slurry impoundments have been known to fail, releasing large volumes of coal slurry into the surrounding environment. Structural failure of an impoundment can result in extensive damage to the environment and natural resources, such as bodies of water that the coal slurry reaches, as well as liability for related personal injuries and property damages, and injuries to wildlife. Some of our impoundments overlie mined out areas, which can pose a heightened risk of failure and of damages arising out of failure. If one of our impoundments were to fail, we could be subject to substantial claims for the resulting environmental contamination and associated liability, as well as for fines and penalties. Drainage flowing from or caused by mining activities can be acidic with elevated levels of dissolved metals, a condition referred to as "acid mine drainage," which we refer to as AMD. The treating of AMD can be costly. Although we do not currently face material costs associated with AMD, it is possible that we could incur significant costs in the future. These and other similar unforeseen impacts that our operations may have on the environment, as well as exposures to hazardous substances or wastes associated with our operations, could result in costs and liabilities that could materially and adversely affect us. See also "Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters" in Part I of this Annual Report. Other Business Risks Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition, and our related debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow and ability to invest in and grow our businesses. We have approximately $2.2 billion of indebtedness outstanding under a new $2.7 billion credit agreement ("Credit Agreement"). Under the repayment schedule relating to the Credit Agreement we will be required to make principal payments totaling at least $19.8 million in 2012 and at least $82.5 million in 2013. In addition, we will be required to pay a percentage of excess cash flow, as defined in the Credit Agreement, to reduce the principal balance of the indebtedness. If we are unable to satisfy our indebtedness obligations, we will be unable to continue our operations, including our planned development and growth initiatives. Access to capital, financing availability and our debt instruments may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions. Our business requires continued capital investment for, among other purposes, managing acquired assets, acquiring new equipment, maintaining the condition of our existing equipment and maintaining compliance with environmental and safety laws and regulations. To the extent that cash generated internally and cash available under our credit facilities are not sufficient to fund capital requirements, we will require additional debt and/or equity financing. However, this type of financing may not be available, or if available, may not be on satisfactory terms. Future debt financings, if available, may result in increased interest expense, increased financial leverage and decreased income available to fund further acquisitions and expansion. In addition, future debt financings may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and render us more vulnerable to economic downturns. If we fail to generate sufficient earnings or to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future or fail to manage our capital investments effectively, we could be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. 37 Table of Contents In addition, our Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants for credit facilities of this type, including, but not limited to, limitations on the incurrence of indebtedness, asset dispositions, acquisitions, investments, dividends and other restricted payments, liens and transactions with affiliates. The Credit Agreement requires us to meet certain financial tests, including a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. Our ability to satisfy the financial ratios, tests or covenants related to our existing or future indebtedness can be affected by events beyond our control, and there is a risk that we will not meet those tests. A breach of any such covenants could result in a default under our credit facilities or under any other debt instrument that we may enter into in the future. If an event of default were not remedied after the delivery of notice of default and lapse of any relevant grace period, the holders of our debt could declare it immediately due and payable. Failure to obtain or renew surety bonds on acceptable terms could affect our ability to secure reclamation and coal lease obligations and, therefore, our ability to mine or lease coal. Federal, state and provincial laws require us to obtain surety bonds or post other financial security to secure performance or payment of certain long-term obligations, such as mine closure or reclamation costs, federal and state workers' compensation costs, coal leases and other obligations. We may have difficulty procuring or maintaining our surety bonds. Our bond issuers may demand higher fees, additional collateral, including letters of credit or other terms less favorable to us upon those renewals. Because we are required by state and federal law to have these bonds in place before mining can commence or continue, or failure to maintain surety bonds, letters of credit or other guarantees or security arrangements would materially and adversely affect our ability to mine or lease coal. That failure could result from a variety of factors, including lack of availability, higher expense or unfavorable market terms, the exercise by third party surety bond issuers of their right to refuse to renew the surety and restrictions on availability on collateral for current and future third party surety bond issuers under the terms of our financing arrangements. Our expenditures for postretirement benefit and pension obligations are significant and could be materially higher than we have predicted if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect. We provide a range of benefits to our employees and retirees, including pensions and postretirement healthcare. We record annual amounts relating to these plans based on calculations specified by generally accepted accounting principles, which include various actuarial assumptions. As of December 31, 2011, we estimate that our pension plans' aggregate accumulated benefit obligation had a present value of approximately $246.0 million, and our fair value of plan assets was approximately $202.5 million. As of December 31, 2011, we estimate that our postretirement health care and life insurance plans' aggregate accumulated benefit obligation would have had a present value of approximately $577.9 million, and such benefits are not required to be funded. In respect of the funding obligations for our pension plans, we must make minimum cash contributions on a quarterly basis. The weakening of the economic environment and uncertainty in the equity markets have caused investment income and the values of investment assets held in our pension trust to decline in the past and lose value. As a result, we may be required to increase the amount of cash contributions we make into the pension trust in the future in order to meet the funding level requirements of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (Pension Act). Our estimated minimum funding obligation relating to these plans in 2012 is $55.3 million. We have estimated these obligations based on assumptions described under the heading "Critical Accounting Estimates—Employee Benefits" in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition," and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. Assumed health care cost trend rates, discount rates, expected return on plan assets and salary increases have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the pension and health care plans. If our assumptions do not materialize as expected, cash expenditures and costs that we incur could be materially higher. Moreover, regulatory changes could increase our obligations to provide these or additional benefits. 38 Table of Contents The 2010 healthcare legislation impacts our costs to provide healthcare benefits to our eligible active and certain retired employees and to provide workers' compensation benefits related to occupational disease resulting from black lung disease. The 2010 healthcare legislation has both short-term and long-term implications on healthcare benefit plan standards. Implementation of the 2010 healthcare legislation will occur in phases, with plan standard changes taking effect beginning in 2010, but to a greater extent with the 2011 benefit plan year and extending through 2018. Plan standard changes that affect us in the short term include raising the maximum age for covered dependents to continue to receive benefits, the elimination of lifetime dollar limits per covered individual and restrictions on annual dollar limits per covered individual, among other standard requirements. Plan standard changes that could affect us in the long-term include a tax on "high cost" plans (excise tax) and the elimination of annual dollar limits per covered individual, among other standard requirements. Beginning in 2018, the 2010 healthcare legislation will impose a 40% excise tax on employers to the extent that the value of their healthcare plan coverage exceeds certain dollar thresholds. We anticipate that certain government agencies will provide additional regulations or interpretations concerning the application of this excise tax. Until these regulations or interpretations are published, it is impractical to reasonably estimate the ultimate impact of the excise tax on our future healthcare costs or postretirement benefit obligation. We have incorporated changes to our actuarial assumptions to determine our postretirement benefit obligations utilizing preliminary estimates and basic assumptions around the pending interpretations of these regulations. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries participate in multiemployer pension and healthcare plan trusts established for union employees. Contributions to these funds could increase as a result of future collective bargaining with the UMWA, a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency of other coal companies who currently contribute to these funds, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets, or other funding deficiencies. We have no current intention to withdraw from any multiemployer pension plan, but if we were to do so, under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), we would be liable for a proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested benefit liabilities upon our withdrawal. Through June 30, 2012, our estimated withdrawal liability for the multiemployer pension plans amounts to $484.4 million. Changes in our credit ratings could adversely affect our costs and expenses. Any downgrade in our credit ratings could adversely affect our ability to borrow and result in more restrictive borrowing terms, including increased borrowing costs and more restrictive covenants. This, in turn, could affect our internal cost of capital estimates and therefore impact operational and investment decisions. We self-insure workers' compensation and certain medical and disability benefits, and greater than expected claims could reduce our profitability. We are self-insured for workers' compensation benefits for work-related injuries. Workers' compensation liabilities, including those related to claims incurred but not reported, are recorded principally using annual valuations based on discounted future expected payments using historical data of the division or combined insurance industry data when historical data is limited. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are responsible for medical and disability benefits for black lung disease under the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969 and the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, as amended, and is self-insured against black lung related claims. We perform periodic evaluations of our black lung liability, using assumptions regarding rates of successful claims, discount factors, benefit increases and mortality rates, among others. See additional information under the 39 Table of Contents heading "Critical Accounting Estimates—Employee Benefits" in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition." If the number or severity of claims for which we are self insured increases, or we are required to accrue or pay additional amounts because the claims prove to be more severe than our original assessment, our operating results could be reduced. We may be subject to litigation, the disposition of which could negatively affect our profitability and cash flow in a particular period. Our profitability or cash flow in a particular period could be affected by an adverse ruling in any litigation currently pending in the courts or by litigation that may be filed against us in the future. For information regarding our current significant legal proceedings, see "Item 3. Legal Proceedings", "Note 9-Income Taxes" and "Note 14- Commitments and Contingencies." Our executive officers and other key personnel are important to our success and the loss of some of these individuals could harm our business. Our executive officers and other key personnel have significant experience in the businesses in which we operate and the loss of certain of these individuals could harm our business. Although we have been successful in attracting qualified individuals for key management and corporate positions in the past, as our business develops and expands, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining a sufficient number of qualified personnel in the future. The loss of the services of management personnel could harm our ability to successfully manage our business functions, prevent us from executing our business strategy and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We may be unsuccessful in identifying or integrating suitable acquisitions, which could impair our growth. Our ability to grow depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions. This strategy depends on the availability of acquisition candidates with businesses that can be successfully integrated into our existing business and that will provide us with complementary capabilities, products or services. There are many challenges to integrating acquired companies and businesses, including eliminating redundant operations, facilities and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining key employees, managing different corporate cultures and achieving cost reductions and cross-selling opportunities. It is possible that we will be unable to successfully complete potential acquisitions which could impair our growth. The price of our common stock may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control. Our share price is likely to fluctuate in the future because of the volatility of the stock market in general and a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: •general global economic conditions that impact infrastructure activity, including interest rate and currency movements; •quarterly variations in actual or anticipated results of our operations; •speculation in the press or investment community; •changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; •actions or announcements by our competitors; •actions by our principal stockholders; •trading volumes of our common stock; 40 Table of Contents •regulatory actions; •litigation; •U.S. and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; •loss or gain of a major customer; •additions or departures of key personnel; and •future issuances of our common stock. Market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of shares of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our stock. Price volatility may be greater if the public float and trading volume of shares of our common stock is low. In addition, if our operating results and net income fail to meet the expectations of stock analysts and investors, we may experience an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our stock. Our ability to pay regular dividends to our stockholders is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and may be limited by our holding company structure, the covenants in our debt instruments and applicable provisions of Delaware law. Our Board of Directors may, in its discretion, decrease the level of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. In addition, as a holding company, we will be dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to generate earnings and cash flows and distribute them to us so that we may pay our obligations and expenses and pay dividends to our stockholders. Our ability to pay future dividends and the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us will be subject to our and their respective operating results, cash requirements and financial condition, the applicable laws of the State of Delaware (which may limit the amount of funds available for distribution), compliance with covenants and financial ratios related to existing or future indebtedness and other agreements with third parties. If, as a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, we are unable to generate sufficient distributions from our business, we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce or eliminate, the payment of dividends on our shares. Our stockholder rights agreement, designed to increase benefit to our shareholders, could also discourage or prevent potential acquisition proposals and could deter a change of control. On February 27, 2009, our Board of Directors authorized and declared a dividend of one preferred stock purchase right (a "Right") for each share of common stock to stockholders of record as of the close of business on April 23, 2009. Our shareholders approved this action and we entered into a rights agreement on April 24, 2009. Initially the Right is not exercisable and will trade with our common stock. The Right may be exercisable under certain circumstances, including a person or group acquiring, or the commencement of a tender or exchange offer that would result in a person or group acquiring, beneficial ownership of more than 20% of the outstanding shares of common stock. Upon exercise of the Right, each Right holder, other than the person or group triggering the plan, will have the right to purchase from us 1/1000th of a share of junior preferred stock (subject to adjustment) or, at our option, shares of common stock having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the Right. Each fractional share of the junior preferred stock has terms designed to make it substantially the economic equivalent of one share of common stock. This rights agreement expires on April 23, 2012. Our rights agreement is designed to, among other things, deter the use of coercive or abusive takeover tactics by one or more parties interested in acquiring the Company or a significant position in the Company's common stock without offering fair value to all stockholders, as well as to generally assist the Board in representing the interests of all stockholders in connection with any takeover proposals. The rights agreement would accomplish these objectives by encouraging a potential acquirer to negotiate with the Board to have the Rights redeemed or the rights agreement amended prior to such 41 Table of Contents party exceeding the ownership thresholds set forth in the rights agreement. If the Rights are not redeemed (or the rights agreement is not amended to permit the particular acquisition) and such party exceeds the ownership thresholds, the Rights become exercisable at a discounted price resulting in both a dilution of the party's holding in the Company and making an acquisition thereof significantly more expensive by significantly increasing the number of shares that would have to be acquired to effect a takeover. Our rights agreement, though designed to benefit current shareholders by allowing more time for thoughtful consideration of the offer and encouraging officers to suggest a higher price for the Company's shares, may also discourage third parties from attempting to purchase our Company or a significant position in our common stock, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock. We may be required to satisfy certain indemnification obligations to Mueller Water or may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from Mueller Water. In connection with the spin-off of Mueller Water Products, Inc. ("Mueller Water") on December 14, 2006, we entered into certain agreements with Mueller Water, including an income tax allocation agreement and a joint litigation agreement. Under the terms of those agreements, we and Mueller Water agreed to indemnify each other with respect to the indebtedness, liabilities and obligations that will be retained by our respective companies, including certain tax and litigation liabilities. These indemnification obligations could be significant. For example, to the extent that we or Mueller Water take any action that would be inconsistent with the treatment of the spin-off of Mueller Water as a tax-free transaction under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, then any tax resulting from such actions is attributable to the acting company. The ability to satisfy these indemnities if called upon to do so will depend upon the future financial strength of each of our companies. We cannot determine whether we will have to indemnify Mueller Water for any substantial obligations after the distribution. If Mueller Water has to indemnify us for any substantial obligations, Mueller Water may not have the ability to satisfy those obligations. If Mueller Water is unable to satisfy its obligations under its indemnity to us, we may have to satisfy those obligations. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or acts of war may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the U.S. or its allies, or military or trade disruptions affecting our customers or the economy as a whole may materially adversely affect our operations or those of our customers. As a result, there could be delays or losses in transportation and deliveries of coal to our customers, decreased sales of our coal and extension of time for payment of accounts receivable from our customers. Strategic targets such as energy-related assets may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. In addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. Any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 42 Table of Contents 