Item 1A. Risk Factors (a) Narrative Description of Business General Walter Industries, Inc. ("the Company"), organized in 1987, is a diversified company that operates in five reportable segments: Natural Resources, Sloss, Financing, Homebuilding and Other. Through these operating segments, the Company offers a diversified line of products and services including coal and natural gas, furnace and foundry coke and slag fiber, mortgage financing, and home construction. Our businesses may be grouped in the following broad categories: Natural Resources and Sloss. Our Natural Resources segment consists primarily of Jim Walter Resources, Inc. ("JWR"), Tuscaloosa Resources, Inc. ("TRI"), Kodiak Mining Company, LLC ("Kodiak") and United Land Corporation ("United Land"). In 2007, JWR produced 5.8 million tons of high quality metallurgical coal. In addition, JWR owns 50% of Black Warrior Methane Corp., which extracts coalbed methane gas; JWR's portion of the production was 7.2 billion cubic feet of natural gas in 2007. United Land was reclassified from the Other segment to the Natural Resources segment in 2007, as it is the parent company of TRI and Kodiak. All results have been revised to reflect this change. The Company owns a 51% interest in Kodiak, which operates an underground mine in Shelby County, Alabama designed primarily to produce steam coal. TRI was acquired on August 31, 2007 and mines primarily low-sulfur coal for the industrial and electric utility markets. Since August 31, 2007, TRI has sold and produced 247,000 tons of coal. Sloss is a manufacturer of furnace and foundry coke and slag fiber. In 2007, Sloss sold 431,000 tons of furnace and foundry coke. Financing and Homebuilding. Our Financing segment, which includes Walter Mortgage Company ("WMC"), originates, purchases, services and securitizes non-conforming instalment notes and loans that are secured by mortgages and liens. The mortgage portfolio at December 31, 2007 was approximately $1.8 billion. Our Homebuilding segment includes Jim Walter Homes, Inc. ("JWH"), which is a leading on-your-lot homebuilder. JWH, which has a significant presence in the southeastern United States, provides mortgage financing for approximately 94.3% of the homes we build and sells these originated notes to WMC. Other. The Other segment includes the Company's other land subsidiaries and corporate expenses. Recent Developments On February 19, 2008, the Company announced a restructuring of JWH Holding Company, LLC, the Company's Financing and Homebuilding business. Thirty-six underperforming Jim Walter Homes sales centers have closed or will close as part of the restructuring. The closure of the sales centers will result in a reduction in divisions from eight to five. In addition, reductions in corporate overhead have been taken. As a result of this restructuring, the Company expects to record a restructuring charge in the range of $6.0 million to $8.0 million, with the majority of this amount to be recognized in the first quarter 2008, resulting from asset impairments and a 25% reduction in workforce. The Company expects to offset the impact of lower sales volumes with annualized reductions in operating expenses in the range of $26.0 to $28.0 million, with a significant portion expected to be recognized in 2008. As previously announced, the Company continues to evaluate strategic alternatives for its Financing and Homebuilding businesses. In February 2008, the Board of Directors assigned the Company's former Chief Financial Officer to focus exclusively on accelerating the implementation of 2 separating the Financing and Homebuilding business from the remaining Walter Industries' energy assets. The Company makes its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments thereto available on its website at www.walterind.com without charge as soon as reasonably practical after filing or furnishing these reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Additionally, the Company will also provide, without charge, a copy of its Form 10-K to any shareholder by mail. Requests should be sent to Walter Industries Inc., Attention: Shareholder Relations, 4211 W. Boy Scout Boulevard, Tampa, Florida 33607. You may read and copy any document the Company files at the SEC's public reference room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room. The Company's SEC filings are also available to the public from the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov. (b) Industry Segments The Company's industry segment information is included in Note 18 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" included herein. (c) Description of Business Natural Resources Jim Walter Resources, Inc. The operations of Jim Walter Resources, Inc. ("JWR") are conducted through its Mining Division, which mines and sells high quality metallurgical coal from two underground mines in Alabama, and its De-Gas Division, which extracts and sells natural gas from the coal seams owned or leased by JWR. In 2004, the Company announced a project to expand production in an area called Mine No. 7 East. The new mine area will consist of one additional longwall unit and three continuous miner sections, providing incremental annual production capacity of approximately 2.7 million tons. The investment of approximately $177.2 million will result in longwall production beginning in early 2009. Capital expenditures through December 31, 2007 related to this expansion project amounted to $122.3 million and are expected to be approximately $39.5 million in 2008. In December 2006, mining operations ceased at Mine No. 5 as planned. The preparation plant at Mine No. 5 will remain operational and serve as the washing and shipping point for production associated with the Mine No. 7 East expansion project. The Mining Division had net sales and revenues of $556.7 million, $611.7 million and $493.5 million in the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Mining Division, headquartered in Brookwood, Alabama, currently has approximately 7.0 million tons of rated annual coal production capacity from its mines located in west central Alabama between the cities of Birmingham and Tuscaloosa. The Mining Division extracts coal primarily from Alabama's Blue Creek and Mary Lee seams, which contain high-quality bituminous coal. Blue Creek coal offers high coking strength with low coking pressure, low sulfur and low-to-medium ash content with high BTU values that can be sold either as metallurgical coal (used to produce coke) or as compliance steam coal (used by electric utilities because it meets current environmental compliance specifications). The majority of coal is mined using longwall extraction technology with development support from continuous miners. Underground mining with longwall technology drives greater production efficiency, improved safety, higher coal recovery and lower production costs. The Mining Division currently operates one longwall mining system in each mine for primary production and four to six continuous 3 miner sections in each mine for the development of mains and longwall panel entries. As noted above, the Company is investing in Mine No. 7 East such that the mine will operate two longwall mining systems. The Mining Division's normal operating plan is a longwall/continuous miner production ratio of approximately 80% / 20%. This ratio is expected to remain consistent after the start of longwall operations for the Mine No. 7 East expansion in 2009. Environmental expenditures imposed by laws relating to mining have been insignificant to date and no substantial expenditures are expected in the future. The Mining Division's coal is principally sold to a diversified base of offshore metallurgical coal customers. The division's metallurgical coal is sold to customers in numerous markets throughout Europe, South America, Turkey and Africa. Most metallurgical coal sales are made under fixed price supply contracts, usually with a duration of one year, running principally from July through June. However, some sales of metallurgical coal can occur in the spot market as dictated by available JWR supply and market demand. During 2007, JWR's two largest customers represented approximately 13.7% and 12.7% of the Mining Division's sales, respectively. The Company believes that the loss of those customers would not have a material adverse effect on the results of operations of the Company as the loss of volume from these customers would be replaced with sales to other existing or new customers due to strong worldwide demand for metallurgical coal. Foreign sales accounted for approximately 97.5% of the Mining Division's net sales during the year. Domestic sales include coal sold to Sloss. The De-Gas Division, headquartered in Brookwood, Alabama, extracts and sells natural gas from the coal seams owned or leased by JWR, primarily through Black Warrior Methane Corp., an equal ownership joint venture with El Paso Production Co., a subsidiary of El Paso Corporation. JWR also operates a wholly owned low quality gas ("LQG") facility. The original motivation for the joint venture was to increase safety in JWR's Blue Creek mines by reducing natural gas concentrations with wells drilled in conjunction with the mining operations. There were 408 wells producing approximately 12.9 billion cubic feet of natural gas in 2007. JWR generated 7.2 billion cubic feet in 2007, including 1.4 billion cubic feet from its LQG operations. The degasification operation has improved mining operations and safety by reducing methane gas levels in the mines, and has been a profitable operation. Gas production is expected to remain level at 6.8 to 7.2 billion cubic feet in 2008. Kodiak Mining Company, LLC Kodiak Mining Company, LLC ("Kodiak") was established in 2005 to develop and operate an underground coal mine in Shelby County, Alabama. The mine has high BTU, low sulfur coal that can be sold into either the metallurgical or steam coal market. Production began in 2006 and is expected to reach 0.3 million tons in 2008. Annual production is expected to reach approximately 0.7 million tons until the coal is exhausted or a new mining area is developed. Tuscaloosa Resources, Inc. On August 31, 2007, the Company acquired all of the outstanding common shares of Tuscaloosa Resources, Inc. ("TRI") for approximately $12.5 million in cash and $8.5 million of acquired debt, of which $7.1 million was immediately retired. TRI operates surface mines of low-sulfur coal for the industrial and electric utility markets and is located in Brookwood, Alabama. The acquisition of TRI diversifies the Company's coal production base and provides an opportunity to grow the Company's domestic Natural Resources business. Since August 31, 2007, TRI has produced and sold 0.2 million tons of coal. In 2008, production is expected to be 0.8 million tons. 4 Sloss Sloss is a manufacturing company that began operations at its current location in 1920. Sloss, founded in 1881, is headquartered in Birmingham and has three major product lines: foundry coke, furnace coke and slag fiber. Foundry coke is marketed to ductile iron pipe plants and foundries producing castings, such as for the automotive and agricultural equipment industries. Furnace coke is sold primarily to the domestic steel industry for producing steel in blast furnaces. Slag fiber is an insulating fiber utilized principally as a raw material by acoustical ceiling tile manufacturers. Financing Within the Financing segment, WMC purchases instalment notes and mortgages originated by its affiliated homebuilder, JWH. WMC also offers financing to JWH homebuyers that is secured by first lien mortgages. WMC services all of its instalment notes and loans. References to instalment notes include mortgage loans originated or purchased by WMC. Mortgage loans in the portfolio, before allowances, were approximately $234.3 million and $213.9 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. At December 31, 2007, the Company held fixed (98%) and variable-rate (2%) instalment notes ranging from 5.16% to 14.13% annual percentage rate, without points or closing costs. See also Note 2 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" included herein for a description of the revenue recognition policies of Financing. Walter Mortgage Company WMC, headquartered in Tampa, Florida, was established in 2001 to provide home financing to the customers of JWH and is the successor to MSH (Mid-State Homes) subsequent to a merger during 2007. MSH was established in 1958 to purchase and service mortgage instalment notes originated by JWH. Through WMC, homebuyers have the option of financing land along with their home purchase, including a traditional cash down payment in lieu of land equity. Existing WMC customers also have the option of refinancing their mortgage with WMC. WMC initiated a program to acquire mortgage loans in 2003 that met the Company's underwriting criteria. Loans were purchased from various sellers of first lien mortgages. During 2007, approximately $39.9 million of mortgage loans were purchased by WMC from third parties. In August 2007, the Company terminated its third party loan acquisition program in light of volatile market conditions for securitizations of subprime mortgages. Currently, WMC funds instalment notes, as well as the mortgage loans it originates, using various warehouse lines of credit. Historically, once a critical mass of assets has been accumulated, WMC securitizes the assets using a grantor trust, structured as a financing, which requires that the assets and liabilities be recorded on the balance sheet with no gain for tax purposes. These business trusts acquire the mortgage instalment notes and loans using the proceeds from borrowings secured by the notes. WMC owns, directly or indirectly, all of the beneficial interests in these trusts. Only the notes in the trusts secure the borrowings of these trusts, and therefore these borrowings are non-recourse to the Company. For additional information on the notes, the trusts and their related borrowings, see Notes 6 and 12 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." At December 31, 2007, WMC's portfolio was geographically distributed as follows: Texas (33%), Mississippi (15%), Alabama (9%) and Florida and Louisiana, each (6%). The remaining portfolio was spread primarily in other southeastern states. Insurance Best Insurors, Inc. ("Best"), located in Tampa, Florida, is an agency that primarily places fire and extended insurance coverage for homeowners who finance through WMC or JWH. Cardem Insurance Company Ltd. ("Cardem"), located in Bermuda, primarily provides reinsurance of such insurance 5 placed through Best and provides captive coverage for various other Company risks, including workers' compensation for Homebuilding. Homebuilding Jim Walter Homes, Inc. Jim Walter Homes, Inc. and its subsidiaries ("JWH"), headquartered in Tampa, Florida, markets and supervises the construction of detached, single-family residential homes, on land owned by its customers, primarily in the southeastern United States where the weather generally permits year-round construction. JWH also provides financing on a significant portion of the homes sold. JWH historically has concentrated on the low- to moderately-priced segment of the housing market. JWH's products consist of over 60 models ranging in size from approximately 800 to over 3,000 square feet. At December 31, 2007, JWH operated 83 branch offices located in 16 states. Subsequent to December 31, 2007, that number will be reduced by the closure of 36 branch offices. See the Recent Developments section. During 2007, JWH's net sales originated in the following states: Texas (21%); Florida (7%); Mississippi (17%); Louisiana (8%); Alabama (14%); South Carolina, (5%), North Carolina (5%), and Georgia (6%). Approximately 60% of the branch offices are located on land that is owned by JWH, with the balance located on leased land. Branch offices serve as "sales centers" that are designed to allow customers to view various model homes. Historically, JWH has not owned or acquired land for home construction purposes and was not a land developer, which significantly limits the amount of required capital to operate the business. The actual construction of conventionally built homes sold by JWH is generally performed on customer-owned land by local building sub-contractors with their own crews, pursuant to subcontracts executed in connection with each home. JWH builds homes that are constructed to varying degrees of interior completion. JWH's product line includes "shell" homes, which are completely finished on the outside, with the inside containing only rough floors, ceiling joists, partition studding and closet framing. The majority of JWH's customers select all interior options, thereby purchasing a home considered to be "90+% complete," which generally excludes only driveway, landscaping and utility connections. Remaining units are sold at varying stages of interior finishing. The following chart shows the unit sales volume of JWH and the percent of homes sold by category for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005: Percent of Unit Sales Year Ending December 31, Units Built Shell Various Stages 90+% Complete Modular(1) 2007 2,594 4 % 8 % 85 % 3 % 2006 3,047 4 % 9 % 75 % 12 % 2005 3,022 4 % 6 % 68 % 22 % (1)JWH's modular manufacturing business, Crestline Homes, Inc., was sold in May 2007. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the average net sales price of all homes sold was $99,000, $90,000 and $79,000, respectively. The estimated backlog of homes to be constructed by JWH as of December 31, 2007 was 1,085, as compared to 1,642 at December 31, 2006. After the land is cleared and appropriate building permits are obtained, the time to construct a home averages between thirteen and twenty-one weeks. Most homes sold by JWH are purchased with financing provided by JWH. Qualified customers may obtain financing on an instalment sale contract offered on a fixed-rate mortgage basis generally requiring no down payment and secured by the home and the land on which it is situated. JWH does not charge closing costs, points, credit service fees or similar add-on charges and does not require private mortgage insurance. When a home is financed by JWH, the Company does not obtain third party appraisals or title insurance. JWH offers credit terms for up to a maximum of 30 years, up to 100% of the purchase price of the home. During 2007, the stated annual percentage rates offered for new mortgage instalment notes ranged between 7.3% and 12.3%. 6 If JWH finances the new home purchase, upon completion of construction to the agreed-upon percentage, in the ordinary course of business, JWH sells the building and instalment sale contract, the note and the related mortgage, deed of trust or other security instrument to WMC, pursuant to an agreement between JWH and WMC. Other The Other segment includes the Company's land subsidiaries other than United Land and corporate expenses. The land subsidiaries engage in maximizing the value of vacant land, primarily through outright property sales and realizing royalty income on coal, timber and other minerals. Corporate expenses consist primarily of salaries, overhead and other costs associated with executive management, finance, accounting, tax, treasury, legal, information technology, risk management, human resources, payroll and other management services. Seasonality Certain of the businesses of the Company are subject to seasonal fluctuations to varying degrees. Sales at JWH are usually their lowest in the winter months due to weather and the lower level of construction activity. The businesses of the Company may also be significantly influenced by the general economy, interest rates, levels of construction activity and commodity prices. Competition See "Risks Related to the Business—We face significant competition in the industries in which we operate and this competition could harm our sales, profitability and cash flows." Trade Names, Trademarks and Patents The names of each of the Company's subsidiaries are well established in the respective markets they serve. Management believes that customer recognition of such trade names is of significant importance. The Company's subsidiaries have numerous patents and trademarks. Management does not believe, however, that any one such patent or trademark is material to the Company's individual segments or to the business as a whole. Environmental The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment, both with respect to the construction and operation of many of its plants, mines and other facilities, and with respect to remediating environmental conditions that may exist at its own and other properties. The Company believes that it and its subsidiaries are in substantial compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Expenses charged to continuing operations for compliance of ongoing operations and for remediation of environmental conditions arising from past operations in the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were approximately $4.9 million, $4.9 million and $5.9 million, respectively. Because environmental laws and regulations continue to evolve, and because conditions giving rise to obligations and liabilities under environmental laws are in some circumstances not readily identifiable, it is difficult to forecast the amount of such future environmental expenditures or the effects of changing standards on future business operations or results. Consequently, such expenditures may be material in the future. Environmental matters are more fully described in Note 16 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." 7 Employees As of December 31, 2007, the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 2,700 people, of whom approximately 1,200 were hourly workers and 1,500 were salaried employees. Unions represented approximately 1,200 employees under collective bargaining agreements, of which approximately 1,000 were covered by one contract with the United Mine Workers of America that expires on December 31, 2011. Risks Related to the Business Our business may suffer as a result of changes in general and local economic conditions and other factors beyond our control, which could depress demand for our products. The industries in which we operate are cyclical and have experienced significant difficulties in the past. Our financial performance depends, in large part, on varying conditions in the markets we serve, which fluctuate in response to various factors beyond our control. The prices at which JWR sells coal and natural gas are largely dependent on prevailing market prices for those products. We have experienced significant price fluctuations in our coal and natural gas businesses, and we expect that such fluctuations will continue. Demand for and, therefore, the price of, coal and natural gas are driven by a variety of factors such as availability, price, location and quality of competing sources of coal or natural gas, availability of alternative fuels or energy sources, government regulation and economic conditions. In addition, reductions in the demand for metallurgical coal are caused by reduced steel production by our customers, increases in the use of substitutes for steel (such as aluminum, composites or plastics) and the use of steel-making technologies that use less or no metallurgical coal. Demand for steam coal is primarily driven by the consumption patterns of the domestic electric power generation industry, which, in turn, is influenced by demand for electricity and technological developments. We estimate that a 10% decrease in the price of coal in 2007 would have resulted in a reduction in pre-tax income of $52.4 million. Demand for natural gas is also affected by storage levels of natural gas in North America and consumption patterns, which can be affected by weather conditions. We estimate that a 10% decrease in the price in natural gas in 2007 would have resulted in a reduction in pre-tax income of approximately $1.2 million in that year, which includes the benefit of hedges. Occasionally we utilize derivative commodity instruments to manage fluctuations in natural gas prices. Currently, we have hedged approximately 69% of our anticipated 2008 natural gas production at an average price of $8.51 per mmbtu. Demand in the financing and homebuilding businesses is affected by changes in general and local economic conditions, such as interest rates, housing costs, migration patterns, employment levels, job growth and consumer confidence. During 2007, the homebuilding industry experienced a significant downturn, in which there was a significant decline in demand for new homes, an increased cancellation rate on pending contracts and an increase in mortgage default rates. The supply of alternatives to new homes, such as rental properties and existing homes for sale, has also depressed prices and reduced margins for the sale of repossessed homes. Almost all purchasers of our homes require mortgage financing for a substantial portion of the purchase price. As a result of actual and anticipated increases in default rates, lenders have tightened their credit requirements and have made it more difficult to borrow money in the mortgage market generally and the subprime market particularly. In addition, the interest rates charged to less credit-worthy subprime customers have increased significantly. Although we offer financing to our customers, we may no longer be able to offer terms that are attractive to potential buyers, thereby reducing demand for the homes we build. We are also subject to weather conditions and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods and fires, which can negatively impact the homebuilding business. This risk is exacerbated by our concentration in a limited number of states and especially in the coastal states in which we operate. 8 Our business is subject to risk of price increases and fluctuations and delay in the delivery of raw materials and purchased components. Most of the industries in which we operate require significant amounts of raw materials and labor and, therefore, shortages or increased costs of raw materials and labor could adversely affect our business or results of operations. Our coal mining operations rely on the availability of steel, petroleum products and other raw materials for use in various mining equipment. The availability and market prices of these materials are influenced by various factors that are beyond our control. Over the last year petroleum prices have risen significantly and historically, pricing for steel scrap and petroleum have fluctuated. Any inability to secure a reliable supply of these materials or shortages in raw materials used in the manufacturing of mining equipment or replacement parts could negatively impact our operating results. Our homebuilding operations rely on the availability of lumber, drywall, cement and other building materials. The availability and market prices of these materials are influenced by various factors that are beyond our control. Shortages of, and price increases for, such materials have occurred in the past and may occur in the future. Further, if we are unable to secure a proper level of skilled labor for our homebuilding operations, we may be unable to build as many houses or build them as cost effectively, and our levels of revenue and net income may be reduced. We face significant competition in the industries in which we operate and this competition could harm our sales, profitability and cash flows. The consolidation of the U.S. coal industry over the last several years has contributed to increased competition among coal producers. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources than we do. This competition may affect domestic coal prices and impact our ability to retain or attract customers. In addition, our coal business faces competition from foreign producers that sell their coal in the export market. The general economic conditions in foreign markets and changes in currency exchange rates are factors outside of our control that may affect coal prices. If our competitors' currencies decline against the U.S. dollar or against our customers' currencies, those competitors may be able to offer lower prices to our customers. Furthermore, if the currencies of our overseas customers were to significantly decline in value in comparison to the U.S. dollar, those customers may seek decreased prices for the coal we sell to them. These factors could reduce our profitability or result in lower coal sales. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local builders. Some of these competitors have greater financial resources and more established market positions than we do. We also compete against manufacturers and distributors of factory-built, manufactured homes, lower costs of capital, labor and material than we do. We compete for customers, raw materials and skilled subcontractors. We also compete with resales of existing homes and available rental housing. Our financing operations are subject to competition from third-party providers, many of which are substantially larger, may have a lower cost of funds or overhead than we do and may focus exclusively on providing such services. Coal and Energy businesses Our failure to retain our current customers and renew our existing customer contracts could adversely affect our business. A significant portion of the sales of our coal and methane gas are to long-term customers. The success of these businesses depends on our ability to retain our current clients and renew our existing customer contracts and solicit new customers. Our ability to do so generally depends on a variety of factors, including the quality and price of our products, our ability to market these products effectively 9 and the level of competition we face. If we are unsuccessful in renewing contracts with our long-term customers and they discontinue purchasing coal or methane gas from us, or if we are unable to sell our coal or methane gas to new customers on terms as favorable to us, our revenues could suffer significantly. If transportation for our coal becomes unavailable or uneconomic for our customers, our ability to sell coal could suffer. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal to the customer and, as a result, the cost of transportation is a critical factor in a customer's purchasing decision. Increases in our transportation costs could make our coal less competitive with the same or alternative products from competitors with lower transportation costs. We typically depend upon rail or barge to deliver coal to the port of Mobile, Alabama. While our coal customers typically arrange and pay for transportation from the port of Mobile to the point of use, disruption of any of these transportation services because of weather-related problems, strikes, lock-outs, transportation delays or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply our products to our customers, thereby resulting in lost sales and reduced profitability. All of our mines are served by only one rail carrier, which increases our vulnerability to these risks, although our access to barge transportation partially mitigates that risk. In addition, port congestion in the Port of Mobile and delayed coal shipments result in demurrage fees to us. If this disruption were to persist over an extended period of time, demurrage costs could significantly impact profits. Coal mining is subject to inherent risks and is dependent upon many factors and conditions beyond our control, which may cause our profitability and our financial position to decline. Coal mining is subject to inherent risks and is dependent upon a number of conditions beyond our control that can affect our costs and production schedules at particular mines. These risks and conditions include: •unexpected equipment or maintenance problems; •variations in geological conditions; •adverse weather and natural disasters; •underground mine flooding; •excess water ingress; •environmental hazards; •industrial accidents; •explosions caused by the ignition of coal dust or other explosive materials at our mines sites; and •fires caused by the spontaneous combustion of coal. These risks and conditions could result in damage to or the destruction of mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage, delays in mining, monetary losses and legal liability. For example, an explosion and fire occurred in Mine No. 5 in September 2001. This accident resulted in the deaths of thirteen employees and caused extensive damage to the mine. Our insurance coverage may not be available or sufficient to fully cover claims which may arise from these risks and conditions. We have also experienced adverse geological conditions in our mines, such as variations in coal seam thickness, variations in the competency and make-up of the roof strata, fault-related discontinuities in the coal seam and the potential for ingress of excessive amounts of methane 10 gas or water. Such adverse conditions may increase our cost of sales and reduce our profitability, and may cause us to decide to close a mine. Any of these risks or conditions could have a negative impact on our profitability, the cash available from our operations and our financial position. Forecasts of future performance, reserve estimates and a decline in pricing could affect our revenues. Forecasts of our future performance are based on estimates of our recoverable coal reserves. Reserves estimates are based on a number of sources of information, including engineering, geological, mining and property control maps, our operational experience of historical production from similar areas with similar conditions and assumptions governing future pricing and operational costs. Reserves estimates will change periodically to reflect mining activities, the acquisition or divestiture of reserve holdings and modifications of mining plans. Certain factors beyond our control could affect the accuracy of these estimates, including unexpected mining conditions, future coal prices, operating and development costs and federal, state and local regulations affecting mining operations. In addition, since we deplete our reserves as we mine, the ability to acquire additional reserves that are economically recoverable at the time and have comparable costs is paramount. Our results of operations are dependent upon our ability to mine our reserves and the prices at which we sell our coal. A decline in reserves and or pricing could adversely affect our operating results and profitability. Work stoppages and other labor relations matters may harm our business. The majority of our employees within the Jim Walter Resources and Sloss businesses are unionized and we have a risk of work stoppages as the result of strike or lockout. The majority of employees of JWR are members of United Mine Workers of America ("UMWA"). Normally, our negotiations with the UMWA follow the national contract negotiated with the UMWA by the Bituminous Coal Operators Association. The collective bargaining agreement expires December 31, 2011. At our Sloss subsidiary, our contract with the United Steelworkers of America expires December 6, 2010. We experienced a strike at Sloss at the end of 2001 that lasted eight months. Future work stoppages, labor union issues or labor disruptions at our key customers or service providers could impede our ability to produce and deliver our products, to receive critical equipment and supplies or to collect payment. This may increase our costs or impede our ability to operate one or more of our operations. The demand for coal in recent years has caused a significant constriction of the labor supply and higher labor costs. As coal producers compete for skilled miners, employee turnover rates have increased which negatively affects operating costs. If the shortage of skilled work force continues and we are unable to train and retain the necessary number of miners, it could adversely affect our productivity, costs and ability to expand production. The government extensively regulates our mining operations, which imposes significant costs on us, and future regulations could increase those costs or limit our ability to produce coal. Federal, state and local authorities regulate the coal mining industry with respect to matters such as employee health and safety, permitting and licensing requirements, air quality standards, water pollution, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, the discharge of materials into the environment, surface subsidence from underground mining, and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. In addition, we are subject to significant legislation mandating specified benefits for retired coal miners. Numerous governmental permits and approvals are required for mining operations. We are required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that any proposed exploration for or production of coal may have upon the environment. Compliance with these regulations may be costly and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations. The possibility exists that new legislation and/or regulations and 11 orders may be adopted that may have a material adverse effect on our mining operations, our cost structure and/or our customers' ability to use coal. New legislation or administrative regulations (or judicial interpretations of existing laws and regulations), including proposals related to the protection of the environment that would further regulate and tax the coal industry, may also require us or our customers to change operations significantly or incur increased costs. In addition, the United States and over 160 other nations are signatories to the 1992 Framework Convention on Climate Change, which is intended to limit emissions of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide. In December 1997, in Kyoto, Japan, the signatories to the convention established a binding set of emission targets for developed nations. Although the specific emission targets vary from country to country, the United States would have been required to reduce emissions to 93% of 1990 levels over a five-year budget period from 2008 through 2012. Although the United States has not ratified the emission targets and no comprehensive regulations focusing on U.S. greenhouse gas emissions are in place, these restrictions, whether through ratification of the emission targets or other efforts to stabilize or reduce greenhouse gas emissions, could adversely impact the price of and demand for coal. Recent mining accidents involving fatalities in Utah, West Virginia, Kentucky and Mexico have received national attention and prompted responses at the state and federal level that have resulted in increased scrutiny of current safety practices and procedures in the mining industry. For example, on January 26, 2006, West Virginia passed a new law imposing stringent new mine safety and accident reporting requirements and increased civil and criminal penalties for violations of mine safety laws. Other states have proposed or passed similar bills and resolutions addressing mine safety practices. On January 25, 2006, an Alabama circuit judge ordered the Alabama governor and legislature to take action to ensure the safety of Alabama's mineworkers. In addition, several mine safety bills have been introduced in Congress that would mandate improvements in mine safety practices, increase or add civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with such laws or regulations, and expand the scope of federal oversight, inspection and enforcement activities. On February 7, 2006, the federal Mine Safety and Health Administration ("MSHA") announced the promulgation of new emergency rules on mine safety. These rules address mine safety, equipment, training and emergency reporting requirements. On June 15, 2006, the Federal Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response (MINER) Act of 2006 was signed into law and implementation of the specific requirements is currently underway. The implementation of these new requirements will cause us to incur substantial additional costs which will impact our operating costs. Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could subject us to liability for fines, clean-ups and other damages, require us to incur significant costs to modify our operations and increase our costs. We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment and human health and safety, both with respect to the construction and operation of our mines and other facilities and with respect to remediating environmental conditions that may exist at our own and other properties. Certain of our facilities have been in operation for many years and, over time, we and predecessor operators of these facilities may have generated, used, handled and disposed of hazardous and other regulated wastes. Environmental liabilities could exist, including cleanup obligations at these or at other locations where materials from our operations were disposed of, which could result in future expenditures that cannot be currently quantified and which could reduce our profits. Failure to comply with any environmental, health or safety requirements could result in the assessment of damages, or imposition of penalties, suspension of production, a required upgrade or change to equipment, or processes or a cessation of operations at one or more of our facilities. Because these laws are complex, constantly changing and may be applied retroactively, there is a risk that these requirements, in particular as they change in the future, may impair our business, profitability and results of operations. 12 We may be required to conduct investigations and perform remedial activities that could require us to incur material costs in the future. Our operations involve the use of hazardous substances and the disposal of hazardous wastes. We may incur costs to manage these substances and wastes and may be subject to claims for damage for personal injury, property damages or damage to natural resources. Financing and Homebuilding Business The homebuilding industry is experiencing deteriorating conditions that may continue for an indefinite period and may further adversely affect our business and results of operations. During 2007, the U.S. homebuilding industry experienced a significant downturn which continues today. There has been a significant decline in demand for new homes, an increased cancellation rate on pending contracts and an increase in mortgage default rates. We, like many other homebuilders, experienced a drop in net new sales, a reduction in our operating margins and higher cancellations which resulted in our decision to close thirty-six underperforming homebuilding sales centers. The homebuilding market may not improve in the near future, and it may weaken further which may require the closure of additional sales centers which would have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. Our revenues are seasonal due to weather conditions and the level of construction activity at different times of the year; we may not be able to generate revenues that are sufficient to cover our expenses during certain periods of the year. The homebuilding industry is moderately seasonal, with lower production and lower revenues during the winter months. This seasonality in demand has resulted in fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. Because much of our overhead and expenses are fixed payments, seasonal trends can cause reductions in our overall profit margin and financial condition, especially during our slower periods. We are exposed to increased risks of delinquencies, defaults and losses on mortgages and loans associated with our strategy of providing credit or loans to lower credit grade borrowers. We specialize in originating, securitizing and servicing mortgage notes and loans (which we refer to as "mortgage assets") to credit-impaired borrowers who are generally unable to qualify for loans from conventional mortgage sources due to loan size, credit characteristics or other requirements. We are subject to various risks associated with the lower credit homeowners whom we finance, including, but not limited to, the risk that these borrowers will not pay the principal and finance charges or interest when due, and that the value received from the sale of the borrower's home in a repossession will not be sufficient to repay the borrower's obligation to us. Delinquencies and defaults cause reductions in our interest income and our net income. If delinquency rates and losses are greater than we expect: •the fair market value of the mortgage assets pledged as collateral for warehouse borrowings, and the value of our ownership interest in the securitizations, may decline; •we may be unable to obtain financing or continue to securitize loans on attractive terms, or at all; or •the allowances that we establish for losses on mortgage assets may be insufficient, which could depress our business, financial condition, liquidity and net income. During economic slowdowns or recessions, mortgage and loan delinquencies and defaults generally increase. In addition, significant declines in market values of residences securing mortgages and loans 13 reduce homeowners' equity in their homes. The limited borrowing power of our customers increases the likelihood of delinquencies, defaults and credit losses on foreclosure. Many of our borrowers have limited access to consumer financing for a variety of reasons, including a relatively high level of debt service, lower credit scores, higher loan-to-value ratios of the mortgage assets, past credit write-offs, outstanding judgments or prior bankruptcies. As a result, the actual rate of delinquencies, repossessions and credit losses on our loans are often higher under adverse economic conditions than those experienced in the mortgage loan industry in general. Approximately 2% of our mortgage portfolio is comprised of adjustable rate mortgage loans that require payment adjustments during the term of the loan. This adjustment in payment may result in increased payment defaults by borrowers who are unprepared or unable to meet higher payment requirements, resulting in higher losses to us. In addition, the rate of delinquencies may be higher after natural disasters or adverse weather conditions. For example, during 2005, Hurricane Katrina impacted several states where our mortgage asset portfolio had high concentrations of customers. As a result, our delinquency rate in those states increased substantially and we incurred a special $1.3 million provision for estimated losses on instalment notes that was anticipated as a result. After a default by a borrower, we evaluate the cost effectiveness of repossessing the property. Such default may cause us to charge our allowances for credit losses on our loan portfolio. Any material decline in real estate values increases the loan-to-value ratios of our loans and the loans backing our mortgage related securities. This weakens collateral values and the amount, if any, obtained upon repossessions. If we must take losses on a mortgage or loan backing our mortgage related securities or loans that exceed our allowances, our financial condition, net income and cash flows could suffer. The credit facilities we utilize for short-term borrowings to fund our mortgage origination business will expire in 2008. We depend on short-term borrowings to warehouse instalment notes and mortgages that are originated by our homebuilding subsidiaries and Walter Mortgage Company and serviced by Walter Mortgage Company. Therefore, we rely on our ability to renew or replace our maturing short-term borrowings on a continuous basis. We currently have two committed warehouse facilities providing up to an aggregate of $350.0 million of liquidity from three lenders and one surety provider, a $150.0 million facility that matures in July 2008 and a $200.0 million facility that matures in October 2008. If our lenders do not allow us to renew our borrowings or we cannot replace maturing borrowings at less favorable terms, we might have to seek other, less favorable and more costly sources of borrowing, sell our mortgage-related assets under adverse market conditions, or we might not be able to continue to originate mortgage assets, which would significantly harm our net income and may result in material losses. We pay interest on our borrowings under our variable funding warehouse loan facilities at a floating rate based on short-term rates, and, therefore, increases in short-term interest rates will increase the cost of our facilities. In addition, if the regulatory capital requirements imposed on our lenders change, it may significantly increase the cost of the variable funding loan facilities. Increases in the cost of our facilities would reduce our profitability and may prevent us from continuing to originate instalment notes and mortgages. The amount of financing we receive under our variable funding loan facilities is directly related to the lenders' valuation of the mortgage assets that secure the outstanding borrowings. Our lenders have the ability to re-evaluate the market value of the mortgage assets that secure our outstanding borrowings under certain circumstances. In the event the lenders determine that the value of the mortgage assets has decreased, they have the right to initiate a margin call. A margin call would require us to transfer additional instalment notes and mortgage loans to the lenders (without any advance of funds from the lenders for such transfer of mortgages) or to repay a portion of the 14 outstanding borrowings. Any such margin call could cause our mortgage origination business, net income and liquidity to decline significantly. Our strategy of securitizing our mortgage assets makes us dependent on the capital markets for liquidity and cash flow and exposes us to substantial risks. We have historically relied on our securitizations to generate cash for repayment of borrowings under our variable funding loan facilities, origination of new mortgage assets and general working capital purposes. Our ability to complete securitizations of our mortgage assets at favorable prices, or at all, depends on a number of factors, including: •the historical performance of the portfolio of mortgage assets we originate; •the ratings of our securities; •the availability of credit on acceptable economic terms or at all; •conditions in the capital markets generally and conditions in the mortgage asset-backed securities market specifically; and •general economic conditions. In 2007, mortgage securitization markets generally, and subprime securitization markets especially, have experienced a significant disruption that continues today. A large number of mortgage-backed securities have been down-graded or placed on credit watch, resulting in investors in asset-backed securities and other structured vehicles experiencing problems including declines in value and losses from their investments in subprime mortgage securities. As a result of these significant industry events, we may not succeed in securitizing mortgage assets at favorable terms or at all that we currently have outstanding under, and pledged to, our warehouse credit facilities or that we originate in the future. Our inability to continue to successfully securitize our mortgage assets on favorable terms or at all would significantly impair our mortgage origination business. Our mortgage-backed and asset-backed securitizations require over-collateralization and credit enhancement, which may decrease our cash flow and net income. Our securitizations typically have over-collateralization requirements that may decrease the value of our ownership interests in our securitizations and have a negative impact on our cash flow. Generally, if the mortgage assets of a securitization trust perform poorly, the over-collateralization feature of the securitization directs excess cash flow from the securitized pool of mortgage assets to the senior debt securities of the trust. During any period in which this happens we may not receive any cash distributions from such mortgage trust. In addition, the pool of mortgage assets of a securitization must meet certain performance tests based on delinquency levels, losses and other criteria in order for us to receive excess cash flow. If these performance tests, or significant terms regarding the calculation of such tests, are not satisfied, we would not be permitted to receive excess cash flow from the securitizations. Material variations in the rate or timing of our receipt of cash distributions from these mortgage assets may adversely affect our mortgage origination business and net income and may affect our overall financial condition. 15 Furthermore, our completed securitizations have used various forms of credit enhancement to improve the prices at which we issued our mortgage-backed and asset-backed notes. We currently expect that the credit enhancement for the senior tranches we issue in the future will be primarily in the form of subordination of certain tranches, financial guaranty insurance policies for the assets or both. The market for any subordinate securities we issue could remain illiquid or the subordinate securities could trade at steep discounts, thereby reducing the proceeds we receive from a securitization of mortgage assets. If we use financial guaranty insurance policies and the cost of these insurance policies increases, our net interest margin will be reduced. Such credit enhancement features may not be available at costs that would allow us to achieve profitable levels of net interest margin from the securitizations of our mortgage assets. We are subject to a number of federal, local and state laws and regulations that may prohibit or restrict our homebuilding, financing or servicing in some regions or areas. We are subject to a number of federal, state and local laws that affect homebuilding, sales, mortgage financing and servicing. There have been an increasing number of "anti-predatory" lending and consumer protection laws that impose restrictions on mortgage loans, including the amount of fees, interest or annual percentage rates that may be charged. As a result of current market conditions, the U.S. Congress has announced that it will be considering new legislation in the mortgage sector. To the extent that the enactment of new laws imposes broad restrictions on our homebuilding, financing and servicing, we may be subject to the imposition of requirements that offset sales, costs, profitability or may be prohibited or restricted from operating in certain regions or areas which could negatively impact our future revenue and earnings. We may be subject to product liability or warranty claims that could require us to make significant payments. We would be exposed to product liability claims in the event that the manufacture or use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. There is a risk that we will experience product liability or warranty losses in the future or that we will incur significant costs to defend such claims. Such losses and costs may be material. While we currently have product liability insurance, our product liability insurance coverage may not be adequate for any liabilities that may ultimately be incurred or the coverage may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A successful claim brought against us in excess of our available insurance coverage could require us to make significant payments or cause a requirement to participate in a product recall that may harm our reputation or profitability. We warrant our homebuilding products to be free of certain defects. As a homebuilder, we are subject in the ordinary course of our business to product liability and home warranty claims. Because of the long useful life of our products, it is possible that latent defects might not appear for several years. Any losses that result or are alleged to result from defects in our products, could subject us to claims for damages, including consequential damages. In addition, we could elect to replace our defective products and/or compensate our customers for damages caused by our defective products even in the absence of a formal claim for damages. The insurance that we maintain may not be available on terms acceptable to us in the future and such coverage may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. Any claims or expenses relating to defective products that result in liability exceeding our insurance coverage could raise costs and expenses or require us to accrue expenses or record accounting charges and reduce our net income. Further, claims of defects could result in adverse publicity against us, which could lower our sales and harm our business. Our homebuilding operations expose us to a variety of risks including liability for action of third parties. We are exposed to a variety of risks associated with construction activities, including shortages of raw materials or labor, cost overruns, unforeseen environmental or engineering problems and natural 16 disasters, any of which could delay construction and result in a substantial increase in our expenses. In addition, we contract with unaffiliated subcontractors to construct our homes. Although the timing and quality of our construction depends on the availability, skill and cost of these subcontractors, we are responsible for the performance of the entire contract, including work assigned to these subcontractors. Any construction delays or cost increases could harm our operating results, the impact of which may be further affected by our inability to raise sales prices. Economic conditions in Texas, North Carolina, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida have a material impact on our profitability because we conduct a significant portion of our business in these markets. We currently conduct a significant portion of our financing and homebuilding businesses in the Texas, North Carolina, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida markets. In the past, home prices and sales activities have declined from time to time and rates of loss and delinquency on mortgage assets have increased from time to time, driven primarily by weaker economic conditions in these markets. Furthermore, precarious economic and budget situations at the state government level may depress the market for our homes or hinder the ability of our customers to repay their obligations in areas in which we conduct the majority of our financing or homebuilding operations. Our concentration of homebuilding or mortgage assets in such markets may have a negative impact on our operating results. General Risks Our expenditures for postretirement benefit and pension obligations are significant and could be materially higher than we have predicted if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect. We provide a range of benefits to our employees and retired employees, including pensions and postretirement healthcare. We record annual amounts relating to these plans based on calculations specified by generally accepted accounting principles, which include various actuarial assumptions. As of December 31, 2007, we estimate that our pension plans' aggregate accumulated benefit obligation had a present value of approximately $173.5 million, and our fair value of plan assets was approximately $163.8 million. As of December 31, 2007, we estimate that our postretirement health care and life insurance plans' aggregate accumulated benefit obligation would have had a present value of approximately $335.0 million, and such benefits are not required to be funded. In respect of the funding obligations for our plans, we must make minimum cash contributions on a quarterly basis. Our estimated minimum funding obligation relating to these plans in 2008 is $36.0 million. We have estimated these obligations based on assumptions described under the heading "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Employee Benefits" in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements incorporated herein by reference. Assumed health care cost trend rates, discount rates, expected return on plan assets and salary increases have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the pension and health care plans. If our assumptions do not materialize as expected, cash expenditures and costs that we incur could be materially higher. Moreover, regulatory changes could increase our obligations to provide these or additional benefits. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries participate in multiemployer pension and healthcare plan trusts established for union employees. Contributions to these funds could increase as a result of future collective bargaining with the UMWA, a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency of other coal companies who currently contribute to these funds, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets, or other funding deficiencies. We have no current intention to withdraw from any multiemployer pension plan, but if we were to do so, under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), we would be liable for a proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested benefit liabilities upon our withdrawal. Through July 1, 2008, our withdrawal liability for the multiemployer pension plans amounts to $182.5 million. 17 We self-insure workers' compensation and certain medical and disability benefits, and greater than expected claims could reduce our profitability. We are self-insured for workers' compensation benefits for work-related injuries. Workers' compensation liabilities, including those related to claims incurred but not reported, are recorded principally using annual valuations based on discounted future expected payments using historical data of the division or combined insurance industry data when historical data is limited. In addition, JWR is responsible for medical and disability benefits for black lung disease under the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, as amended, and is self-insured against black lung related claims. We perform an annual evaluation of the overall black lung liabilities at the balance sheet date, using assumptions regarding rates of successful claims, discount factors, benefit increases and mortality rates, among others. Based on the actuarially determined present value of workers' compensation liabilities using a discount factor of 4.22% and 4.64% for 2007 and 2006, respectively, we have recorded liabilities of $33.7 million and $33.5 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. A one-percentage-point increase in the discount rate on the discounted claims liability at December 31, 2007 would decrease our liability by $0.3 million, while a one-percentage-point decrease in the discount rate would increase our liability by $0.3 million. If the number or severity of claims for which we are self insured increases, or we are required to accrue or pay additional amounts because the claims prove to be more severe than our original assessment, our operating results could be reduced. Natural disasters and adverse weather conditions could disrupt our businesses and adversely affect our results of operations. The climates of many of the states in which we operate, including Mississippi, Alabama, Florida and Texas, where we have some of our larger operations, present increased risks of natural disaster and adverse weather. Natural disasters or adverse weather in the areas in which we build, finance or insure homes or have mining or manufacturing operations, or in nearby areas, have in the past, and may in the future, delay new home deliveries, increase costs by damaging inventories of homes and construction materials, reduce the availability of raw materials and skilled labor, lead to significant insurance claims, cause increases in delinquencies and defaults in our mortgage portfolio, limit access to our mines and facilities, destroy or damage our inventory, reduce or eliminate certain modes of transporting our coal, increase volatility in the cost of raw materials and weaken the demand for new homes in affected areas, which could adversely affect our earnings. In addition, the rate of delinquencies may be higher after natural disasters or adverse weather conditions. For example, during the third quarter of 2005, Hurricane Katrina impacted several states where our mortgage asset portfolio had high concentrations of customers. As a result, our delinquency rate in those states increased substantially and we incurred a special $1.3 million provision for estimated losses on instalment notes that was anticipated as a result of Hurricane Katrina. The occurrence of large loss events due to natural disasters or adverse weather could reduce the insurance coverage available to us, increase the cost of our insurance premiums and weaken the financial condition of our insurers, thereby limiting our ability to mitigate any future losses we may incur from such events. Moreover, severe flooding, wind and water damage, forced evacuations, contamination, gas leaks, fire and environmental and other damage caused by natural disasters or adverse weather could lead to a general economic downturn, including increased prices for oil, gas and energy, loss of jobs, regional disruptions in travel, transportation and tourism and a decline in real-estate related investments, especially in the areas most directly damaged by the disaster or storm. 18 We may be unsuccessful in identifying or integrating suitable acquisitions, which could impair our growth. Our growth strategy is built upon organic growth and on taking advantage of opportunities to acquire complementary businesses. This strategy depends on the availability of acquisition candidates with businesses that can be successfully integrated into our existing business and that will provide us with complementary capabilities, products or services. However, we may be unable to identify targets that will be suitable for acquisition. In addition, if we identify a suitable acquisition candidate, our ability to successfully implement the acquisition will depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to finance the acquisition. Our ability to finance our acquisitions is subject to a number of factors, including the availability of adequate cash from operations or of acceptable financing terms and the terms of our debt instruments. In addition, there are many challenges to integrating acquired companies and businesses in our company, including eliminating redundant operations, facilities and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining key employees, managing different corporate cultures and achieving cost reductions and cross-selling opportunities. We may not be able to meet these challenges in the future. We may be required to satisfy certain indemnification obligations to Mueller Water or may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from Mueller Water. In connection with the spin-off of Mueller Water on December 14, 2006, we entered into certain agreements with Mueller Water, including an income tax allocation agreement and a joint litigation agreement. Under the terms of those agreements, we and Mueller Water agreed to indemnify each other with respect to the indebtedness, liabilities and obligations that will be retained by our respective companies, including certain tax and litigation liabilities. These indemnification obligations could be significant. For example, to the extent that we or Mueller Water take any action that would be inconsistent with the treatment of the spin-off of Mueller Water as a tax-free transaction under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, then any tax resulting from such actions is attributable to the acting company. The ability to satisfy these indemnities if called upon to do so will depend upon the future financial strength of each of our companies. We cannot determine whether we will have to indemnify Mueller Water for any substantial obligations after the distribution. If Mueller Water has to indemnify us for any substantial obligations, Mueller Water may not have the ability to satisfy those obligations. If Mueller Water is unable to satisfy its obligations under its indemnity to us, we may have to satisfy those obligations. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions and may diminish our ability to make payments on our indebtedness. Our debt instruments contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in certain transactions. Our 2005 Credit Agreement requires the maintenance of specified financial ratios and the satisfaction of other financial condition tests. In addition, our debt instruments require us to provide regular financial information to our lenders. Such requirements generally may be satisfied by our timely filing with the SEC of annual and quarterly reports under the Exchange Act. Our ability to satisfy those financial ratios, tests or covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and there is a risk that we will not meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our debt instruments. If an event of default were not remedied after the delivery of notice of default and lapse of any relevant grace period, the holders of our debt would be able to declare it immediately due and payable. The failure to maintain an aggregate of $350.0 million of liquidity in warehouse facilities for our Financing and Homebuilding business would breach a covenant under our 2005 Credit Facility. In such an event, we would seek to amend or obtain a waiver of this requirement from our lenders. If we are unable to obtain an amendment or waiver and we are unable to obtain alternate warehouse lines of credit, we would have an event of default under our 2005 Credit Agreement and the respective lenders could also terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those 19 amounts, such lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the indebtedness under our senior credit facilities. We may have substantial additional federal tax liability for accounting adjustments related to our method of recognizing revenue on the sale of homes and interest on related instalment note receivables, as well as to federal income taxes allegedly owed. The Internal Revenue Service has issued a Notice of Proposed Deficiency assessing additional tax of $82.2 million for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2000, December 31, 2000 and December 31, 2001. The proposed adjustments relate primarily to our method of recognizing revenue on the sale of homes and related interest on the instalment note receivables. In addition, a controversy exists with regard to federal income taxes allegedly owed by our consolidated group of companies for fiscal years 1980 through 1994. It is estimated that the amount of tax presently claimed by the Internal Revenue Service is approximately $34.0 million for issues currently in dispute in bankruptcy court. This amount if determined to be owed would result in substantial interest and penalties. While we believe that our tax filing positions have substantial merit and intend to defend any tax claims asserted, we cannot offer any assurance that the Internal Revenue Service or a federal court will uphold our tax filing positions. Moreover, although we believe that we have sufficient accruals to address any such tax claims, including related interest and penalties, an adverse ruling, judgment or court order could impose significant financial liabilities in excess of our accruals, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could require a significant cash payment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments: None 20 