Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain Factors Affecting Callaway Golf Company The financial statements contained in this report and the related discussions describe and analyze the Company’s financial performance and condition for the periods presented. For the most part, this information is historical. The Company’s prior results, however, are not necessarily indicative of the Company’s future performance or financial condition. The Company has also included certain forward-looking statements concerning the Company’s future performance or financial condition. These forward-looking statements are based upon current information and expectations and actual results could differ materially. The Company therefore has included the following discussion of certain factors that could cause the Company’s future performance or financial condition to differ materially from its prior performance or financial condition or from management’s expectations or estimates of the Company’s future performance or financial condition. These factors, among others, should be considered in assessing the Company’s future prospects and prior to making an investment decision with respect to the Company’s stock. 8 Table of Contents Successfully managing the frequent introduction of new products that satisfy changing consumer preferences is very important to the Company’s success. The Company’s main products, like those of its competitors, generally have life cycles of two years or less, with sales occurring at a much higher rate in the first year than in the second. Factors driving these short product life cycles include the rapid introduction of competitive products and quickly changing consumer preferences. In this marketplace, a substantial portion of the Company’s annual revenues is generated each year by products that are in their first year of life. These marketplace conditions raise a number of issues that the Company must successfully manage. For example, the Company must properly anticipate consumer preferences or its new products will not achieve sufficient market success to compensate for the usual decline in sales experienced by products already in the market. Second, the Company’s R&D and supply chain groups face constant pressures to design, develop, source and supply new products—many of which incorporate new or otherwise untested technology, suppliers or inputs. Third, for new products to generate equivalent or greater revenues than their predecessors, they must either maintain the same or higher sales levels with the same or higher pricing, or exceed the performance of their predecessors in one or both of those areas. Fourth, the relatively short window of opportunity for launching and selling new products requires great expertise in forecasting demand and assuring that supplies are ready and delivered during the critical selling periods. Finally, the rapid changeover in products creates a need to monitor and manage the close out of obsolete products both at retail and in the Company’s own inventory. Should the Company not successfully manage all of the risk factors associated with this rapidly moving marketplace, the Company’s sales and earnings may be adversely affected. A reduction in discretionary consumer spending could reduce sales of the Company’s products. The Company sells golf clubs, golf balls and golf accessories. These products are recreational in nature and are therefore discretionary purchases for consumers. Consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases of golf products during favorable economic conditions and when consumers are feeling confident and prosperous. Discretionary spending is also affected by many other factors, including general business conditions, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Purchases of the Company’s products could decline during periods when disposable income is lower, or during periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. Any significant decline in general economic conditions or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that adversely affect discretionary consumer spending, whether in the United States or in the Company’s international markets (which represent almost half of the Company’s total sales), could result in reduced sales of the Company’s products. A reduction in the number of rounds of golf played or in the number of golf participants could adversely affect the Company’s sales. The Company generates substantially all of its revenues from the sale of golf related products, including golf clubs, golf balls and golf accessories. The demand for golf related products, generally, and golf balls in particular, is directly related to the number of golf participants and the number of rounds of golf being played by these participants. If golf participation or the number of rounds of golf played decreases, sales of the Company’s products may be adversely affected. In the future, the overall dollar volume of the market for golf-related products may not grow or may decline. In addition, the demand for golf products is also directly related to the popularity of magazines, cable channels and other media dedicated to golf, television coverage of golf tournaments and attendance at golf events. The Company depends on the exposure of its products through advertising and the media or at golf tournaments and events. Any significant reduction in television coverage of, or attendance at, golf tournaments and events or any significant reduction in the popularity of golf magazines or golf channels, could reduce the visibility of the Company’s brand and could adversely affect the Company’s sales. 9 Table of Contents The Company may have limited opportunities for future growth in sales of golf clubs and golf balls. In order for the Company to significantly grow its sales of golf clubs or golf balls, the Company must either increase its share of the market for golf clubs or balls, or the market for golf clubs or balls must grow. The Company already has a significant share of worldwide sales of golf clubs and golf balls. Therefore, opportunities for additional market share may be limited. Furthermore, the Company does not believe there has been any material increase in the number of golfers worldwide in over five years. The Company also believes that overall dollar volume of the worldwide market for golf equipment sales has not experienced substantial growth in the past several years. In the future, the overall dollar volume of worldwide sales of golf clubs or golf balls may not grow or may decline. If the Company inaccurately forecasts demand for its products, it may manufacture either insufficient or excess quantities, which, in either case, could adversely affect its financial performance. The Company plans its manufacturing capacity based upon the forecasted demand for its products. The nature of the Company’s business makes it difficult to quickly adjust its manufacturing capacity if actual demand for its products exceeds or is less than forecasted demand. If actual demand for its products exceeds the forecasted demand, the Company may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of new products in time to fulfill actual demand, which could limit the Company’s sales and adversely affect its financial performance. On the other hand, if actual demand is less than the forecasted demand for its products, the Company could produce excess quantities, resulting in excess inventories and related obsolescence charges that could adversely affect the Company’s financial performance. The Company depends on single-source or a limited number of suppliers for some of its products, and the loss of any of these suppliers could harm its business. The Company is dependent on a limited number of suppliers for its clubheads and shafts, some of which are single-sourced. In addition, some of the Company’s products require specifically developed manufacturing techniques and processes which make it difficult to identify and utilize alternative suppliers quickly. If current suppliers are unable to deliver clubheads, shafts or other components, or if the Company is required to transition to other suppliers, the Company could experience significant production delays or disruption to its business. The Company also depends on a single or a limited number of suppliers for the materials it uses to make its golf balls. Many of these materials are customized for the Company. Any delay or interruption in such supplies could have a material adverse impact upon the Company’s golf ball business. If the Company did experience any such delays or interruptions, the Company may not be able to find adequate alternative suppliers at a reasonable cost or without significant disruption to its business. A significant disruption in the operations of the Company’s golf club assembly facilities in Carlsbad, California or its golf ball manufacturing facilities in Chicopee, Massachusetts could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s sales, profitability and results of operations. A substantial majority of the Company’s golf club products are assembled at and shipped from its facilities in Carlsbad, California. A large majority of the Company’s golf ball products are manufactured at and shipped from its facilities in Chicopee, Massachusetts. Any natural disaster or other significant disruption to the operation of these facilities could substantially disrupt the Company’s global supply chain coordination for the relevant golf club or golf ball business segment, including damage to inventory at the respective facilities. In addition, the Company could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with fulfilling orders and distributing product. As a result, a significant disruption at either of the Carlsbad, California or Chicopee, Massachusetts, facilities could adversely affect the Company’s sales, profitability and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents If the Company is unable to obtain at reasonable costs materials or electricity necessary for the manufacture of its products its business would be adversely affected. The Company’s size has made it a large consumer of certain materials, including steel, titanium alloys, carbon fiber and rubber. The Company does not produce these materials itself, and must rely on its ability to obtain adequate supplies in the world marketplace in competition with other users of such materials. In the future, the Company may be unable to obtain its requirements for such materials at a reasonable price or at all. An interruption in the supply of the materials used by the Company or a significant change in costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s golf club and golf ball manufacturing facilities use, among other resources, significant quantities of electricity to operate. An interruption in the supply of electricity or a significant increase in the cost of electricity could have a significant adverse effect upon the Company’s results of operations. A disruption in the service or a significant increase in the cost of the Company’s primary delivery and shipping services for its products and component parts could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company uses United Parcel Service, or UPS, for substantially all ground shipments of products to its U.S. customers. The Company uses air carriers and ship services for most of its international shipments of products. Furthermore, many of the components the Company uses to build its golf clubs, including clubheads and shafts, are shipped to the Company via air carrier and ship services. The Company’s inbound and outbound shipments are particularly dependent upon air carrier facilities at Los Angeles International Airport and ship service facilities at the Port of Los Angeles (Long Beach) If there were any significant interruption in service by such providers or at other significant airports or shipping ports, the Company may be unable to engage alternative suppliers or to receive or ship goods through alternate sites in order to deliver its products or components in a timely and cost-efficient manner. As a result, the Company could experience manufacturing delays, increased manufacturing and shipping costs, and lost sales as a result of missed delivery deadlines and product demand cycles. Any significant interruption in UPS services, air carrier services or ship services could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business. Furthermore, if the cost of delivery or shipping services were to increase significantly and the additional costs could not be covered by product pricing, the Company’s operating results could be significantly adversely affected. The Company faces intense competition in each of its markets. Golf Clubs. The golf club business is highly competitive, and is served by a number of well-established and well-financed companies with recognized brand names. New product introductions, price reductions, consignment sales, extended payment terms, “closeouts,” including closeouts of products that were recently commercially successful, and significant tour and advertising spending by competitors continue to generate intense market competition. Furthermore, continued downward pressure on pricing in the market for new clubs could have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s pre-owned club business as the gap narrows between the cost of a new club and a pre-owned club. Successful marketing activities, discounted pricing, consignment sales, extended payment terms or new product introductions by competitors could negatively impact the Company’s future sales. Golf Balls. The golf ball business is also highly competitive. There are a number of well-established and well-financed competitors, including one competitor with an estimated U.S. market share of approximately 50%. As competition in this business increases, many of these competitors are increasing advertising, tour or other promotional support. This increased competition has resulted in significant expenses for the Company in both tour and advertising support and product development. Unless there is a change in competitive conditions, these competitive pressures and increased costs will continue to adversely affect the profitability of the Company’s golf ball business. Accessories. The Company’s accessories include golf bags, golf gloves, golf footwear and other items. The Company faces significant competition in every region with respect to each of these product categories. In most cases, the Company is not the market leader with respect to its accessory markets. 11 Table of Contents The Company’s golf ball business has a concentrated customer base. The loss of one or more of the Company’s top customers could have a significant negative impact on this business. On a consolidated basis, no one customer that distributes the Company’s golf clubs or golf balls in the United States accounted for more than 3% of the Company’s revenue in 2007 and 2006 and 4% in 2005. On a segment basis, the Company’s golf ball customer base is much more concentrated than its golf club customer base. In 2007, the top five golf ball customers accounted for approximately 20% of the Company’s total golf ball sales in the United States. A loss of one or more of these customers could have a significant adverse effect upon the Company’s golf ball sales. International political instability and terrorist activities may decrease demand for the Company’s products and disrupt its business. The Company’s business has been adversely affected in recent years by terrorist activities and armed conflicts, such as the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, bombings in London and Spain, incidents of Anthrax poisoning and the military actions in the Middle East, including the war in Iraq. Future similar or threatened events or conflicts could have an adverse effect upon the United States or worldwide economy and could cause decreased demand for the Company’s products as consumers’ attention and interest are diverted from golf and become focused on issues relating to these events. If such events disrupt domestic or international air, ground or sea shipments, the Company’s ability to obtain the materials necessary to produce and sell its products and to deliver customer orders would be harmed. Furthermore, such events can negatively impact tourism, which could adversely affect the Company’s sales to retailers at resorts and other vacation destinations. The Company’s business could be harmed by the occurrence of natural disasters or pandemic diseases. The occurrence of a natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, flood or hurricane, or the outbreak of a pandemic disease, such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome or the Avian Flu, could significantly adversely affect the Company’s business. A natural disaster or a pandemic disease could significantly adversely affect both the demand for the Company’s products as well as the supply of the components used to make the Company’s products. Demand for golf products also could be negatively affected as consumers in the affected regions restrict their recreational activities and as tourism to those areas declines. If the Company’s suppliers experienced a significant disruption in their business as a result of a natural disaster or pandemic disease, the Company’s ability to obtain the necessary components to make its products could be significantly adversely affected. In addition, the occurrence of a natural disaster or the outbreak of a pandemic disease generally restricts the travel to and from the affected areas, making it more difficult in general to manage the Company’s international operations. The Company has significant international sales and purchases, and is exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations. A significant portion of the Company’s purchases and sales are international purchases and sales, and the Company conducts transactions in approximately 12 currencies worldwide. Conducting business in such various currencies exposes the Company to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. The Company’s financial results are reported in U.S. dollars. As a result, transactions conducted in foreign currencies must be translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes based upon the applicable foreign currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in these foreign currency exchange rates therefore may positively or negatively affect the Company’s reported financial results. The effect of the translation of foreign currencies on the Company’s financial results can be significant. The Company therefore engages in certain hedging activities to mitigate over time the impact of the translation of foreign currencies on the Company’s financial results. The Company’s hedging activities are designed to reduce, but not to eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. Factors that could affect the effectiveness of the 12 Table of Contents Company’s hedging activities include accuracy of sales forecasts, volatility of currency markets and the availability of hedging instruments. Since the hedging activities are designed to reduce volatility, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger U.S. dollar but also reduce the positive impact of a weaker U.S. dollar. The Company’s future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which the Company conducts business. The degree to which the Company’s financial results are affected will depend in part upon the effectiveness or ineffectiveness of the Company’s hedging activities. Foreign currency fluctuations can also affect the prices at which products are sold in the Company’s international markets. The Company therefore adjusts its pricing based in part upon fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Significant unanticipated changes in foreign currency exchange rates make it more difficult for the Company to manage pricing in its international markets. If the Company is unable to adjust its pricing in a timely manner to counteract the effects of foreign currency fluctuations, the Company’s pricing may not be competitive in the marketplace and the Company’s financial results in its international markets could be adversely affected. The Company’s business and therefore operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations. The Company’s business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. The Company’s first quarter sales generally represent the Company’s sell-in to the golf retail channel of its golf club products for the new golf season. Orders for many of these sales are received during the fourth quarter of the prior year. The Company’s second and third quarter sales generally represent re-order business for golf clubs. Sales of golf clubs during the second and third quarters are significantly affected not only by the sell-through of the Company’s products that were sold into the channel during the first quarter but also by the sell-through of products by the Company’s competitors. Retailers are sometimes reluctant to re-order the Company’s products in significant quantity when they already have excess inventory of products of the Company or its competitors. The Company’s sales of golf balls are generally associated with the level of rounds played in the areas where the Company’s products are sold. Therefore, golf ball sales tend to be greater in the second and third quarters, when the weather is good in most of the Company’s key markets and rounds played are up. Golf ball sales are also stimulated by product introductions as the retail channel takes on initial supplies. Like golf clubs, re-orders of golf balls depend on the rate of sell-through. The Company’s sales during the fourth quarter are generally significantly less than the other quarters because in many of the Company’s principal markets fewer people are playing golf during that time of year due to cold weather. Furthermore, in the past, the Company announced its new product line at the beginning of each calendar year. In recent years, the Company has departed from that practice and now generally announces its new product line in the fourth quarter to allow retailers to plan better. Such early announcements of new products could cause golfers, and therefore the Company’s customers, to defer purchasing additional golf equipment until the Company’s new products are available. Such deferments could have a material adverse effect upon sales of the Company’s current products or result in close out sales at reduced prices. The seasonality of the Company’s business could exacerbate the adverse effects of unusual or severe weather conditions on the Company’s business. Because of the seasonality of the Company’s business, the Company’s business can be significantly adversely affected by unusual or severe weather conditions. Unfavorable weather conditions generally result in fewer golf rounds played, which generally results in reduced demand for golf products, generally, and golf balls in particular. Furthermore, catastrophic storms can negatively affect golf rounds played both during the storms and afterward, as storm damaged golf courses are repaired and golfers focus on repairing the damage to their homes, businesses and communities. Consequently, sustained adverse weather conditions, especially during the warm weather months, could materially affect the Company’s sales. 13 Table of Contents Changes in equipment standards under applicable Rules of Golf could adversely affect the Company’s business. New golf club and golf ball products generally seek to satisfy the standards established by the USGA and R&A because these standards are generally followed by golfers within their respective jurisdictions. The USGA rules are generally followed in the United States, Canada and Mexico, and the R&A rules are generally followed in most other countries throughout the world. The Rules of Golf as published by the R&A and the USGA are virtually the same. The Company believes that all of its products conform to both the USGA and R&A rules. The Company’s future products may not satisfy USGA and/or R&A standards or existing USGA and/or R&A standards may be altered in ways that adversely affect the sales of the Company’s products or the Company’s brand. If a change in rules were adopted and caused one or more of the Company’s current products to be non-conforming, the Company’s sales of such products could be adversely affected. Furthermore, any such new rules could restrict the Company’s ability to develop new products. The Company’s sales could decline if professional golfers do not endorse or use the Company’s products. The Company establishes relationships with professional golfers in order to evaluate and promote Callaway Golf, Odyssey, Top-Flite and Ben Hogan branded products. The Company has entered into endorsement arrangements with members of the various professional tours, including the Champions Tour, the PGA Tour, the LPGA Tour, the PGA European Tour, the Japan Golf Tour and the Nationwide Tour. While most professional golfers fulfill their contractual obligations, some have been known to stop using a sponsor’s products despite contractual commitments. If certain of the Company’s professional endorsers were to stop using the Company’s products contrary to their endorsement agreements, the Company’s business could be adversely affected in a material way by the negative publicity or lack of endorsement. The Company believes that professional usage of its golf clubs and golf balls contributes to retail sales. The Company therefore spends a significant amount of money to secure professional usage of its products. Many other companies, however, also aggressively seek the patronage of these professionals and offer many inducements, including significant cash incentives and specially designed products. There is a great deal of competition to secure the representation of tour professionals. As a result, it is becoming increasingly difficult and more expensive to attract and retain such tour professionals. The inducements offered by other companies could result in a decrease in usage of the Company’s products by professional golfers or limit the Company’s ability to attract other tour professionals. A decline in the level of professional usage of the Company’s products could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s sales and business. If the Company is unable to enforce its intellectual property rights, its reputation and sales could be adversely affected. The golf club industry, in general, has been characterized by widespread imitation of popular club designs. The Company has an active program of monitoring, investigating and enforcing its proprietary rights against companies and individuals who market or manufacture counterfeits and “knock off” products. The Company asserts its rights against infringers of its copyrights, patents, trademarks, and trade dress. However, these efforts may not be successful in reducing sales of golf products by these infringers. Additionally, other golf club manufacturers may be able to produce successful golf clubs which imitate the Company’s designs without infringing any of the Company’s copyrights, patents, trademarks, or trade dress. The failure to prevent or limit such infringers or imitators, could adversely affect the Company’s reputation and sales. 14 Table of Contents The Company may become subject to intellectual property suits that could cause it to incur significant costs or pay significant damages or that could prohibit it from selling its products. An increasing number of the Company’s competitors have sought to obtain patent, trademark, copyright or other protection of their proprietary rights and designs for golf clubs and golf balls. As the Company develops new products, it attempts to avoid infringing the valid patents and other intellectual property rights of others. Before introducing new products, the Company’s legal staff evaluates the patents and other intellectual property rights of others to determine if changes are required to avoid infringing any valid intellectual property rights that could be asserted against the Company’s new product offerings. From time to time, third parties have claimed or may claim that the Company’s products infringe upon their proprietary rights. The Company evaluates any such claims and, where appropriate, has obtained or sought to obtain licenses or other business arrangements. To date, there have been no interruptions in the Company’s business as a result of any claims of infringement. However, in the future, intellectual property claims could force the Company to alter its existing products or withdraw them from the market or could delay the introduction of new products. Various patents have been issued to the Company’s competitors in the golf ball industry and these competitors may assert that the Company’s golf balls infringe their patent or other proprietary rights. If the Company’s golf balls are found to infringe third party intellectual property rights, the Company may be unable to obtain a license to use such technology, and it could incur substantial costs to redesign its products or to defend legal actions. The Company’s brands may be damaged by the actions of its licensees. The Company licenses its trademarks to third party licensees who produce, market and sell their products bearing the Company’s trademarks. The Company chooses its licensees carefully and imposes upon such licensees various restrictions on the products, and on the manner, on which such trademarks may be used. In addition, the Company requires its licensees to abide by certain standards of conduct and the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they do business. However, if a licensee fails to adhere to these requirements, the Company’s brands could be damaged. The Company’s brands could also be damaged if a licensee becomes insolvent or by any negative publicity concerning a licensee or if the licensee does not maintain good relationships with its customers or consumers, many of which are also the Company’s customers and consumers. Sales of the Company’s products by unauthorized retailers or distributors could adversely affect the Company’s authorized distribution channels and harm the Company’s reputation. Some of the Company’s products find their way to unauthorized outlets or distribution channels. This “gray market” for the Company’s products can undermine authorized retailers and foreign wholesale distributors who promote and support the Company’s products, and can injure the Company’s image in the minds of its customers and consumers. On the other hand, stopping such commerce could result in a potential decrease in sales to those customers who are selling the Company’s products to unauthorized distributors or an increase in sales returns over historical levels. While the Company has taken some lawful steps to limit commerce of its products in the “gray market” in both the United States and abroad, it has not stopped such commerce. The Company has significant international operations and is exposed to risks associated with doing business globally. The Company’s management believes that controlling the distribution of its products in certain major markets in the world has been and will be an element in the future growth and success of the Company. The Company sells and distributes its products directly in many key international markets in Europe, Asia, North America and elsewhere around the world. These activities have resulted and will continue to result in investments in inventory, accounts receivable, employees, corporate infrastructure and facilities. In addition, there are a limited number of suppliers of golf club components in the United States, and the Company has increasingly become more reliant on suppliers and vendors located outside of the United States. The operation of 15 Table of Contents foreign distribution in the Company’s international markets, as well as the management of relationships with international suppliers and vendors, will continue to require the dedication of management and other Company resources. As a result of this international business, the Company is exposed to increased risks inherent in conducting business outside of the United States. In addition to foreign currency risks, these risks include: • increased difficulty in protecting the Company’s intellectual property rights and trade secrets; • unexpected government action or changes in legal or regulatory requirements; • social, economic or political instability; • the effects of any anti-American sentiments on the Company’s brands or sales of the Company’s products; • increased difficulty in ensuring compliance by employees, agents and contractors with the Company’s policies as well as with the laws of multiple jurisdictions, including but not limited to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local international environmental, health and safety laws, and increasingly complex regulations relating to the conduct of international commerce; • increased difficulty in controlling and monitoring foreign operations from the United States, including increased difficulty in identifying and recruiting qualified personnel for its foreign operations; and • increased exposure to interruptions in air carrier or ship services. Although the Company believes the benefits of conducting business internationally outweigh these risks, any significant adverse change in circumstances or conditions could have a significant adverse effect upon the Company’s operations, financial performance and condition. If the Company’s customers and distributors do not pay for their purchases in a timely manner, the Company’s financial results would be harmed. The Company primarily sells its products to golf equipment retailers directly and through wholly owned domestic and foreign subsidiaries, and to foreign distributors. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers’ financial condition and generally requires no collateral from these customers. Historically, the Company’s bad debt expense has been low. However, a downturn in the retail golf equipment market could result in increased delinquent or uncollectible accounts for some of the Company’s significant customers. A failure by the Company’s customers to pay a significant portion of outstanding account receivable balances would adversely impact the Company’s performance and financial condition. The Company relies on increasingly complex information systems for management of its manufacturing, distribution, sales and other functions. If the Company’s information systems fail to perform these functions adequately or if the Company experiences an interruption in their operation, its business and results of operations could suffer. All of the Company’s major operations, including manufacturing, distribution, sales and accounting, are dependent upon the Company’s complex information systems. The Company’s information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • earthquake, fire, flood, hurricane and other natural disasters; • power loss, computer systems failure, Internet and telecommunications or data network failure; and • hackers, computer viruses, software bugs or glitches. Any damage or significant disruption in the operation of such systems or the failure of the Company’s information systems to perform as expected could disrupt the Company’s business, result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess inventory and product shortages and otherwise adversely affect the Company’s operations, financial performance and condition. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 