Risk Factors Certain Factors Affecting Callaway Golf Company The Company’s business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. We urge you to carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including those risks set forth under the heading entitled “Important Notice to Investors,” and in other documents that the Company files with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, before making any investment decision with respect to the Company’s securities. If any of the risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could be adversely affected. Under these circumstances, the trading prices of the Company’s securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in the Company’s securities. Unfavorable economic conditions could have a negative impact on consumer discretionary spending and therefore reduce sales of the Company’s products. The Company sells golf clubs, golf balls and golf accessories. These products are recreational in nature and are therefore discretionary purchases for consumers. Consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases of golf products during favorable economic conditions and when consumers are feeling confident and prosperous. Discretionary spending is also affected by many other factors, including general business conditions, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxes, and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Purchases of the Company’s products could decline during periods when disposable income is lower, or during periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. A significant or prolonged decline in general economic conditions or uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that adversely affect consumer discretionary spending, whether in the United States or in the Company’s international markets, could result in reduced sales of the Company’s products, which could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company’s operating results may be adversely affected by the current debt crisis in Europe and elsewhere and by related global economic conditions. The current Greek debt crisis and related European financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the European currencies, including the Euro, to further deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power of European customers. In addition, the European crisis is contributing to instability in global credit markets. The world has recently experienced a global macroeconomic downturn, and if global economic and market conditions, or 10 economic conditions in Europe, the United States or other key markets, remain uncertain, persist, or deteriorate further, consumer purchasing power and demand for Company products could decline, which could have a material adverse impacts on the Company’s operating results and financial condition and cash flows. A severe or prolonged economic downturn could adversely affect our customers’ financial condition, their levels of business activity and their ability to pay trade obligations. The Company primarily sells its products to golf equipment retailers directly and through wholly-owned domestic and foreign subsidiaries, and to foreign distributors. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers’ financial condition and generally requires no collateral from these customers. Historically, the Company’s bad debt expense has been low. However, a prolonged downturn in the general economy could adversely affect the retail golf equipment market which in turn, would negatively impact the liquidity and cash flows of our customers, including the ability of our customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and to pay their trade obligations. This could result in increased delinquent or uncollectible accounts for some of the Company’s significant customers. A failure by the Company’s customers to pay on a timely basis a significant portion of outstanding account receivable balances would adversely impact the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company has significant international sales and purchases, and unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect the Company’s results of operations. A significant portion of the Company’s purchases and sales are international purchases and sales, and the Company conducts transactions in approximately 19 currencies worldwide. Conducting business in such various currencies exposes the Company to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. The Company’s financial results are reported in U.S. dollars. As a result, transactions conducted in foreign currencies must be translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes based upon the applicable foreign currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in these foreign currency exchange rates therefore may positively or negatively affect the Company’s reported financial results and can significantly affect period-over-period comparisons. The effect of the translation of foreign currencies on the Company’s financial results can be significant. The Company therefore engages in certain hedging activities to mitigate over time the impact of the translation of foreign currencies on the Company’s financial results. The Company’s hedging activities can reduce, but will not eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. The extent to which the Company’s hedging activities mitigate the effects of foreign currency translation varies based upon many factors, including the amount of transactions being hedged. Other factors that could affect the effectiveness of the Company’s hedging activities include accuracy of sales forecasts, volatility of currency markets and the availability of hedging instruments. Since the hedging activities are designed to reduce volatility, they not only reduce the negative impact of a stronger U.S. dollar but also reduce the positive impact of a weaker U.S. dollar. The Company’s future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which the Company conducts business. Foreign currency fluctuations can also affect the prices at which products are sold in the Company’s international markets. The Company therefore adjusts its pricing based in part upon fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Significant unanticipated changes in foreign currency exchange rates make it more difficult for the Company to manage pricing in its international markets. If the Company is unable to adjust its pricing in a timely manner to counteract the effects of foreign currency fluctuations, the Company’s pricing may not be competitive in the marketplace and the Company’s financial results in its international markets could be adversely affected. 11 The Company’s obligations and certain financial covenants contained under the existing credit facility expose it to risks that could adversely affect its business, operating results and financial condition. The Company’s primary credit facility is comprised of a $230.0 million secured asset-based revolving credit facility (as amended, the “ABL Facility”), comprised of a $158.3 million U.S. facility, a $31.7 million Canadian facility and a $40.0 million United Kingdom facility, in each case subject to borrowing base availability under the applicable facility. Borrowing under the U.K. facility will be permitted upon satisfaction of customary conditions relating to delivery of U.K. collateral security documents. The amounts outstanding under the ABL Facility are secured by certain assets, including inventory and accounts receivable, of the Company’s U.S., Canadian and U.K. legal entities. The Company’s borrowing is limited by the “availability ratio,” which is expressed as a percentage, of (a) the average daily availability under the ABL Facility to (b) the sum of the Canadian, the U.K. and the U.S. borrowing bases, as adjusted. All applicable margins will be permanently reduced by 0.25% if EBITDA, as defined in the ABL Facility, meets or exceeds $25.0 million over any trailing twelve-month period, and will be permanently reduced by an additional 0.25% if EBITDA meets or exceeds $50.0 million over any trailing twelve-month period. The ABL Facility includes certain restrictions including, among other things, restrictions on the incurrence of additional debt, liens, dividends and other restricted payments, asset sales, investments, mergers, acquisitions and affiliate transactions. Additionally, the Company will be subject to compliance with a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant during, and continuing 30 days after, any period in which the Company’s borrowing base availability falls below $25.0 million. If the Company experiences a decline in revenues or adjusted EBITDA, the Company may have difficulty paying interest and principal amounts due on our ABL Facility or other indebtedness and meeting certain of the financial covenants contained in the ABL Facility. If the Company is unable to make required payments under the ABL Facility, or if the Company fails to comply with the various covenants and other requirements of the ABL Facility or other indebtedness, the Company would be in default thereunder, which would permit the holders of the indebtedness to accelerate the maturity thereof. Any default under the ABL Facility or other indebtedness could have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, business, operating results and financial condition and ability to make any dividend or other payments on the Company’s capital stock. If the Company is unable to successfully manage the frequent introduction of new products that satisfy changing consumer preferences, it could adversely impact its financial performance and prospects for future growth. The Company’s main products, like those of its competitors, generally have life cycles of two years or less, with sales occurring at a much higher rate in the first year than in the second. Factors driving these short product life cycles include the rapid introduction of competitive products and quickly changing consumer preferences. In this marketplace, a substantial portion of the Company’s annual revenues is generated each year by products that are in their first year of life. These marketplace conditions raise a number of issues that the Company must successfully manage. For example, the Company must properly anticipate consumer preferences and design products that meet those preferences while also complying with significant restrictions imposed by the Rules of Golf (see further discussion of the Rules of Golf below) or its new products will not achieve sufficient market success to compensate for the usual decline in sales experienced by products already in the market. Second, the Company’s research and development and supply chain groups face constant pressures to design, develop, source and supply new products that perform better than their predecessors—many of which incorporate new or otherwise untested technology, suppliers or inputs. Third, for new products to generate equivalent or greater revenues than their predecessors, they must either maintain the same or higher sales levels with the same or higher pricing, or exceed the performance of their predecessors in one or both of those areas. Fourth, the relatively short window of opportunity for launching and selling new products requires great precision in forecasting demand and assuring that supplies are ready and delivered during the critical selling periods. Finally, the rapid changeover in products creates a need to monitor and manage the closeout of older products both at retail and in the Company’s own 12 inventory. Should the Company not successfully manage all of the risks associated with this rapidly moving marketplace, the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be significantly adversely affected. A reduction in the number of rounds of golf played or in the number of golf participants could adversely affect the Company’s sales. The Company generates substantially all of its revenues from the sale of golf-related products, including golf clubs, golf balls and golf accessories. The demand for golf-related products in general, and golf balls in particular, is directly related to the number of golf participants and the number of rounds of golf being played by these participants. If golf participation or the number of rounds of golf played decreases, sales of the Company’s products may be adversely affected. In the future, the overall dollar volume of the market for golf-related products may not grow or may decline. In addition, the demand for golf products is also directly related to the popularity of magazines, cable channels and other media dedicated to golf, television coverage of golf tournaments and attendance at golf events. The Company depends on the exposure of its products through advertising and the media or at golf tournaments and events. Any significant reduction in television coverage of, or attendance at, golf tournaments and events or any significant reduction in the popularity of golf magazines or golf channels, could reduce the visibility of the Company’s brand and could adversely affect the Company’s sales. The Company may have limited opportunities for future growth in sales of golf clubs and golf balls. In order for the Company to significantly grow its sales of golf clubs or golf balls, the Company must either increase its share of the market for golf clubs or balls, or the market for golf clubs or balls must grow. The Company already has a significant share of worldwide sales of golf clubs and golf balls. Therefore, opportunities for additional market share may be limited. The Company also believes that overall dollar volume of the worldwide market for golf equipment sales has declined over the past three years. In the future, the overall dollar volume of worldwide sales of golf clubs or golf balls may not grow or may continue to decline. If the Company inaccurately forecasts demand for its products, it may manufacture either insufficient or excess quantities, which, in either case, could adversely affect its financial performance. The Company plans its manufacturing capacity based upon the forecasted demand for its products. The nature of the Company’s business makes it difficult to quickly adjust its manufacturing capacity if actual demand for its products exceeds or is less than forecasted demand. If actual demand for its products exceeds the forecasted demand, the Company may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of new products in time to fulfill actual demand, which could limit the Company’s sales and adversely affect its financial performance. On the other hand, if actual demand is less than the forecasted demand for its products, the Company could produce excess quantities, resulting in excess inventories and related obsolescence charges that could adversely affect the Company’s financial performance. The Company depends on single source or a limited number of suppliers for some of its products, and the loss of any of these suppliers could harm its business. The Company is dependent on a limited number of suppliers for its clubheads and shafts, some of which are single sourced. Furthermore, some of the Company’s products require specially developed manufacturing techniques and processes which make it difficult to identify and utilize alternative suppliers quickly. In addition, many of the Company’s suppliers are not well capitalized and prolonged unfavorable economic conditions could increase the risk that they will go out of business. If current suppliers are unable to deliver clubheads, shafts or other components, or if the Company is required to transition to other suppliers, the Company could experience significant production delays or disruption to its business. The Company also depends on a single or a limited number of suppliers for the materials it uses to make its golf balls. Many of these materials are customized for 13 the Company. Any delay or interruption in such supplies could have a material adverse impact upon the Company’s golf ball business. If the Company did experience any such delays or interruptions, the Company may not be able to find adequate alternative suppliers at a reasonable cost or without significant disruption to its business. A significant disruption in the operations of the Company’s golf club assembly and golf ball manufacturing and assembly facilities could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s sales, profitability and results of operations. A significant amount of the Company’s golf club products are assembled at the Company’s facilities in Monterey, Mexico and a moderate amount of the Company’s golf ball products are manufactured at its facilities in Chicopee, Massachusetts. Both golf club and golf balls are shipped from third-party logistics facilities in Dallas, Texas and Toronto, Canada. A significant disruption at any of the Company’s golf club or golf ball manufacturing facilities or at the third-party logistics sites could adversely affect the Company’s sales, profitability and results of operations. If the Company is unable to obtain at reasonable costs materials or electricity necessary for the manufacture of its products, its business could be adversely affected. The Company’s size has made it a large consumer of certain materials, including steel, titanium alloys, carbon fiber and rubber. The Company does not produce these materials itself, and must rely on its ability to obtain adequate supplies in the world marketplace in competition with other users of such materials. In the future, the Company may not be able to obtain its requirements for such materials at a reasonable price or at all. An interruption in the supply of the materials used by the Company or a significant change in costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s golf club and golf ball manufacturing facilities use, among other resources, significant quantities of electricity to operate. An interruption in the supply of electricity or a significant increase in the cost of electricity could have a significant adverse effect upon the Company’s results of operations. A disruption in the service or a significant increase in the cost of the Company’s primary delivery and shipping services for its products and component parts could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company uses United Parcel Service (“UPS”) for substantially all ground shipments of products to its U.S. customers. The Company uses air carriers and ocean shipping services for most of its international shipments of products. Furthermore, many of the components the Company uses to build its golf clubs, including clubheads and shafts, are shipped to the Company via air carrier and ship services. The Company’s inbound and outbound shipments are particularly dependent upon air carrier facilities at Los Angeles International Airport and ship service facilities at the Port of Los Angeles (Long Beach). If there is any significant interruption in service by such providers or at other significant airports or shipping ports, the Company may be unable to engage alternative suppliers or to receive or ship goods through alternate sites in order to deliver its products or components in a timely and cost-efficient manner. As a result, the Company could experience manufacturing delays, increased manufacturing and shipping costs, and lost sales as a result of missed delivery deadlines and product demand cycles. Any significant interruption in UPS services, air carrier services or ship services could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business. Furthermore, if the cost of delivery or shipping services were to increase significantly and the additional costs could not be covered by product pricing, the Company’s operating results could be significantly adversely affected. 14 The Company faces intense competition in each of its markets and if it is unable to maintain a competitive advantage, loss of market share, revenue, or profitability may result. Golf Clubs. The golf club business is highly competitive, and is served by a number of well-established and well-financed companies with recognized brand names. New product introductions, price reductions, consignment sales, extended payment terms, “closeouts,” including closeouts of products that were recently commercially successful, and significant tour and advertising spending by competitors continue to generate intense market competition. Furthermore, continued downward pressure on pricing in the market for new clubs could have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s pre-owned club business as the gap narrows between the cost of a new club and a pre-owned club. Successful marketing activities, discounted pricing, consignment sales, extended payment terms or new product introductions by competitors could negatively impact the Company’s future sales. Golf Balls. The golf ball business is also highly competitive. There are a number of well-established and well-financed competitors, including one competitor with an estimated U.S. market share of over 50%. As the Company’s competitors continue to incur significant costs in the areas of advertising, tour and other promotional support, the Company will continue to incur significant expenses in both tour and advertising support and product development. Unless there is a change in competitive conditions, these competitive pressures and increased costs will continue to adversely affect the profitability of the Company’s golf ball business. Accessories. The Company’s accessories include golf bags, golf gloves, golf footwear, golf apparel and other items. The Company faces significant competition in every region with respect to each of these product categories. In most cases, the Company is not the market leader with respect to its accessory markets. The Company’s golf ball business has a concentrated customer base. The loss of one or more of the Company’s top customers could have a significant negative impact on this business. On a consolidated basis, no one customer that distributes golf clubs or golf balls in the United States accounted for more than 6% of the Company’s consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009. On a segment basis, the golf ball customer base is much more concentrated than the golf club customer base. In 2011, the top five golf ball customers accounted for approximately 22% of the Company’s total consolidated golf ball sales. A loss of one or more of these customers could have a significant adverse effect upon the Company’s golf ball sales. International political instability and terrorist activities may decrease demand for the Company’s products and disrupt its business. Terrorist activities and armed conflicts could have an adverse effect upon the United States or worldwide economy and could cause decreased demand for the Company’s products as consumers’ attention and interest are diverted from golf and become focused on issues relating to these events. If such events disrupt domestic or international air, ground or sea shipments, or the operation of the Company’s manufacturing facilities, the Company’s ability to obtain the materials necessary to manufacture its products and to deliver customer orders would be harmed, which would have a significant adverse affect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Such events can negatively impact tourism, which could adversely affect the Company’s sales to retailers at resorts and other vacation destinations. In addition, the occurrence of political instability and/or terrorist activities generally restricts travel to and from the affected areas, making it more difficult in general to manage the company’s international operations. The Company’s business could be harmed by the occurrence of natural disasters or pandemic diseases. The occurrence of a natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, flood or hurricane, or the outbreak of a pandemic disease, could significantly adversely affect the Company’s business. A natural disaster or a pandemic disease could significantly adversely affect both the demand for the Company’s products as well as the supply of 15 the components used to make the Company’s products. Demand for golf products also could be negatively affected as consumers in the affected regions restrict their recreational activities and as tourism to those areas declines. If the Company’s suppliers experienced a significant disruption in their business as a result of a natural disaster or pandemic disease, the Company’s ability to obtain the necessary components to make its products could be significantly adversely affected. In addition, the occurrence of a natural disaster or the outbreak of a pandemic disease generally restricts the travel to and from the affected areas, making it more difficult in general to manage the Company’s international operations. The Company’s business and operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could result in fluctuations in its operating results and stock price. The Company’s business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. The Company’s first quarter sales generally represent the Company’s sell-in to the golf retail channel of its golf club products for the new golf season. The Company’s second and third quarter sales generally represent reorder business for golf clubs. Sales of golf clubs during the second and third quarters are significantly affected not only by the sell-through of the Company’s products that were sold into the channel during the first quarter but also by the sell-through of products by the Company’s competitors. Retailers are sometimes reluctant to reorder the Company’s products in significant quantities when they already have excess inventory of products of the Company or its competitors. The Company’s sales of golf balls are generally associated with the level of rounds played in the areas where the Company’s products are sold. Therefore, golf ball sales tend to be greater in the second and third quarters, when the weather is good in most of the Company’s key markets and rounds played are up. Golf ball sales are also stimulated by product introductions as the retail channel takes on initial supplies. Like golf clubs, reorders of golf balls depend on the rate of sell-through. The Company’s sales during the fourth quarter are generally significantly less than the other quarters because in many of the Company’s principal markets fewer people are playing golf during that time of year due to cold weather. Furthermore, the Company generally announces its new product line in the fourth quarter to allow retailers to plan for the new golf season. Such early announcements of new products could cause golfers, and therefore the Company’s customers, to defer purchasing additional golf equipment until the Company’s new products are available. Such deferments could have a material adverse effect upon sales of the Company’s current products or result in closeout sales at reduced prices. The seasonality of the Company’s business could exacerbate the adverse effects of unusual or severe weather conditions on the Company’s business. Due to the seasonality of the Company’s business, the Company’s business can be significantly adversely affected by unusual or severe weather conditions. Unfavorable weather conditions generally result in fewer golf rounds played, which generally results in reduced demand for all golf products, and in particular, golf balls. Furthermore, catastrophic storms can negatively affect golf rounds played both during the storms and afterward, as storm damaged golf courses are repaired and golfers focus on repairing the damage to their homes, businesses and communities. Consequently, sustained adverse weather conditions, especially during the warm weather months, could materially affect the Company’s sales. Goodwill and intangible assets represent a significant portion of our total assets and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations and shareholders’ equity. The Company’s goodwill and intangible assets consist of goodwill from acquisitions, trade names, trademarks, service marks, trade dress, patents, and other intangible assets. Accounting rules require that the Company’s goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives be evaluated for impairment at least annually. In addition, accounting rules require that the Company’s goodwill and intangible assets, including intangible assets with definite lives, be evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. Such indicators include a sustained decline in the Company’s stock price or market capitalization, adverse changes in economic or market conditions or prospects, and changes in the Company’s operations. 16 An asset is considered to be impaired when its carrying value exceeds its fair value. The Company determines the fair value of an asset based upon the discounted cash flows expected to be realized from the use and ultimate disposition of the asset. If in conducting an impairment evaluation the Company were to determine that the carrying value of an asset exceeded its fair value, the Company would be required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the asset. If a significant amount of the Company’s goodwill and intangible assets were deemed to be impaired, the Company’s results of operations and shareholders’ equity would be significantly adversely affected. The Company’s ability to utilize all or a portion of its U.S. deferred tax assets may be limited significantly if the Company experiences an “ownership change.” The Company has a significant amount of U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets, which include net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) and other losses. The Company’s ability to utilize the losses to offset future taxable income may be limited significantly if the Company were to experience an “ownership change” as defined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative increase in ownership of the Company’s stock by “5-percent shareholders” (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. The determination of whether an ownership change has occurred for purposes of Section 382 is complex and requires significant judgment. The extent to which the Company’s ability to utilize the losses is limited as a result of such an ownership change depends on many variables, including the value of the Company’s stock at the time of the ownership change. Although the Company’s ownership has changed significantly during the three-year period ended December 31, 2011 (due in significant part to the Company’s June 2009 preferred stock offering), the Company does not believe there has been a cumulative increase in ownership in excess of 50 percentage points during that period. The Company continues to monitor changes in ownership. If such a cumulative increase did occur in any three year period and the Company were limited in the amount of losses it could use to offset taxable income, the Company’s results of operations and cash flows would be adversely impacted. Changes in equipment standards under applicable Rules of Golf could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company seeks to have its new golf club and golf ball products satisfy the standards published by the USGA and the R&A in the Rules of Golf because these standards are generally followed by golfers, both professional and amateur, within their respective jurisdictions. The USGA publishes rules that are generally followed in the United States, Canada and Mexico, and the R&A publishes rules that are generally followed in most other countries throughout the world. However, the Rules of Golf as published by the R&A and the USGA are virtually the same, and are intended to be so pursuant to a Joint Statement of Principles issued in 2001. In the future, existing USGA and/or R&A standards may be altered in ways that adversely affect the sales of the Company’s current or future products. If a change in rules were adopted and caused one or more of the Company’s current or future products to be nonconforming, the Company’s sales of such products would be adversely affected. The Company’s sales could decline if professional golfers do not endorse or use the Company’s products. The Company establishes relationships with professional golfers in order to evaluate and promote Callaway Golf, Odyssey and Top-Flite branded products. The Company has entered into endorsement arrangements with members of the various professional tours, including the Champions Tour, the PGA Tour, the LPGA Tour, the PGA European Tour, the Japan Golf Tour and the Nationwide Tour. While most professional golfers fulfill their contractual obligations, some have been known to stop using a sponsor’s products despite contractual commitments. If certain of the Company’s professional endorsers were to stop using the Company’s products contrary to their endorsement agreements, the Company’s business could be adversely affected in a material way by the negative publicity or lack of endorsement. 17 The Company believes that professional usage of its golf clubs and golf balls contributes to retail sales. The Company therefore spends a significant amount of money to secure professional usage of its products. Many other companies, however, also aggressively seek the patronage of these professionals and offer many inducements, including significant cash incentives and specially designed products. There is a great deal of competition to secure the representation of tour professionals. As a result, it is expensive to attract and retain such tour professionals. The inducements offered by other companies could result in a decrease in usage of the Company’s products by professional golfers or limit the Company’s ability to attract other tour professionals. A decline in the level of professional usage of the Company’s products could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s sales and business. Failure to adequately enforce the Company’s intellectual property rights could adversely affect its business. The golf club industry, in general, has been characterized by widespread imitation of popular club designs. The Company has an active program of monitoring, investigating and enforcing its proprietary rights against companies and individuals who market or manufacture counterfeits and “knockoff” products. The Company asserts its rights against infringers of its copyrights, patents, trademarks, and trade dress. However, these efforts may not be successful in reducing sales of golf products by these infringers. Additionally, other golf club manufacturers may be able to produce successful golf clubs which imitate the Company’s designs without infringing any of the Company’s copyrights, patents, trademarks, or trade dress. The failure to prevent or limit such infringers or imitators could adversely affect the Company’s reputation and sales. The Company may become subject to intellectual property suits that could cause it to incur significant costs or pay significant damages or that could prohibit it from selling its products. The Company’s competitors also seek to obtain patent, trademark, copyright or other protection of their proprietary rights and designs for golf clubs and golf balls. From time to time, third parties have claimed or may claim in the future that the Company’s products infringe upon their proprietary rights. The Company evaluates any such claims and, where appropriate, has obtained or sought to obtain licenses or other business arrangements. To date, there have been no significant interruptions in the Company’s business as a result of any claims of infringement. However, in the future, intellectual property claims could force the Company to alter its existing products or withdraw them from the market or could delay the introduction of new products. Various patents have been issued to the Company’s competitors in the golf industry and these competitors may assert that the Company’s golf products infringe their patent or other proprietary rights. If the Company’s golf products are found to infringe third-party intellectual property rights, the Company may be unable to obtain a license to use such technology, and it could incur substantial costs to redesign its products or to defend legal actions. The Company’s brands may be damaged by the actions of its licensees. The Company licenses its trademarks to third-party licensees who produce, market and sell their products bearing the Company’s trademarks. The Company chooses its licensees carefully and imposes upon such licensees various restrictions on the products, and on the manner, on which such trademarks may be used. In addition, the Company requires its licensees to abide by certain standards of conduct and the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they do business. However, if a licensee fails to adhere to these requirements, the Company’s brands could be damaged. The Company’s brands could also be damaged if a licensee becomes insolvent or by any negative publicity concerning a licensee or if the licensee does not maintain good relationships with its customers or consumers, many of which are also the Company’s customers and consumers. Sales of the Company’s products by unauthorized retailers or distributors could adversely affect the Company’s authorized distribution channels and harm the Company’s reputation. Some of the Company’s products find their way to unauthorized outlets or distribution channels. This “gray market” for the Company’s products can undermine authorized retailers and foreign wholesale distributors who promote and support the Company’s products, and can injure the Company’s image in the minds of its customers 18 and consumers. On the other hand, stopping such commerce could result in a potential decrease in sales to those customers who are selling the Company’s products to unauthorized distributors or an increase in sales returns over historical levels. While the Company has taken some lawful steps to limit commerce of its products in the “gray market” in both the United States and abroad, it has not stopped such commerce. The Company has significant international operations and is exposed to risks associated with doing business globally. The Company’s management believes that controlling the distribution of its products in certain major markets in the world has been and will be an element in the future growth and success of the Company. The Company sells and distributes its products directly in many key international markets in Europe, Asia, North America and elsewhere around the world. These activities have resulted and will continue to result in investments in inventory, accounts receivable, employees, corporate infrastructure and facilities. In addition, there are a limited number of suppliers of golf club components in the United States, and the Company has increasingly become more reliant on suppliers and vendors located outside of the United States. The operation of foreign distribution in the Company’s international markets, as well as the management of relationships with international suppliers and vendors, will continue to require the dedication of management and other Company resources. The Company manufactures most of its products outside of the United States. As a result of this international business, the Company is exposed to increased risks inherent in conducting business outside of the United States. In addition to foreign currency risks, these risks include: • Increased difficulty in protecting the Company’s intellectual property rights and trade secrets; • Unexpected government action or changes in legal or regulatory requirements; • Social, economic or political instability; • The effects of any anti-American sentiments on the Company’s brands or sales of the Company’s products; • Increased difficulty in ensuring compliance by employees, agents and contractors with the Company’s policies as well as with the laws of multiple jurisdictions, including but not limited to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, local international environmental, health and safety laws, and increasingly complex regulations relating to the conduct of international commerce; • Increased difficulty in controlling and monitoring foreign operations from the United States, including increased difficulty in identifying and recruiting qualified personnel for its foreign operations; and • Increased exposure to interruptions in air carrier or ship services. Any significant adverse change in circumstances or conditions could have a significant adverse effect upon the Company’s operations, financial performance and condition. Changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, the outcome of income tax audits in various jurisdictions around the world, and any repatriation of non-US earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. We regularly assess all of these matters to determine the adequacy of our tax provision, which is subject to significant discretion. 19 The Company relies on increasingly complex information systems for management of its manufacturing, distribution, sales and other functions. If the Company’s information systems fail to perform these functions adequately or if the Company experiences an interruption in their operation, including a breach in cyber security, its business and results of operations could suffer. All of the Company’s major operations, including manufacturing, distribution, sales and accounting, are dependent upon the Company’s complex information systems. The Company’s information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • Earthquake, fire, flood, hurricane and other natural disasters; • Power loss, computer systems failure, Internet and telecommunications or data network failure; and • Hackers, computer viruses, software bugs or glitches. Any damage or significant disruption in the operation of such systems or the failure of the Company’s information systems to perform as expected could disrupt the Company’s business, result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess inventory and product shortages and otherwise adversely affect the Company’s operations, financial performance and condition. Unauthorized access to, or accidental disclosure of, consumer personally-identifiable information that the Company collects through its websites may result in significant expenses and negatively impact our reputation and business. There is growing concern over the security of personal information transmitted over the Internet, consumer identity theft and user privacy. While the Company has implemented security measures, the Company’s computer systems may be susceptible to electronic or physical computer break-ins, viruses and other disruptions and security breaches. Any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally-identifiable information regarding visitors to the Company’s websites or otherwise, whether through a breach of the Company’s network by an unauthorized party, employee theft, misuse or error or otherwise, could harm the Company’s reputation, impair the Company’s ability to attract website visitors, or subject the Company to claims or litigation arising from damages suffered by consumers, and adversely affect the Company’s operations, financial performance and condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 