ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors relating to the Company, its business and management should carefully be considered in evaluating the Company and its prospects. Organizational restructuring. The Company has undergone significant organizational restructuring and it faces substantial operational challenges. We are in the process of evaluating our future strategic direction. We have been forced to take drastic actions to reduce operating costs and preserve our remaining cash. For example, in March 2003 we effected a reduction in force that reduced our workforce from approximately 125 to 70 employees. Subsequent actions further reduced the number of employees to approximately 31. The elimination of certain engineering and other personnel may have a negative effect on our future revenues and growth prospects and our ability to support new product initiatives and generate customer demand. Going Concern Modification. The reports of our independent registered public accounting firms contained in the Report on Form 10-K for the years ended 2001 through and including 2005 contain a going concern modification. Recent Operating Losses. We have incurred operating losses in our last six fiscal years. There can be no assurance 13 that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitable operations in the future. Tax Implications of Bankruptcy. Certain tax implications of our bankruptcy and reorganization may increase our tax liability. Certain U.S. tax attributes of Boundless, including net operating loss carryovers, or NOLs, have been reduced or eliminated as a consequence of our bankruptcy and reorganization. The elimination or reduction of NOLs and such other tax attributes may increase the amount of tax payable by Boundless following its reorganization as compared with the amount of tax payable had no such reduction been required. Debt Structure and Liquidity. As of December 31, 2005, we had a tangible net worth deficit of $15,006,107 and total liabilities of $17,009,717. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, we had a working capital deficit of $9,568 excluding $14,586,204 of liabilities subject to compromise in the bankruptcy. Strategy. Industry-wide sales of general purpose text terminals have been declining over the past years. Approximately 90% of the Company's sales for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 were of general purpose text terminals. Recognizing the impact of this decline on our profitability and liquidity, we are advancing the strategies discussed above. There can be no assurance our strategy will be successful. Dependence Upon Key Personnel. Our success will depend upon our key management, sales and technical personnel. We do not have employment contracts with any of our employees. In addition, we believe that, to succeed in the future, it will be required to continue to attract, retain and motivate additional skilled executive and technical sales and engineering employees who are in short supply because of great demand throughout the industry for their services. The loss of any of our existing key personnel or the inability to attract and retain key employees in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business. New Products and Technological Change. The computer industry is characterized by a rapid rate of product improvement, technological change and product obsolescence. Inventory management is critical to decreasing the risk of being adversely affected by obsolescence and there is no assurance that our inventory management and flexible manufacturing systems will adequately protect against this risk. Dependence Upon Suppliers; Trade Terms; Shortages of Subassemblies and Components. We purchase subassemblies and components for our products almost entirely from more than 40 domestic and Far East suppliers. As a result of our financial condition, the majority of our purchases are transacted under "cash-in-advance" terms. Prior to our reorganization, certain important suppliers altered a number of ordinary trade terms, including shortening the length of time required to pay for goods and services and the imposition of restrictive credit requirements. We cannot assure that our suppliers will not impose further restrictive pricing and trade terms and policies in the future. Such terms could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. While there are at least two qualified suppliers for the subassemblies and components that are made to our specifications, we generally source such items from a single supplier so that we can take advantage of volume discounts and more easily ensure quality control. We estimate that the lead-time required before an alternate supplier can begin providing the necessary subassembly or component would generally be between six to ten weeks. The disruption of our business during such period of lead-time could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Purchases from Radiance Electronics, Ansen Corporation and Video Display Corporation accounted for approximately 39%, 18% and 9%, respectively, of the dollar amount of the Company's total purchases of subassemblies and components in 2005. Our adoption of "fresh-start" accounting may make evaluating our financial position and results of operations, as compared to prior periods, more difficult. Upon our emergence from bankruptcy pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization we will implement "fresh-start" accounting. In accordance with "fresh-start" accounting, all assets and liabilities will be restated to reflect their respective estimated fair values. As a result, the consolidated financial statements for our reorganized 14 company starting on and going forward from our emergence from bankruptcy will not be comparable to our consolidated financial statements for the periods prior to our emergence. The change in our accounting principles may make it more difficult to compare our operations to prior periods. Fluctuations in Quarterly Results. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors, including: (i) timing of new product introductions by us and our competitors; (ii) changes in the mix of products sold; (iii) availability and pricing of subassemblies and components from third parties; (iv) timing of orders; (v) difficulty in maintaining margins; and (vi) changes in pricing policies by us, our competitors or suppliers. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 