ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in any of the company’s securities is necessarily highly speculative in nature, involves a high degree of risk and illiquidity and should be purchased only by persons who can afford to lose the entire amount invested in the common stock. Before purchasing any securities of the Company, you should carefully consider the following factors relating to our business and prospects. You should pay particular attention to the fact that we conduct all of our operations in China and are governed by a legal and regulatory environment that in some respects differs significantly from the environment that may prevail in the U.S. and other countries. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results will suffer, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our auditors have expressed in their report on our financial statements substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our auditors have included an explanatory paragraph in their report dated as of March 30, 2012 on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011, indicating that there is substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company has incurred significant losses during 2011 and 2010 and has relied on debt and equity financings to fund their operations. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Management’s plans regarding these matters are also described in Note 3. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. If we are in fact unable to continue as a going concern, our shareholders may lose their entire investment in our Company. Expansion of our business may put added pressure on our management and operational infrastructure impeding our ability to meet any potential increased demand for our services and possibly hurting our future operating results. Our business plan is to significantly grow our operations to meet anticipated growth in demand for the services that we offer, and by the introduction of new goods or services. Growth in our businesses may place a significant strain on our personnel, management, financial systems and other resources. The evolution of our business also presents numerous risks and challenges, including: ● our ability to successfully and rapidly expand sales to potential new distributors in response to potentially increasing demand; ● the costs associated with such growth, which are difficult to quantify, but could be significant; and ● rapid technological change. To accommodate any such growth and compete effectively, we may need to obtain additional funding to improve information systems, procedures and controls and expand, train, motivate and manage our employees, and such funding may not be available in sufficient quantities, if at all. If we are not able to manage these activities and implement these strategies successfully to expand to meet any increased demand, our operating results could suffer. In order to comply with PRC regulatory requirements, we operate our businesses through companies with which we have contractual relationships but in which we do not have controlling ownership. If the PRC government determines that our agreements with these companies are not in compliance with applicable regulations, our business in the PRC could be materially adversely affected. We do not have direct or indirect equity ownership of our VIEs, which collectively operate all our businesses in China. At the same time, however, we have entered into contractual arrangements with each of our VIEs and their individual owners pursuant to which we received an economic interest in, and exert a controlling influence over each of the VIEs, in a manner substantially similar to a controlling equity interest. Although we believe that our current business operations are in compliance with the current laws in China, we cannot be sure that the PRC government would view our operating arrangements to be in compliance with PRC regulations that may be adopted in the future. If we are determined not to be in compliance, the PRC government could levy fines, revoke our business and operating licenses, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, require us to restructure our business, corporate structure or operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, impose restrictions on our business operations or on our customers, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. As a result, our business in the PRC could be materially adversely affected. We rely on contractual arrangements with our VIEs for our operations, which may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. Our operations and financial results are dependent on our VIEs in which we have no equity ownership interest and must rely on contractual arrangements to control and operate the businesses of each of our VIEs. These contractual arrangements are not as effective in providing control over the VIEs as direct ownership. For example, one of the VIEs may be unwilling or unable to perform their contractual obligations under our commercial agreements. Consequently, we would not be able to conduct our operations in the manner currently planned. In addition, any of the VIEs may seek to renew their agreements on terms that are disadvantageous to us. Although we have entered into a series of agreements that provide us with substantial ability to control the VIEs, we may not succeed in enforcing our rights under them insofar as our contractual rights and legal remedies under PRC law are inadequate. In addition, if we are unable to renew these agreements on favorable terms when these agreements expire or to enter into similar agreements with other parties, our business may not be able to operate or expand, and our operating expenses may significantly increase. 10 Table of Contents Our arrangements with our VIEs and their respective shareholders may be subject to a transfer pricing adjustment by the PRC tax authorities which could have an adverse effect on our income and expenses. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that our contracts with our VIEs and their respective shareholders were not entered into based on arm’s length negotiations. Although our contractual arrangements are similar to other companies conducting similar operations in China, if the PRC tax authorities determine that these contracts were not entered into on an arm’s length basis, they may adjust our income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. Such an adjustment may require that we pay additional PRC taxes plus applicable penalties and interest, if any. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to retain our existing key employees and to add and retain senior officers to our management. We depend on the services of our existing key employees, in particular, Mr. Shane McMahon, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Marc Urbach, our President and Chief Financial Officer, and Mr. Weicheng Liu, a Senior Executive Officer. Our success will largely depend on our ability to retain these key employees and to attract and retain qualified senior and middle level managers to our management team. We have recruited executives and management in China to assist in our ability to manage the business and to recruit and oversee employees. While we believe we offer compensation packages that are consistent with market practice, we cannot be certain that we will be able to hire and retain sufficient personnel to support our business. In addition, severe capital constraints have limited our ability to attract specialized personnel. Moreover, our budget limitations will restrict our ability to hire qualified personnel. The loss of any of our key employees would significantly harm our business. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. We may be unable to compete successfully against new entrants and established internet industry competitors. The Chinese market for internet content and services is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. Barriers to entry are relatively minimal, and current and new competitors can launch new websites at a relatively low cost. Many companies offer competitive products or services including Chinese language-based Web search, retrieval and navigation services, wireless value-added services, online games and extensive Chinese language content, informational and community features and e-mail. In addition, as a consequence of China joining the World Trade Organization, the Chinese government has partially lifted restrictions on foreign-invested enterprises so that foreign investors may hold in the aggregate up to approximately 51% of the total equity ownership in any value-added telecommunications business, including an internet business in China. Currently, our competition comes from standard “telephone” internet providers. Any of our present or future competitors may offer products and services that provide significant performance, price, creativity or other advantages over those offered by us and, therefore, achieve greater market acceptance than ours. Because many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential competitors, have longer operating histories in the internet market, greater name and brand recognition, better connections with the Chinese government, larger customer bases and databases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have, we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. Any increased competition could reduce page views, make it difficult for us to attract and retain users, reduce or eliminate our market share, lower our profit margins and reduce our revenues. Unexpected network interruption caused by system failures may reduce user base and harm our reputation. Both the continual and foremost accessibility of internet service websites and the performance and reliability of our technical infrastructure are critical to our reputation and the ability of our internet services to attract and retain users and advertisers. Any system failure or performance inadequacy that causes interruptions or delays in the availability of our services or increases the response time of our services could reduce user satisfaction and traffic, which would reduce the internet service appeal to users of “high speed” internet usage. As the number of users and traffic increase, we cannot assure you that we will be able to scale our systems proportionately. In addition, any system failures and electrical outages could materially and adversely impact our business. Computer viruses may cause delays or interruptions on our systems and may reduce our customer base and harm our reputation. Computer viruses may cause delays or other service interruptions on our systems. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect our internet service against the threat of such computer viruses and to alleviate any problems. Moreover, if a computer virus affecting our system is highly publicized, our reputation could be materially damaged and customers may cancel our service. 11 Table of Contents If our providers of bandwidth and server custody service fail to provide these services, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on affiliates of Jinan Parent to provide us with bandwidth and server custody service for internet users. If Jinan Parent or their affiliates fail to provide such services or raise prices for their services, we may not be able to find a reliable and cost-effective substitute provider on a timely basis or at all. If this happens, our business could be adversely affected. We may be unable to compete successfully against new entrants and established film and media industry competitors. The Chinese market for film and media content and services is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. Barriers to entry may be relatively minimal, and current and new competitors may be able to provide film and media content at a lower cost. Although the Chinese government continues to improve its efforts to enforce intellectual property protection, pirated film and media content continues to be prevalent in China, which may reduce our potential profits. In addition, other companies offer competitive products or services including Chinese language content. Because many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential competitors, have longer operating histories in the film and media market, greater name and brand recognition, better connections with the Chinese government, larger customer bases and libraries and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have, we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. Any increased competition could reduce our subscribers, make it difficult for us to attract and retain subscribers, reduce or eliminate our market share, lower our profit margins and reduce our revenues. Our PPV and VOD business depends on third parties to provide the programming that we offer to subscribers in China, and if we are unable to secure access to this programming, we may be unable to attract subscribers. Our PPV and VOD business depends on third parties to provide us with programming content which we would distribute to our subscribers in China. We continue to negotiate with various U.S. entertainment studios to secure access to additional programming content, however, we may not be able to obtain access to additional programming content on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to successfully negotiate agreements for access to more high quality programming content, we may not be able to attract many subscribers for our service and our operating results would be negatively affected. If we are unable to attract many subscribers for our PPV and VOD services, or are unable to successfully negotiate additional agreements with cable television providers in China to deliver our programming content, our financial performance will be adversely affected. At present, there is a limited market for PPV and VOD services in China, and there is no guarantee that a market will develop or that we will be able to attract subscribers to purchase our services. In addition, we rely on cable television providers to deliver our programming content to subscribers and we may not be able to negotiate additional agreements to deliver our programming content on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to attract many subscribers or successfully negotiate additional delivery agreements with cable television providers, our financial performance will be adversely affected. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 “SOX 404”, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 10-K. Under current law, we were subject to these requirements beginning with our annual report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. Our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures have been ineffective, and failure to improve them could lead to future errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or untimely filings, which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, and a decline in our stock price. We are constantly striving to establish and improve our business management and internal control over financial reporting to forecast, budget and allocate our funds. However, as a PRC company that has become a US public company, we face difficulties in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to achieve and maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting in a short period of time. In connection with the preparation and audit of our 2011 financial statements and notes, we were informed by our auditor, UHY LLP, or UHY, of certain accounting and reporting deficiencies in our internal controls that UHY considered to be material weaknesses. These deficiencies related to our financial procedures. We have devoted significant resources since 2010 to upgrade our internal controls. We have placed key accounting personnel at each of our entities, engaged an outside consulting company to perform independent Sarbanes Oxley procedures and testing, and continue to upgrade all internal control-related processes. Because of the above-referenced deficiencies and weaknesses in our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to comply with the SOX 404 internal controls requirements. As a result of any deficiencies and weaknesses, we may experience difficulty in collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records, and instituting business practices that meet international standards, failure of which may prevent us from accurately reporting our financial results or detecting and preventing fraud. 12 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Changes in China's political or economic situation could harm us and our operating results. Economic reforms adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the country, but the government could change these economic reforms or any of the legal systems at any time. This could either benefit or damage our operations and profitability. Some of the things that could have this effect are: ● Level of government involvement in the economy; ● Control of foreign exchange; ● Methods of allocating resources; ● Balance of payments position; ● International trade restrictions; and ● International conflict. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in many ways. For example, state-owned enterprises still constitute a large portion of the Chinese economy, and weak corporate governance and the lack of a flexible currency exchange policy still prevail in China. As a result of these differences, we may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy was similar to those of the OECD member countries. Increased government regulation of the telecommunications and internet industries in China may result in the Chinese government requiring us to obtain additional licenses or other governmental approvals to conduct our business which, if unattainable, may restrict our operations. The telecommunications industry is highly regulated by the Chinese government, the main relevant government authority being the MII. Prior to China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, the Chinese government generally prohibited foreign investors from taking any equity ownership in or operating any telecommunications business. Internet Content Provider, or ICP, services are classified as telecommunications value-added services and therefore fall within the scope of this prohibition. This prohibition was partially lifted following China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, allowing foreign investors to own interests in Chinese businesses. In addition, foreign and foreign invested enterprises are currently not able to apply for the required licenses for operating cable broadband services in China. We cannot be certain that we will be granted any of the appropriate licenses, permits or clearance that we may need in the future. Moreover, we cannot be certain that any local or national ICP or telecommunications license requirements will not conflict with one another or that any given license will be deemed sufficient by the relevant governmental authorities for the provision of our services. We rely exclusively on contractual arrangements with Jinan Parent and its approvals to operate as an ICP. We believe that our present operations are structured to comply with applicable Chinese law. However, many Chinese regulations are subject to extensive interpretive powers of governmental agencies and commissions. We cannot be certain that the Chinese government will not take action to prohibit or restrict our business activities. We are uncertain as to whether the Chinese government will reclassify our business as a media or retail company, due to our acceptance of fees for internet advertising, online games and wireless value-added and other services as sources of revenues, or as a result of our current corporate structure. Such reclassification could subject us to penalties, fines or significant restrictions on our business. Future changes in Chinese government policies affecting the provision of information services, including the provision of online services, internet access, e-commerce services and online advertising, may impose additional regulatory requirements on us or our service providers or otherwise harm our business. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our subsidiaries in the PRC. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, a series of new PRC laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to evolve rapidly, the interpretations of many laws, regulations, and rules are not always uniform, and enforcement of these laws, regulations, and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to you and us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, all of our executive officers and all of our Directors are residents of China and not of the United States, and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to affect service of process in the United States or to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against our Chinese operations and subsidiaries. 13 Table of Contents You may have difficulty enforcing judgments against us. Most of our assets are located outside of the United States and most of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, some of our Directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and Directors that are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Our counsel as to PRC law has advised us that the recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments are provided for under the PRC Civil Procedures Law. Courts in China may recognize and enforce foreign judgments in accordance with the requirements of the PRC Civil Procedures Law based on treaties between China and the country where the judgment is made or on reciprocity between jurisdictions. China does not have any treaties or other arrangements that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments with the United States. In addition, according to the PRC Civil Procedures Law, courts in the PRC will not enforce a foreign judgment against us or our Directors and officers if they decide that the judgment violates basic principles of PRC law or national sovereignty, security, or the public interest. So it is uncertain whether a PRC court would enforce a judgment rendered by a court in the United States. The PRC government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The PRC government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property, and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and highly fluctuating rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 8.7% and as low as -1.6%. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products and our company. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our sales effectively. The majority of our revenues will be settled in RMB and U.S. dollars, and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of RMB for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. The value of our common stock will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and RMB and between those currencies and other currencies in which our revenues may be denominated. Appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars, as well as earnings from, and the value of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. 14 Table of Contents Since July 2005, the RMB has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currencies. Restrictions under PRC law on our PRC VIEs’ ability to make dividends and other distributions could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could benefit our business, pay dividends to you, and otherwise fund and conduct our business. Substantially all of our revenues are earned by our PRC VIEs. However, PRC regulations restrict the ability of our PRC VIEs to make dividends and other payments to its offshore parent company. PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividends by our PRC VIEs only out of their accumulated after-tax profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our PRC VIEs are also required under PRC laws and regulations to allocate at least 10% of their annual after-tax profits determined in accordance with PRC generally accepted accounting principles to a statutory general reserve fund until the amounts in said fund reaches 50% of our registered capital. Allocations to these statutory reserve funds can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances, or cash dividends. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC VIEs to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. Because Our Assets Are Located In China, Any Dividends Of Proceeds From Liquidation Is Subject To The Approval Of The Relevant Chinese Government Agencies. Our assets are located inside China. Under the laws governing foreign invested enterprises in China, dividends of proceeds from liquidation are allowed but subject to special procedures under the relevant laws and rules. Any dividend of proceeds from liquidation is subject to both the relevant government agency’s approval and supervision as well as the foreign exchange control. This may generate additional risk for our investors in case of liquidation. Failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident stockholders to personal liability, limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiary's ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially adversely affect us. In October 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued the Notice on Relevant Issues in the Foreign Exchange Control over Financing and Return Investment Through Special Purpose Companies by Residents Inside China, generally referred to as Circular 75, which required PRC residents to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or acquiring control over an offshore special purpose company, or SPV, for the purpose of engaging in an equity financing outside of China on the strength of domestic PRC assets originally held by those residents. Internal implementing guidelines issued by SAFE, which became public in June 2007 (known as Notice 106), expanded the reach of Circular 75 by (1) purporting to cover the establishment or acquisition of control by PRC residents of offshore entities which merely acquire “control” over domestic companies or assets, even in the absence of legal ownership; (2) adding requirements relating to the source of the PRC resident’s funds used to establish or acquire the offshore entity; (3) covering the use of existing offshore entities for offshore financings; (4) purporting to cover situations in which an offshore SPV establishes a new subsidiary in China or acquires an unrelated company or unrelated assets in China; and (5) making the domestic affiliate of the SPV responsible for the accuracy of certain documents which must be filed in connection with any such registration, notably, the business plan which describes the overseas financing and the use of proceeds. Amendments to registrations made under Circular 75 are required in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, mergers and acquisitions, equity investment or creation of any security interest in any assets located in China to guarantee offshore obligations, and Notice 106 makes the offshore SPV jointly responsible for these filings. In the case of an SPV which was established, and which acquired a related domestic company or assets, before the implementation date of Circular 75, a retroactive SAFE registration was required to have been completed before March 31, 2006. This date was subsequently extended indefinitely by Notice 106, which also required that the registrant establish that all foreign exchange transactions undertaken by the SPV and its affiliates were in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with the requirements of Circular 75, as applied by SAFE in accordance with Notice 106, may result in fines and other penalties under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Any such failure could also result in the SPV’s affiliates being impeded or prevented from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the SPV, or from engaging in other transfers of funds into or out of China. 15 Table of Contents We have asked our stockholders who are PRC residents, as defined in Circular 75, to register with the relevant branch of SAFE as currently required in connection with their equity interests in us and our acquisitions of equity interests in our PRC subsidiary. However, we cannot provide any assurances that they can obtain the above SAFE registrations required by Circular 75 and Notice 106. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how Circular 75 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries' ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with Circular 75 and Notice 106 by our PRC resident beneficial holders. In addition, such PRC residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by Circular 75 and Notice 106. We also have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect stockholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. A failure by our PRC resident beneficial holders or future PRC resident stockholders to comply with Circular 75 and Notice 106, if SAFE requires it, could subject these PRC resident beneficial holders to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiaries' ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. The implementation of the new PRC employment contract law and increases in the labor costs in China may hurt our business and profitability. We are primarily a service provider. A new employment contract law became effective on January 1, 2008 in China. It imposes more stringent requirements on employers in relation to entry into fixed-term employment contracts, recruitment of temporary employees and dismissal of employees. In addition, under the newly promulgated Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which also became effective on January 1, 2008, employees who have worked continuously for more than one year are entitled to paid vacation ranging from 5 to 15 days, depending on the length of the employee’s service. Employees who waive such vacation entitlements at the request of the employer will be compensated for three times their normal daily salaries for each vacation day so waived. As a result of the new law and regulations, our labor costs may increase. There is no assurance that disputes, work stoppages or strikes will not arise in the future. Increases in the labor costs or future disputes with our employees could damage our business, financial condition or operating results. Under the New Enterprise Income Tax Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification will likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC stockholders. China passed a new Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, and its implementing rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. On April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Concerning Relevant Issues Regarding Cognizance of Chinese Investment Controlled Enterprises Incorporated Offshore as Resident Enterprises pursuant to Criteria of de facto Management Bodies, or the Notice, further interpreting the application of the EIT Law and its implementation against non-Chinese enterprise or group controlled offshore entities. Pursuant to the Notice, an enterprise incorporated in an offshore jurisdiction and controlled by a Chinese enterprise or group will be classified as a “domestically incorporated resident enterprise” if (i) its senior management in charge of daily operations reside or perform their duties mainly in China; (ii) its financial or personnel decisions are made or approved by bodies or persons in China; (iii) its substantial assets and properties, accounting books, corporate chops, Board and shareholder minutes are kept in China; and (iv) at least half of its Directors with voting rights or senior management often resident in China. A resident enterprise would be subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25% on its worldwide income and its non-PRC stockholders would be subject to a withholding tax at a rate of 10% when dividends are paid to such non-PRC stockholders. However, it remains unclear as to whether the Notice is applicable to an offshore enterprise incorporated by a Chinese natural person. Nor are detailed measures on enforcement of PRC tax against non-domestically incorporated resident enterprises are available. Therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. We may be deemed to be a resident enterprise by Chinese tax authorities. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that income such as interest on financing proceeds and non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Second, although under the EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiary would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, it is possible that future guidance issued with respect to the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC stockholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC stockholders from transferring our shares. We are actively monitoring the possibility of “resident enterprise” treatment for the 2010 tax year and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to avoid this treatment, to the extent possible. 16 Table of Contents If we were treated as a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we would be subject to taxation in both the U.S. and China, and our PRC tax may not be creditable against our U.S. tax. We May Be Classified As A Passive Foreign Investment Company, Which Could Result In Adverse U.S. Tax Consequences To U.S. Investors. We are a U.S. corporation which indirectly owns more than a 50% interest in certain Chinese operating companies, and also owns 50% or less of certain other Chinese operating companies. The Chinese subsidiaries in which we own more than a 50% interest are classified as Controlled Foreign Corporations (“CFC”) for U.S. tax purposes. Under the CFC tax rules, if a Chinese subsidiary’s income is considered to be foreign personal holding company or foreign sales or services income, such income could be subject to U.S. taxation whether or not distributed to us under the current U.S. tax rules. On the other hand, the Chinese subsidiaries in which we own 50% or less, might be classified as a Passive Foreign Investment Company (“PFIC”) by the United States Internal Revenue Service. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to us. For example, if our Chinese subsidiary is a PFIC, we might become subject to increased U.S. tax liabilities and will also become subject to additional reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not the subsidiary is a PFIC is made on an annual basis, and those determinations depend on the composition of its income and assets. We intend to operate our business so as to minimize the risk of PFIC treatment. However, you should be aware that certain factors that could affect classification as PFIC are outside of our control. In the event our Chinese subsidiaries are determined to be a PFIC, our stock may become less attractive to U.S. investors, which may negatively impact the price of our common stock. We face uncertainty from China’s Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax on Non-Resident Enterprises' Share Transfer, or Circular 698, that was released in December 2009 with retroactive effect from January 1, 2008. The Chinese State Administration of Taxation released a circular on December 15, 2009 that addresses the transfer of shares by nonresident companies, generally referred to as Circular 698. Circular 698, which is effective retroactively to January 1, 2008, may have a significant impact on many companies that use offshore holding companies to invest in China. Circular 698, which provides parties with a short period of time to comply with its requirements, indirectly taxes foreign companies on gains derived from the indirect sale of a Chinese company. Where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise by selling the shares in an offshore holding company, and the latter is located in a country or jurisdiction where the effective tax burden is less than 12.5% or where the offshore income of his, her, or its residents is not taxable, the foreign investor is required to provide the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise with the relevant information within 30 days of the transfers. Moreover, where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise through an abuse of form of organization and there are no reasonable commercial purposes such that the corporate income tax liability is avoided, the PRC tax authority will have the power to re-assess the nature of the equity transfer in accordance with PRC’s “substance-over-form” principle and deny the existence of the offshore holding company that is used for tax planning purposes. There is uncertainty as to the application of Circular 698. For example, while the term "indirectly transfer" is not defined, it is understood that the relevant PRC tax authorities have jurisdiction regarding requests for information over a wide range of foreign entities having no direct contact with China. It is also unclear, in the event that an offshore holding company is treated as a domestically incorporated resident enterprise, whether Circular 698 would still be applicable to transfer of shares in such offshore holding company. Moreover, the relevant authority has not yet promulgated any formal provisions or formally declared or stated how to calculate the effective tax in the country or jurisdiction and to what extent and the process of the disclosure to the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise. In addition, there are not any formal declarations with regard to how to decide “abuse of form of organization” and “reasonable commercial purpose,” which can be utilized by us to balance if our Company complies with the Circular 698. If Circular 698 is determined to be applicable to us based on the facts and circumstances around such share transfers, we may become at risk of being taxed under Circular 698 and we may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 or to establish that we should not be taxed under Circular 698, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Chinese anti-corruption laws, and any determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, or FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties, and make most of our sales in China. The PRC also strictly prohibits bribery of government officials. Our activities in China create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by the employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors of our Company, even though they may not always be subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors of our Company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA or Chinese anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the U.S. government may seek to hold our Company liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. 17 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK The market price of our common stock is volatile, leading to the possibility of its value being depressed at a time when you may want to sell your holdings. The market price of our common stock is volatile, and this volatility may continue. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our common stock may be highly volatile for specific business reasons. Factors such as variations in our revenues, earnings and cash flow, announcements of new investments, cooperation arrangements or acquisitions, and fluctuations in market prices for our products could cause the market price for our shares to change substantially. Securities class action litigation is often instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our management’s attention and resources. Moreover, the trading market for our common stock will be influenced by research or reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock, the market price for our common stock would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which, in turn, could cause the market price for our common stock or trading volume to decline. Furthermore, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock and other interests in our company at a time when you want to sell your interest in us. Although publicly traded, the trading market in our common stock has been substantially less liquid than the average trading market for a stock quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market and this low trading volume may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our common stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”). The trading market in our common stock has been substantially less liquid than the average trading market for companies quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market. Limited trading volume will subject our shares of common stock to greater price volatility and may make it difficult for you to sell your shares of common stock at a price that is attractive to you. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws or Nevada law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of us or changes in our management and, therefore depress the trading price of the common stock. Our articles of incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the Board of Directors without further action by the stockholders. These terms may include preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights, redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The issuance of any preferred stock could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce the value of such common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prevent or make it more costly to acquire or effect a change-in-control, which in turn could prevent our stockholders from recognizing a gain in the event that a favorable offer is extended and could materially and negatively affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, Nevada corporate law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain certain other provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company or changes in its management that our stockholders may deem advantageous. These provisions: ● deny holders of our common stock cumulative voting rights in the election of Directors, meaning that stockholders owning a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock will be able to elect all of our Directors; ● require any stockholder wishing to properly bring a matter before a meeting of stockholders to comply with specified procedural and advance notice requirements; and ● allow any vacancy on the Board of Directors, however the vacancy occurs, to be filled by the Directors. 18 Table of Contents Certain of our stockholders hold a significant percentage of our outstanding voting securities. Mr. Shane McMahon, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is the beneficial owner of approximately 58.91% of our outstanding voting securities, and Mr. Weicheng Liu, a Senior Executive Officer, is the beneficial owner of approximately 12.34% of our outstanding voting securities (as calculated in accordance with Rule 13d-3(d)(1) of the Exchange Act). As a result, each possesses significant influence and can elect a majority of our Board of Directors and authorize or prevent proposed significant corporate transactions. Their respective ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, investors must be prepared to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation to earn an investment return, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our Board deems relevant. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable. 