Risk Factors” included herein, as well as assumptions, which, if they were to ever materialize or prove incorrect, could cause the results of the Company to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance, or achievements. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We are under no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this report to conform our prior statements to actual results or revised expectations. Use of Terms Except as otherwise indicated by the context, references in this report to (i) the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are to the combined business of China Broadband, Inc., a Nevada corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries; (ii) “Broadband Cayman” are to our wholly-owned subsidiary China Broadband, Ltd., a Cayman Islands company; (iii) “WFOE” are to our wholly-owned subsidiary Beijing China Broadband Network Technology Co., Ltd., a PRC company; (iv) “Jinan Broadband” are to our 51% owned subsidiary Jinan Guangdian Jia He Broadband Co. Ltd, a PRC company; (v) “Shandong Publishing” are to our 50% joint venture Shandong Lushi Media Co., Ltd., a PRC company; (vi) “AdNet” are to our wholly-owned subsidiary Wanshi Wangjing Media Technologies (Beijing) Co., Ltd. (a/k/a AdNet Media Technologies (Beijing) Co., Ltd.), a PRC company; (vii) “SEC” are to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission; (viii) “Securities Act” are to Securities Act of 1933, as amended; (ix) “Exchange Act” are to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; (x) “PRC” and “China” are to People’s Republic of China; (xii) “Renminbi” and “RMB” are to the legal currency of China; and (xiii) “U.S. dollar,” “$” and “US$” are to United States dollars. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Business Overview Through our Chinese operating subsidiaries, we operate in the media segment (1) a cable broadband business based in the Jinan region of China and (2) a television program guide, newspaper and magazine publishing business based in the Shandong region of China. We have also recently acquired and are developing to a limited extent, an internet café advertising and content provider business in China. Through our subsidiary Jinan Broadband, we provide cable and wireless broadband services, principally internet services, Internet Protocol Point wholesale services, related network equipment rental and sales, and fiber network construction and maintenance. This broadband business constitutes our flagship operations and accounted for 59% of our revenues in 2009. We operate our publishing business, which includes the distribution of periodicals, the publication of advertising, the organization of public relations events, the provision of information related services, copyright transactions, the production of audio and video products, and the provision of audio value added communication services, through Shandong Publishing, our joint venture company. Our publishing business accounted for 41% of our revenues in 2009. Our subsidiary AdNet, which was acquired during the first half of 2009, holds an Internet Content Provider (“ICP”), license with rights to provide delivery of multimedia advertising content to internet cafés in the PRC. AdNet is licensed to operate in 28 provinces in the PRC with servers in five data centers including Wuhan, Wenzhou, Yantai, Yunan and with a master distribution server in Tongshan. 1 As previously reported, management has opted to limit its expenses in respect with ANet’s business and has reduced AdNet’s full and part time staff, all of which were based in the PRC, from 20 persons to 2 full time employees. Nonetheless, we are maintaining AdNet’s ICP and other licenses, servers and infrastructures, as well as all of its intellectual property, all of which we intend on using for both AdNet and, in connection with other businesses that we are contemplating acquiring or entering into, which would require similar technology and infrastructure. Corporate History and Structure General China Broadband, Inc., a Nevada corporation and our parent holding company, was formed on October 22, 2004, pursuant to a reorganization of a California entity formed in 1988. Prior to January 2007, we were a blank check shell company. On January 23, 2007, we acquired Broadband Cayman which at the time was a party to the cooperation agreement with our PRC based WFOE, in a reverse acquisition transaction, resulting in a change of control of the Company, and simultaneously completed the first closing of an equity financing of common stock and warrants. The Company maintains its US corporate office at 1900 Ninth Street, 3rd Floor, Boulder, Colorado 80302. The Company’s website is www.chinabroadband.tv and phone number is: (303) 449-7733. Our stock symbol is CBBD.OB. Jinan Broadband Cooperation Agreement In December 2006, through our WFOE, we entered into to a cooperation agreement, referred to herein as the Jinan Broadband Cooperation Agreement, with Jinan Guangdian Jiahe Digital Television Co., Ltd., or Jinan Parent, pursuant to which we acquired and currently own a 51% controlling interest in Jinan Broadband. The Jinan Broadband Cooperation Agreement provides that Jinan Broadband’s operations and pre-tax revenues would be assigned to our WFOE for 20 years, effectively providing for an acquisition of the business. In consideration for this 20 year business and management rights license, we paid approximately $2,572,000, including expenses in March 2007 and the remaining approximate $3.2 million (based on 23 million RMB) in March of 2008. While this acquisition was completed in late March of 2007 with an effective transfer of assets date of April 1, 2007, we commenced certain operational oversight of this entity prior to such time. Jinan Broadband also entered into an exclusive service agreement, referred to herein as the Exclusive Service Agreement, with Jinan Radio and Television Network, the primary cable TV network in China, and Jinan Parent, pursuant to which the parties cooperate and provide each other with technical services related to their respective broadband, cable and Internet content-based businesses. Shandong Publishing Cooperation Agreement On March 7, 2008, we entered into a cooperation agreement, or the Shandong Publishing Cooperation Agreement, with Shandong Broadcast & TV Weekly Press and Modern Movie & TV Biweekly Press. The Shandong Publishing Cooperation Agreement provides for, among other terms, the creation of a joint venture entity in the PRC, Shandong Publishing, that would own and operate the television program guide, newspaper and magazine publishing businesses previously owned and operated by Shandong Broadcast & TV Weekly Press and Modern Movie & TV Biweekly Press pursuant to exclusive licenses. Under the terms of the Shandong Publishing Cooperation Agreement and related pledge and trust documents, Shandong Broadcast & TV Weekly Press and Modern Movie & TV Biweekly Press contributed their entire businesses and transferred certain employees to Shandong Publishing in exchange for a 50% stake in Shandong Publishing, with the other 50% of Shandong Publishing to be owned by our WFOE in the PRC. In exchange, we paid approximately $1.5 million (approximately 10 million RMB), which was contributed to Shandong Publishing as working and acquisition capital. The results of the Shandong Publishing have been consolidated with the Company’s consolidated financial statements as of July 1, 2008. Based on certain financial performance thresholds being satisfied we were required to make an additional payment of 5 million RMB (approximately $730,000). In 2008 we recorded the additional payment due as an increase to our Shandong noncontrolling interest account. The due date of the additional payment has been extended to May 31, 2010. As part of the transaction, and to facilitate our ownership and control over Shandong Publishing under PRC law, we loaned Shandong Publishing said funds pursuant to a loan agreement and equity option agreement, and a majority of the shares of Shandong Publishing are held on our behalf by Pu Yue, our CFO, as trustee on behalf of the Company pursuant to a pledge agreement and trustee agreement. 2 In addition, Shandong Broadcast & TV Weekly Press and Modern Movie & TV Biweekly Press entered into an exclusive advertising agency agreement and an exclusive consulting services agreement with Shandong Publishing which requires that Shandong Broadcast & TV Weekly Press and Modern Movie & TV Biweekly Press shall appoint Shandong Publishing as their exclusive advertising agent and provider of technical and management support for a fee. Acquisition of AdNet On April 7, 2009, we acquired AdNet, a development stage company, whose primary business was, until December 2009 as discussed above, the delivery of multimedia advertising content to internet cafés in the PRC. Pursuant to the terms of this acquisition, we issued 11,254,898 shares of our Common Stock to AdNet’s shareholders in exchange for 100% of AdNet’s equity ownership and $100,000 paid to us. As part of the terms of this acquisition, and to facilitate our ownership and control over AdNet under PRC law, we loaned AdNet $100,000 pursuant to a loan agreement and equity option agreement, and all of the shares of AdNet are held by a trustee appointed by the Company to act as directed by the Company. We have since reduced expenditures and staff in the AdNet business but maintain and intend on utilizing and commercializing AdNet’s IP, servers and various licenses it owns in the PRC that authorize it to operate in over 28 provinces and over 2,000 internet cafés. Corporate Structure The following chart depicts our corporate structure as of the date of this report: Pursuant to the Jinan Broadband Cooperation Agreement and Shandong Publishing Cooperation Agreement, respectively, our WFOE owns 51% of Jinan Broadband and 50% of Shandong Publishing and controls both entities. Jinan Broadband’s other 49% owners are Jinan Parent and certain of its affiliates. Shandong Publishing’s other 50% owners are Shandong Broadcast & TV Weekly Press and Modern Movie & TV Biweekly Press. The shares of Shandong Publishing issued to our WFOE and of AdNet issued to Broadband Cayman are held in trust pursuant to loan and pledge agreements securing loans made to facilitate such acquisitions, and transferring full control over such entities. Our Broadband Business Jinan Parent, the entity that sold its cable broadband business to us, is an emerging cable consolidator and operator in China’s cable broadband market. Jinan Broadband, which is 49% owned by Jinan Parent and 51% owned by our WFOE, is operated in accordance with the Jinan Broadband Cooperation Agreement and one or more operating agreements, including the Exclusive Service Agreement. Jinan Broadband operates out of its base in Shandong where it has an exclusive cable broadband deployment partnership and Exclusive Service Agreement with Jinan Radio & Television Network, the only cable TV operator in Jinan. Pursuant to the Exclusive Service Agreement, the parties cooperate and provide each other with technical services related to their respective broadband, cable and Internet content-based businesses. Currently, the only broadband services available in the Jinan region are through cable and high speed internet lines, as satellite internet cable connections are not currently available in Jinan, China. We believe that we compete on the basis of more favorable rates and our ability to provide a variety of interactive media services through a partnership with Jinan Radio and Television Network Centers, or Jinan Center. Finally, cable enjoys a high household penetration rate in urban areas and our internet service is competitively fast and reliable. (See www.jinan.gov.cn). The broadband internet business in China has limited competition, since we were granted an exclusive license and right to do so via cable in the Jinan region. Our Publishing Business Our publishing business includes the distribution of periodicals, the publication of advertising, the organization of public relations events, the provision of information related services, copyright transactions, the production of audio and video products, and the provision of audio value added communication services. The Shandong Publishing Cooperation Agreement also provides that these businesses will be operated primarily by employees contracted to Shandong Publishing through secondment by Shandong Broadcast & TV Weekly Press and Modern Movie & TV Biweekly Press. 3 In addition to being the exclusive provincial television programming guide publishing group in the Shandong province, Shandong Publishing has: · a combined subscription basis of approximately 250,000 subscribers; · five publishing assets focused on different readership segments; · retail and subscription incomes accounting for more than 75% of total revenue, indicating great growth potential for advertising revenue; and · unique publishing titles and exclusive copyrights. Following is a description of some of our publications: · Shandong Broadcast and TV Weekly (Newspaper). Established in 1954, Shandong Broadcast & TV Weekly is a provincial TV programming guide & general entertainment newspaper. Published on weekly basis, it has maintained 90,000 average copies in circulation per week. Target readership of Shandong Broadcast & TV Weekly consists primarily of middle-age to senior readers in the Shandong region. · TV Weekly Magazine. TV Weekly Magazine is a national PRC magazine title, ranked among China’s top 5 TV Guide & general entertainment magazines. Published on a weekly basis, this magazine’s average circulation is 40,000 copies in the Shandong region. The unique national publishing title encourages TV Weekly to expand it’s target market to neighboring regions in northern China. · Modern Movie Times Magazine (Bi-Weekly). Modern Movie Time Magazine is published jointly by Shandong TV Drama and Movie Production Center and Shandong TV Station. Ranked among the top 100 magazine for 5 consecutive years in China, it’s among the most popular magazine in northern China. Modern Movie Times Magazine reached 125,000 copies in circulation on bi-weekly basis in year 2009. · Music Review and Korea Drama (monthly). These are two smaller publications that were acquired in 2009. Circulation in each of these magazines is small. They are currently distributed in larger cities. We feel that there is good growth potential for both publications as we integrate them into our distribution and content channels. Our Advertising Business Our subsidiary AdNet, which was acquired during the first half of 2009, holds an Internet Content Provider (“ICP”) license with rights to provide delivery of multimedia advertising content to internet cafés in the PRC. AdNet is licensed to operate in 28 provinces in the PRC with servers in five data centers including Wuhan, Wenzhou, Yantai, Yunan and with a master distribution server in Tongshan. As previously reported and as we have seen limited growth in this business, management has opted to limit its expenses in respect of AdNet’s business and has reduced AdNet’s full and part time staff, all of which were based in the PRC, from 20 persons to 2 full time employees. Nonetheless, we will continue to maintain AdNet’s ICP and other licenses, servers and infrastructure, as well as all of its intellectual property, all of which we intend on using both for AdNet and, in connection with other businesses that we contemplate acquiring or entering into, which would require similar technology and infrastructure. Management believes that, by partnering with a local advertising agency, AdNet could potentially provide a network for tens of thousands of daily video advertisement insertions to entertainment content traffic (movies, music, video, and games) which the various divisions of the Company could tap into. Our Industry Until 2005, there were over 2,000 independent cable operators in the PRC. While PRC’s State Administration of Radio, Film, and Television, or SARFT, has advocated for national consolidation of cable networks, the consolidation has primarily occurred at the provincial level. The 30 provinces are highly variable in their consolidation efforts and processes. Many cable operators in China, on a stand-alone basis, may lack the economies of scale to systematically introduce value-added services that can significantly upgrade ARPU. 4 SARFT has taken various steps to implement a separation scheme to achieve economies of scale in the value-added service and cable operation sector. First, SARFT has been separating cable network assets from broadcasting assets and currently allows state-owned-enterprises to hold up to 49% in the cable network infrastructure assets. Second, SARFT is separating the value-added services segment from the network infrastructure which tends to increase private investments. Due to its highly-regulated nature, we believe that the radio and broadcasting industry does not have the same financial resources as the deregulated telecom industry in China, and that the priorities and goals of this industry are different from the telecom industry. We believe that SARFT and its broadcasters are currently focusing on increasing subscription revenues by converting Chinese television viewers from “analog” service to “digital” (pay TV) service. The digitalization efforts include providing set-top-boxes free of charge as part of a digital television service bundling initiative. Due to the lack of financial resources, the rollout of cable broadband services and other value-added services is moved lower on the SARFT priority list. Our Competition Jinan Broadband We believe that local telecom carriers that offer non-cable internet services, such as DSL, represent our primary broadband internet segment competition in the PRC. An example is China Netcom, a telecom carrier in the Shandong province of China. Many of our competitors also have resources and capital resources that exceed our own. Local telecom carriers are actively marketing broadband services on national, provincial, as well as local levels in China. Telecom carriers own “last mile access” to urban households in the form of fixed phone lines. We believe, however, that cable operators have a competitive advantage by owning last mile connections in the form of cable lines that have a larger bandwidth relative to phone lines. In urban areas that we target, a large number of households have both fixed phone line and cable television access. Many of these homes currently have telecom based internet access. Cable operators in China must purchase internet connection bandwidth from the local telecom carriers. Since the local telecom carriers are not required to pay for internet connection bandwidth, which increases their profit margins relative to cable broadband service providers. This affords them a potential price advantage, but to date their prices remain in line with our prices. We believe, however, that the ability for cable operators to bundle cable broadband with digital Set-top boxes combined with the quality and versatility of cable based broadband services, provides a competitive advantage. For example, voice over internet protocol telephony service (known as “VOIP”) can be provided over cable lines with limited added costs to us or the end user. We do not have plans to provide value added services such as VOIP to our customers in the near future. Instead, we plan to pursue expansion opportunities by increasing the number of geographical regions in which we are licensed to operate. Shandong Publishing There are approximately 17 entertainment newspapers and numerous entertainment magazines in Shandong province and throughout China. Competition in this sector is very strong. Management hopes to gain a competitive advantage and additional revenue by focusing on advertising by leveraging our advertising business. We will also attempt to deliver publication content electronically through our broadband division. Our Growth Strategy We intend to implement the following strategic plans to take advantage of industry opportunities and our competitive strengths: · Focus on Shandong Region. The Shandong province has a population of approximately 92 million people with the second highest gross domestic product, or GDP, ranking in China. The Shandong province is served by 17 municipal cable television operators, including Jinan Parent, the cable operator and affiliate of Jinan Broadband. Jinan, with a population of 5.9 million, is the capital city of the Shandong Province. The Shandong Newspaper division is also located in Jinan in the Shandong Province. Currently, its primary distribution is in the Shandong province with approximately 250,000 subscribers. We continue to believe that the Shandong regional market provides a potential opportunity for expanding our current and future media services. We intend to develop and evolve our market strategy on an ongoing basis based on our results in the Shandong region. 5 · Bundle with Direct TV Rollout. We believe that Chinese cable companies are exerting efforts to digitalize cable networks which we believe will increase the use and availability of digital set-top-boxes, STBs, in the Shandong province. By 2015, SARFT intends for the entire country to deploy digital cable television and cease providing analog television transmission services. This will require the conversion of current “analog” cable customers into “digital” or pay television cable subscribers. Analog cable customers currently pay on average $1.50 per month for cable television service. Digital cable customers with STBs are projected to pay $3.50 per month, as a basic fee. We hope to capitalize on the digitalization campaign initiated by SARFT by bundling cable broadband services in the digital STB rollout campaign. One marketing strategy that we intend to employ is to bundle cable broadband service offerings within the digitalization campaign in the Jinan area. The terms of our exclusive service agreement with Jinan Parent and Jinan Center provide that they will provide us the first right to market and sell STB bundled services when it is rolled out by them in the Jinan region. In order to push for digitalization, the cable operators in Shandong are subsidizing STBs to offer them for free to selected high-end cable television customers. In new territories that do not already have cable, we may also be required to subsidize STBs. Jinan Parent provides subsidies to plug-in cable broadband features on to the current STB platform. Our success will be dependent, in part, on our ability to work with Jinan Parent and Jinan Center to distribute such STBs to selected cable television customers located in more affluent communities. While the cable broadband feature is offered as optional to digital STBs users, with careful choice of deployment targets, we plan to attempt to convert digital cable television subscribers to cable broadband customers. · Deployment of Value-added Services. To augment our product offerings and create other revenue sources, we work with strategic partners to deploy value-added services to our cable broadband customers. Value-added services will become a focus of revenue generation for our company. No assurance can be made that we will add other value-added services, or if added, that they will succeed. Our Customers As of December 31, 2009, Jinan Broadband had approximately 58,000 cable internet subscribers. Shandong Publishing had, in aggregate amongst its various titles, a reader base of approximately 250,000 persons. All of our customers are in the PRC. Intellectual Property We are not a party to any royalty agreements, labor contracts or franchise agreements, and other than our right to own and operate Jinan Broadband, we do not currently own any trademarks. We intend to apply for trademarks for the regions in which we operate, such as with respect to Jinan Broadband. Our Employees As of December 31, 2009, we employed a total of 199 full-time employees, with 191 employees after our reduction of AdNet staff through February of 2010. The following table sets forth the number of our employees by function at December 31, 2009. Function Number of Employees Sales and Marketing 50 Technical 84 Research and Development 15 Financial 15 Administrative 35 TOTAL 199 Our employees are not represented by a labor organization or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages. 6 We are required under PRC law to make contributions to the employee benefit plans at specified percentages of the after-tax profit. In addition, we are required by the PRC law to cover employees in China with various types of social insurance. We believe that we are in material compliance with the relevant PRC laws. Seasonality Our operating results and operating cash flows historically have not been subject to seasonal variations. This pattern may change, however, as a result of new market opportunities or new product introductions. Regulation General Regulation of Businesses Our PRC based operating subsidiaries are regulated by the national and local laws of the PRC. The radio and television broadcasting industries and news print media are highly regulated in China. Local broadcasters including national, provincial and municipal radio and television broadcasters are 100% state-owned assets. SARFT regulates the radio and television broadcasting industry. In China, the radio and television broadcasting industries are designed to serve the needs of government programming first, and to make profits next. The SARFT interest group controls broadcasting assets and broadcasting contents in China. The Ministry of Information Industry, or MII, plays a similar role to SARFT in the telecom industry. As China’s telecom industry is much more deregulated than the broadcasting industry. While China’s telecom industry has substantial financial backing, SARFT, and its regulator, the Propaganda Ministry under China’s Communist Party Central Committee, never relinquished ultimate regulatory control over content and broadcasting control. The major internet regulatory barrier for cable operators to migrate into multiple-system operators and to be able to offer telecom services is the license barrier. Few independent cable operators in China acquired full and proper broadband connection licenses from MII. The licenses, while awarded by MII, are given on very-fragmented regional market levels. With cable operators holding the last mile to access end users, SARFT cable operators pose a competitive threat to local telecom carriers. While internet connection licenses are deregulated to even the local private sector, MII still tries to utilize the license barrier to fence off threats from cable operators that falls under the SARFT interest group. We are required to obtain government approval from the Ministry of Commerce of the People’s Republic of China, or MOFCOM, and other government agencies in China that approve transactions such as our acquisition of Jinan Broadband. Additionally, foreign ownership of business and assets in China is not permitted without specific government approval. For this reason, we acquired only 51% of Jinan Broadband, with the remaining 49% owned by Jinan Parent and its affiliates. Similarly, Shandong Publishing was acquired through WFOE which owns 50% of the joint venture with the remaining 50% owned by Shandong Broadcast & TV Weekly Press and Modern Movie & TV Biweekly Press. AdNet was acquired under a trustee relationship. We use revenue sharing and voting control agreements among the parties so as to obtain equitable and legal ownership of our subsidiaries. Licenses and Permits Jinan Broadband Through Jinan Broadband’s Cooperation Agreement with Jinan Parent and Jinan Center, we enjoy the benefits of licenses that Jinan Parent holds that allow us to roll out cable broadband services as well as to provide value-added services of radio and TV content in Shandong province, including: Description License/Permit Internet Multi-media Content Transmission License No. 1502005 Radio & Television Program Transmission & Operation Business Permit Shandong No. 1552013 Radio & TV Program Production & Operation License Shandong No. 46 PR China Value-added Telecom Service License Shandong No. B2-20050002 PR China Value-added Telecom Service License Shandong B2-20051013 7 Shandong Publishing Shandong Publishing holds the following licenses: Description License/Permit PRC Newspaper Publication License for Shandong Broadcast & TV Weekly National Unified Publication No: CN 37-0014 PRC Magazine Publication License for View Weekly Ruqichu Nor:1384 PRC Magazine Publication License for Modern Movie & TV Biweekly Ruqichu No:1318 Advertising License for Shandong Broadcast & TV Weekly 3700004000093 Advertising License for View Weekly 3700004000186 Advertising License for Modern Movie & TV Biweekly 3700004000124 AdNet AdNet, holds an ICP license issued by the Ministry of Commerce of the PRC. AdNet, among other things, is authorized to operate and provide content and advertising throughout the PRC in internet Cafés. Taxation For detailed discussion of PRC tax regulations, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Taxation – China.” Foreign Currency Exchange Under the PRC foreign currency exchange regulations applicable to us, RMB is convertible for current account items, including the distribution of dividends, interest payments, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions. Conversion of RMB for capital account items, such as direct investment, loan, security investment and repatriation of investment, however, is still subject to the approval of the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. Foreign invested enterprises, or FIEs, established in the PRC may only buy, sell and/or remit foreign currencies at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business after providing valid commercial documents and, in the case of capital account item transactions, obtaining approval from the SAFE. Capital investments by FIEs outside of China are also subject to limitations, which include approvals by MOFCOM, the SAFE and the State Reform and Development Commission. Dividend Distributions Under applicable PRC regulations, FIEs in China may pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, a FIE in China is required to set aside at least 10.0% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reach 50.0% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. The board of directors of a FIE has the discretion to allocate a portion of its after-tax profits to staff welfare and bonus funds, which may not be distributed to equity owners except in the event of liquidation. The Company intends on reinvesting profits, if any, and does not intend on making cash distributions of dividends in the near future. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in any of the company’s securities is necessarily highly speculative in nature, involves a high degree of risk and illiquidity and should be purchased only by persons who can afford to lose the entire amount invested in the common stock. Before purchasing any securities of the Company, you should carefully consider the following factors relating to our business and prospects. You should pay particular attention to the fact that we conduct all of our operations in China and are governed by a legal and regulatory environment that in some respects differs significantly from the environment that may prevail in the U.S. and other countries. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results will suffer, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 8 RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We are in need of financing and dependent upon our ability to raise additional capital to complete our acquisition strategy. Any new financing is likely to be highly dilutive to existing shareholders. We are dependent upon our ability to raise capital to complete our business plan. We do not have any financial commitments and, given the recent trading history of our stock price, any offering will necessarily be extremely dilutive to our shareholders. Our ability to raise capital would be greatly hindered if we are not able to remain current with our SEC reporting obligations. Remaining current will depend in part, on our ability to prepare and consolidate our financial statements with those of our Chinese subsidiaries. If we do not raise capital, or if we are delisted from the OTC Bulletin Board, our business will be adversely affected. In addition, our existing notes and warrants have anti-dilution provisions which, if triggered, would result in substantial additional shares issuable thereunder, thereby diluting further the existing shareholders. Finally, as we were once a shell company, if we become delinquent in our filings, in addition to other liabilities, our existing restricted shareholders or noteholders will not be able to re-sell securities, subjecting the company to liabilities and making it unlikely that noteholders will convert their notes or that warrant holders will exercise their warrants. Our auditors have expressed substantial doubt in their report on our financial statements about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our auditors have included an explanatory paragraph in their report dated as of April 15, 2010 on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009, indicating that there is substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements included elsewhere in this Report do not include any adjustments to asset values or recorded liability amounts that might be necessary in the event we are unable to continue as a going concern. If we are in fact unable to continue as a going concern, our shareholders may lose their entire investment in our company. We will therefore need immediate additional substantial capital in order to continue to operate. The recent financial crisis could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The recent credit crisis and turmoil in the global financial system may have an impact on our business and our financial condition, and we may face challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. In addition, these economic conditions also impact levels of consumer spending, which have recently deteriorated significantly and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Consumer purchases of discretionary items generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. If demand for our products fluctuates as a result of economic conditions or otherwise, our revenue and gross margin could be harmed. Expansion of our business may put added pressure on our management and operational infrastructure impeding our ability to meet any potential increased demand for our services and possibly hurting our future operating results. Our business plan is to significantly grow our operations to meet anticipated growth in demand for the services that we offer, and by the introduction of new goods or services. Growth in our businesses may place a significant strain on our personnel, management, financial systems and other resources. The evolution of our business also presents numerous risks and challenges, including: · our ability to successfully and rapidly expand sales to potential new distributors in response to potentially increasing demand; · the costs associated with such growth, which are difficult to quantify, but could be significant; and · rapid technological change. To accommodate any such growth and compete effectively, we may need to obtain additional funding to improve information systems, procedures and controls and expand, train, motivate and manage our employees, and such funding may not be available in sufficient quantities, if at all. If we are not able to manage these activities and implement these strategies successfully to expand to meet any increased demand, our operating results could suffer. 9 We do not own Jinan Parent or Jinan Center which are the minority co-owners of our broadband business, or Shandong Broadcast & TV Weekly Press, which is the co-owner of our publishing business, and, if they or their ultimate shareholders or control persons violate our contractual arrangements with them, our business could be disrupted, our reputation may be harmed and we will have only limited rights and ability to enforce our rights against these parties. The vast bulk of our operations are currently dependent upon our contractual relationships with Jinan Center and Jinan Parent with respect to our broadband business and Shandong Broadcast & TV Weekly Press with respect to our publishing business, as described in our Business section above. The terms of these agreements are often statements of general intent and do not detail the rights and obligations of the parties. Some of these contracts provide that the parties will enter into further agreements on the details of the services to be provided. Others contain price and payment terms that are subject to monthly adjustment. These provisions may be subject to differing interpretations, particularly on the details of the services to be provided and on price and payment terms. It may be difficult for us to obtain remedies or damages from these companies or their ultimate shareholders in the PRC for breaching our agreements. Because we rely significantly on these companies for our business, the realization of any of these risks may disrupt our operations or cause degradation in the quality and service provided by, or a temporary or permanent shutdown of, the company. The Jinan Broadband Cooperation Agreement that enables us to own and operate our broadband business, and the exclusive service agreement in which the parties will cooperate and provide each other with technical services related to their respective broadband, cable and Internet content-based businesses, is for a term of 10 years and 20 years, respectively. The contracts commenced December 2006. Our ownership interests in Shandong Publishing is subject to similar limitations. If we are unable to renew these agreements on favorable terms, or to enter into similar agreements with other parties, our business may not expand, and our operating expenses may increase. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to retain our existing key employees and to add and retain senior officers to our management. We depend on the services of our existing key employees, in particular, Marc Urbach, Clive Ng and Pu Yue. Our success will largely depend on our ability to retain these key employees and to attract and retain qualified senior and middle level managers to our management team. While we have retained an accounting firm to assist us on consolidation of financial statements for our PRC businesses, we do not have a full time internal Chief Financial Officer for the consolidated companies. We have recruited executives and management in China to assist in our ability to manage the business and to recruit and oversee employees. While we believe we offer compensation packages that are consistent with market practice, we cannot be certain that we will be able to hire and retain sufficient personnel to support our cable broadband business. In addition, severe capital constraints have limited our ability to attract specialized personnel. Moreover, our budget limitations will restrict our ability to hire qualified personnel. The loss of any of our key employees would significantly harm our business. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. Our officers and directors may allocate their time to other businesses, and are or may be affiliated with entities that may cause conflicts of interest. In particular, our principal shareholder and Chairman is subject to potentially conflicting duties to another company he established to pursue business opportunities in the PRC. Messrs. Ng and Yue and Dr. Lu, and certain of our other officers (and all of our directors) have the ability to allocate their time to other businesses and activities, thereby causing possible conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to the affairs of our Company. These individuals are engaged in several other business endeavors and will continue to be so involved from time to time, and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ongoing business. Certain of our officers and directors are now, and all of them may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us or otherwise, and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time and determining to which entity a particular investment or business opportunity should be presented. Moreover, in light of our officers’ and directors’ existing affiliations with other entities, they may have fiduciary obligations to present potential investment and business opportunities to those entities in addition to presenting them to us, which could cause additional conflicts of interest. While we do not believe that any of our officers or directors has a conflict of interest in terms of presenting to entities other than our investment and business opportunities that may be suitable for it, conflicts of interest may arise in the future in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. 10 We can not assure you that any conflicts will be resolved in our favor. These possible conflicts may inhibit the activities of such officers and directors in seeking acquisition candidates to expand the geographic reach of the Company or broaden its service offerings. For a complete description of our management’s other affiliations, see Item 10, “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.’’ In any event, it cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty as to whether or not Mr. Ng, Mr. Pu or Dr. Lu or our other officers or directors will have a conflict of interest with respect to a particular transaction as such determination would be dependent upon the specific facts and circumstances surrounding such transaction at the time. In 2008, Mr. Ng, our Chairman, entered into a settlement agreement with us and China Cablecom Holdings, Ltd., or China Cablecom, another company which he organized to pursue cable opportunities in the PRC, and certain of its affiliated entities, to avoid possible claims that might be brought by us against him for activities in forming China Cablecom. Mr. Yue has entered into a similar agreement with us and China Cablecom. In particular, notwithstanding the terms of the settlement and the amendment to Mr. Ng’s employment agreement with us, Mr. Ng’s continuing relationship with China Cablecom or other entities could lead to future claims of violation of his duties in the event future acquisitions in the PRC are offered to China Cablecom rather than to us, notwithstanding the express terms of the revised employment agreement and provisions of the settlement agreement. Accordingly, Mr. Ng’s revised employment agreement with us contains an express provision permitting Mr. Ng to resign from all positions with the Company in the event an acquisition arises that involves our business, which is how Mr. Ng currently intends to handle opportunities in the future that could create a situation similar to that which led to the settlement agreement. The settlement agreement contains a provision recognizing that the provision of integrated cable television services in the PRC and related activities of China Cablecom do not conflict with our business. However, notwithstanding the terms of the settlement agreement and the amendment to Mr. Ng’s employment agreement with us, Mr. Ng’s or Mr. Yue’s continuing relationship with China Cablecom could lead to future claims of violation of his duties either entity in the event future acquisitions in the PRC are offered to us rather than to China Cablecom, notwithstanding his current intention to resign in such circumstances. We may be unable to compete successfully against new entrants and established industry competitors. The Chinese market for Internet content and services is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. Barriers to entry are relatively minimal, and current and new competitors can launch new websites at a relatively low cost. Many companies offer competitive products or services including Chinese language-based Web search, retrieval and navigation services, wireless value-added services, online games and extensive Chinese language content, informational and community features and e-mail. In addition, as a consequence of China joining the World Trade Organization, the Chinese government has partially lifted restrictions on foreign-invested enterprises so that foreign investors may hold in the aggregate up to approximately 51% of the total equity ownership in any value-added telecommunications business, including an Internet business, in China. Currently, our competition comes from standard “telephone” internet providers. Any of our present or future competitors may offer products and services that provide significant performance, price, creativity or other advantages over those offered by us and, therefore, achieve greater market acceptance than ours. Because many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential competitors, have longer operating histories in the Internet market, greater name and brand recognition, better connections with the Chinese government, larger customer bases and databases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have, we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. Any increased competition could reduce page views, make it difficult for us to attract and retain users, reduce or eliminate our market share, lower our profit margins and reduce our revenues. Unexpected network interruption caused by system failures may reduce user base and harm our reputation. Both the continual and foremost accessibility of internet service websites and the performance and reliability of our technical infrastructure are critical to our reputation and the ability of our internet services to attract and retain users and advertisers. Any system failure or performance inadequacy that causes interruptions or delays in the availability of our services or increases the response time of our services could reduce user satisfaction and traffic, which would reduce the internet service appeal to users of “high speed” internet usage. As the number of users and traffic increase, we cannot assure you that we will be able to scale our systems proportionately. In addition, any system failures and electrical outages could materially and adversely impact our business. 11 Computer viruses may cause delays or interruptions on our systems and may reduce our customer base and harm our reputation. Computer viruses may cause delays or other service interruptions on our systems. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect our internet service against the threat of such computer viruses and to alleviate any problems. Moreover, if a computer virus affecting our system is highly publicized, our reputation could be materially damaged and customers may cancel our service. If our providers of bandwidth and server custody service fail to provide these services, our business could be materially curtailed. We rely on affiliates of Jinan Parent to provide us with bandwidth and server custody service for Internet users. If Jinan Parent or their affiliates fail to provide such services or raise prices for their services, we may not be able to find a reliable and cost-effective substitute provider on a timely basis or at all. If this happens, our business could be materially curtailed We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to have those controls attested to by our independent auditors. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX 404, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 10-K. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements must also attest to the operating effectiveness of the company’s internal controls. Under current law, we are subject to these requirements beginning with our annual report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, although the auditor attestation is not required until our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010, assuming our filing status remains as a smaller reporting company. A report of our management is included under Item 9A(T) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures have been ineffective, and failure to improve them could lead to future errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement or untimely filings, which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, and a decline in our stock price. We are constantly striving to establish and improve our business management and internal control over financial reporting to forecast, budget and allocate our funds. However, as a PRC company that has recently become a US public company , we face difficulties in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to achieve and maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting in a short period of time. In connection with the preparation and audit of our 2009 financial statements and notes, we were informed by our auditor, UHY LLP (“UHY”) of certain deficiencies in our internal controls that UHY considered to be material weaknesses. These deficiencies related to our financial closing procedures and errors in classification of warrants. After discussions between management, our audit committee and UHY, we concluded that the Company had not properly adopted FASB ASC Topic 815-40 (“Derivatives and Hedging: Contracts in Entity’s Own Equity”) (“ASC 815”) and as a result had not reclassified warrants from equity to liabilities as of January 1, 2009. As a result of the change in accounting, the Company recognized a $512,000 charge for the year ended December 31, 2009. As a result of the material weakness in our internal controls and the ineffectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures described above, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm or business and the trading price of our stock. Because of the above-referenced deficiencies and weaknesses in our disclosure controls and procedures and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley Act’s internal controls requirements, and therefore may not be able to obtain the independent auditor certifications that the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires publicly-traded companies to obtain. As a result of any deficiencies and weaknesses, we may experience difficulty in collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records, and instituting business practices that meet international standards, failure of which may prevent us from accurately reporting our financial results or detecting and preventing fraud. 12 We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that we violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, or the FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties and make sales in China, which may experience corruption. Our activities in China create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our company, because these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. Also, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the government may seek to hold our Company liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Changes in China's political or economic situation could harm us and our operating results. Economic reforms adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the country, but the government could change these economic reforms or any of the legal systems at any time. This could either benefit or damage our operations and profitability. Some of the things that could have this effect are: · Level of government involvement in the economy; · Control of foreign exchange; · Methods of allocating resources; · Balance of payments position; · International trade restrictions; and · International conflict. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in many ways. For example, state-owned enterprises still constitute a large portion of the Chinese economy and weak corporate governance and a lack of flexible currency exchange policy still prevail in China. As a result of these differences, we may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy was similar to those of the OECD member countries. Increased government regulation of the telecommunications and Internet industries in China may result in the Chinese government requiring us to obtain additional licenses or other governmental approvals to conduct our business which, if unattainable, may restrict our operations. The telecommunications industry is highly regulated by the Chinese government, the main relevant government authority being the MII. Prior to China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, the Chinese government generally prohibited foreign investors from taking any equity ownership in or operating any telecommunications business. ICP services are classified as telecommunications value-added services and therefore fall within the scope of this prohibition. This prohibition was partially lifted following China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, allowing foreign investors to own interests in Chinese businesses. In addition, foreign and foreign invested enterprises are currently not able to apply for the required licenses for operating cable broadband services in China. We cannot be certain that we will be granted any of the appropriate licenses, permits or clearance that we may need in the future. Moreover, we cannot be certain that any local or national ICP or telecommunications license requirements will not conflict with one another or that any given license will be deemed sufficient by the relevant governmental authorities for the provision of our services. 13 We rely exclusively on contractual arrangements with Jinan Parent and its approvals to operate as an ICP. We believe that our present operations are structured to comply with applicable Chinese law. However, many Chinese regulations are subject to extensive interpretive powers of governmental agencies and commissions. We cannot be certain that the Chinese government will not take action to prohibit or restrict our business activities. We are uncertain as to whether the Chinese government will reclassify our business as a media or retail company, due to our acceptance of fees for Internet advertising, online games and wireless value-added and other services as sources of revenues, or as a result of our current corporate structure. Such reclassification could subject us to penalties, fines or significant restrictions on our business. Future changes in Chinese government policies affecting the provision of information services, including the provision of online services, Internet access, e-commerce services and online advertising, may impose additional regulatory requirements on us or our service providers or otherwise harm our business. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries in the PRC. Our operating subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, a series of new PRC laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to evolve rapidly, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to you and us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, all of our executive officers and all of our directors are residents of China and not of the United States, and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to affect service of process in the United States or to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against our Chinese operations and subsidiaries. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments against us. Most of our assets are located outside of the United States and most of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Our counsel as to PRC law, has advised us that the recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments are provided for under the PRC Civil Procedures Law. Courts in China may recognize and enforce foreign judgments in accordance with the requirements of the PRC Civil Procedures Law based on treaties between China and the country where the judgment is made or on reciprocity between jurisdictions. China does not have any treaties or other arrangements that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments with the United States. In addition, according to the PRC Civil Procedures Law, courts in the PRC will not enforce a foreign judgment against us or our directors and officers if they decide that the judgment violates basic principles of PRC law or national sovereignty, security or the public interest. So it is uncertain whether a PRC court would enforce a judgment rendered by a court in the United States. The PRC government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The PRC government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. 14 Future inflation within China may inhibit our ability to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and highly fluctuating rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and as low as -2.2% . These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products and our company. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. The majority of our revenues will be settled in RMB and U.S. dollars, and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of RMB for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. The value of our common stock will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. Appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars as well as earnings from, and the value of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Since July 2005, the RMB has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although PBOC regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currencies. Restrictions under PRC law on our PRC subsidiaries' ability to make dividends and other distributions could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could benefit our business, pay dividends to you, and otherwise fund and conduct our businesses. All of our revenues are earned by our PRC subsidiaries. However, PRC regulations restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make dividends and other payments to their offshore parent company. PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividend by our PRC subsidiaries only out of their accumulated after-tax profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our PRC subsidiaries are also required under PRC laws and regulations to allocate at least 10% of our annual after-tax profits determined in accordance with PRC GAAP to a statutory general reserve fund until the amounts in said fund reaches 50% of our registered capital. Allocations to these statutory reserve funds can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances or cash dividends. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. 15 Failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident stockholders to personal liability, limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries' ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially adversely affect us. In October 2005, SAFE issued the Notice on Relevant Issues in the Foreign Exchange Control over Financing and Return Investment Through Special Purpose Companies by Residents Inside China, generally referred to as Circular 75, which required PRC residents to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or acquiring control over an offshore special purpose company, or SPV, for the purpose of engaging in an equity financing outside of China on the strength of domestic PRC assets originally held by those residents. Internal implementing guidelines issued by SAFE, which became public in June 2007 (known as Notice 106), expanded the reach of Circular 75 by (1) purporting to cover the establishment or acquisition of control by PRC residents of offshore entities which merely acquire "control" over domestic companies or assets, even in the absence of legal ownership; (2) adding requirements relating to the source of the PRC resident's funds used to establish or acquire the offshore entity; (3) covering the use of existing offshore entities for offshore financings; (4) purporting to cover situations in which an offshore SPV establishes a new subsidiary in China or acquires an unrelated company or unrelated assets in China; and (5) making the domestic affiliate of the SPV responsible for the accuracy of certain documents which must be filed in connection with any such registration, notably, the business plan which describes the overseas financing and the use of proceeds. Amendments to registrations made under Circular 75 are required in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, mergers and acquisitions, equity investment or creation of any security interest in any assets located in China to guarantee offshore obligations, and Notice 106 makes the offshore SPV jointly responsible for these filings. In the case of an SPV which was established, and which acquired a related domestic company or assets, before the implementation date of Circular 75, a retroactive SAFE registration was required to have been completed before March 31, 2006. This date was subsequently extended indefinitely by Notice 106, which also required that the registrant establish that all foreign exchange transactions undertaken by the SPV and its affiliates were in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with the requirements of Circular 75, as applied by SAFE in accordance with Notice 106, may result in fines and other penalties under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Any such failure could also result in the SPV's affiliates being impeded or prevented from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the SPV, or from engaging in other transfers of funds into or out of China. We have asked our stockholders, who are PRC residents as defined in Circular 75, to register with the relevant branch of SAFE, as currently required, in connection with their equity interests in us and our acquisitions of equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries. However, we cannot provide any assurances that they can obtain the above SAFE registrations required by Circular 75 and Notice 106. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how Circular 75 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries' ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with Circular 75 and Notice 106 by our PRC resident beneficial holders. In addition, such PRC residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by Circular 75 and Notice 106. We also have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect stockholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. A failure by our PRC resident beneficial holders or future PRC resident stockholders to comply with Circular 75 and Notice 106, if SAFE requires it, could subject these PRC resident beneficial holders to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiaries' ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. The M&A Rule establishes more complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. The M&A Rule establishes additional procedures and requirements that could make some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that MOFCOM be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction and in some situations, require approval of the MOFCOM when a foreign investor takes control of a Chinese domestic enterprise. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses, although we do not have any plans to do so at this time. The M&A Rule also requires MOFCOM anti-trust review of any change-of-control transactions involving certain types of foreign acquirers. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. 16 The implementation of the new PRC employment contract law and increases in the labor costs in China may hurt our business and profitability. We are primarily a service provider. A new employment contract law became effective on January 1, 2008 in China. It imposes more stringent requirements on employers in relation to entry into fixed-term employment contracts, recruitment of temporary employees and dismissal of employees. In addition, under the newly promulgated Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which also became effective on January 1, 2008, employees who have worked continuously for more than one year are entitled to paid vacation ranging from 5 to 15 days, depending on the length of the employee’s service. Employees who waive such vacation entitlements at the request of the employer will be compensated for three times their normal daily salaries for each vacation day so waived. As a result of the new law and regulations, our labor costs may increase. There is no assurance that disputes, work stoppages or strikes will not arise in the future. Increases in the labor costs or future disputes with our employees could damage our business, financial condition or operating results. Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification will likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC stockholders. China passed a new Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, and its implementing rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. On April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Concerning Relevant Issues Regarding Cognizance of Chinese Investment Controlled Enterprises Incorporated Offshore as Resident Enterprises pursuant to Criteria of de facto Management Bodies, or the Notice, further interpreting the application of the EIT Law and its implementation non-Chinese enterprise or group controlled offshore entities. Pursuant to the Notice, an enterprise incorporated in an offshore jurisdiction and controlled by a Chinese enterprise or group will be classified as a “non-domestically incorporated resident enterprise” if (i) its senior management in charge of daily operations reside or perform their duties mainly in China; (ii) its financial or personnel decisions are made or approved by bodies or persons in China; (iii) its substantial assets and properties, accounting books, corporate chops, board and shareholder minutes are kept in China; and (iv) at least half of its directors with voting rights or senior management often resident in China. A resident enterprise would be subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25% on its worldwide income and must pay a withholding tax at a rate of 10% when paying dividends to its non-PRC stockholders. However, it remains unclear as to whether the Notice is applicable to an offshore enterprise incorporated by a Chinese natural person. Nor are detailed measures on imposition of tax from non-domestically incorporated resident enterprises are available. Therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. We may be deemed to be a resident enterprise by Chinese tax authorities. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that income such as interest on financing proceeds and non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Second, although under the EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, it is possible that future guidance issued with respect to the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC shareholders from transferring our shares. We are actively monitoring the possibility of “resident enterprise” treatment for the 2010 tax year and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to avoid this treatment, to the extent possible. If we were treated as a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we would be subject to taxation in both the U.S. and China, and our PRC tax may not be creditable against our U.S. tax. 17 RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK GENERALLY Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board which may have an unfavorable impact on our stock price and liquidity. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. The OTC Bulletin Board is a significantly more limited market than the New York Stock Exchange or Nasdaq system. The quotation of our shares on the OTC Bulletin Board may result in a less liquid market available for existing and potential stockholders to trade shares of our common stock, could depress the trading price of our common stock and could have a long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise capital in the future. We have a significant amount of convertible debt and warrants outstanding, all of which have anti dilution provisions. If the notes are converted or warrants exercised, or if the conversion prices are adjusted downward as a result of a stock issuance at our current market rates, you will suffer immediate and substantial dilution to your common stock. Currently the following securities with anti-dilution provisions are outstanding: · $5,276,103 principle amount of convertible debt, convertible at $.20 and $.25 per share into 25,980,515 shares of common stock, · 6,628,333 Common Stock Purchase Warrants exercisable at $0.60 per share, · 1,131,667 Common Stock Purchase Warrants execrable at $0.50 per share, issued to Chardan Capital. In addition, it is not likely that we will be able to raise convertible debt or equity financing without issuing shares at or below market rates, which, in addition to obvious dilution to existing shareholders, would reduce the conversion and exercise prices of the above securities causing further dilution to shareholders. While our existing noteholders and warrant holders have waived certain portions of their anti dilution provisions for this past years’ financing of notes and warrants, no assurance can be made that they will do so in the future. Moreover, anti-dilution provisions in warrants have an additional adverse effect on the Company in that we would be required to reflect the value of such warrants as a potential liability to the Company. No assurance can be made, therefore, that we will be able to raise capital, or, if we do, that the same will not have a material adverse effect on our capitalization or to our balance sheet. The market price of our common stock is volatile, leading to the possibility of its value being depressed at a time when you may want to sell your holdings. The market price of our common stock is volatile, and this volatility may continue. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our common stock may be highly volatile for specific business reasons. Factors such as variations in our revenues, earnings and cash flow, announcements of new investments, cooperation arrangements or acquisitions, and fluctuations in market prices for our products could cause the market price for our shares to change substantially. Securities class action litigation is often instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our management’s attention and resources. Moreover, the trading market for our common stock will be influenced by research or reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock, the market price for our common stock would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which, in turn, could cause the market price for our common stock or trading volume to decline. Furthermore, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock and other interests in our company at a time when you want to sell your interest in us. 18 We may be subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions and you may have difficulty selling shares of our common stock. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define so-called “penny stocks” to be an equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. If our common stock becomes a “penny stock”, we may become subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, or the Penny Stock Rule. This rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouses). For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to sale. As a result, this rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of purchasers to sell any of our securities in the secondary market. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require delivery, prior to any transaction in penny stock, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about sales commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stock. There can be no assurance that our common stock will qualify for exemption from the Penny Stock Rule. In any event, even if our common stock were exempt from the Penny Stock Rule, we would remain subject to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of penny stock, if the SEC finds that such a restriction would be in the public interest. Certain of our stockholders hold a significant percentage of our outstanding voting securities. Mr. Clive Ng, our Chairman, is the beneficial owner of approximately 38% of our outstanding voting securities. As a result, he possesses significant influence and can elect a majority of our board of directors and authorize or prevent proposed significant corporate transactions. His ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws or Nevada law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of us or changes in our management and, therefore depress the trading price of the common stock. Our articles of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the board of directors without further action by the stockholders. These terms may include preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights, redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The issuance of any preferred stock could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce the value of such common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prevent or make it more costly to acquire or effect a change-in-control, which in turn could prevent our stockholders from recognizing a gain in the event that a favorable offer is extended and could materially and negatively affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, Nevada corporate law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain certain other provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company or changes in its management that our stockholders may deem advantageous. These provisions: · deny holders of our common stock cumulative voting rights in the election of directors, meaning that stockholders owning a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock will be able to elect all of our directors; · require any stockholder wishing to properly bring a matter before a meeting of stockholders to comply with specified procedural and advance notice requirements; and · allow any vacancy on the board of directors, however the vacancy occurs, to be filled by the directors. 19 We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, investors must be prepared to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation to earn an investment return, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board deems relevant. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable. ITEM 