Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following disclosures should be read in conjunction with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These disclosures are intended to discuss certain material risks of the Company’s business as they appear to Management at this time. However, this list is not exhaustive. Other risks may, and likely will, arise from time to time. Agricultural risks could adversely affect our business Winemaking and grape growing are subject to a variety of agricultural risks. Various diseases, pests, fungi, viruses, drought, frost and certain other weather conditions can affect the quantity of grapes available to the Company, decreasing the supply of the Company’s products and negatively impacting profitability. In particular, certain of the Company’s vines are not resistant to phylloxera; accordingly, those vines are particularly at risk to the effects from an infestation of phylloxera. Phylloxera is a pest that attacks the rootstocks of wine grape plants. Vineyards in the United States, including some in Oregon and some owned by us, have been infested in recent years with Phylloxera. Since May of 1992, our vineyard properties have been planted with rootstocks believed to be resistant to Phylloxera. However, rootstocks planted by us prior to 1992 are not resistant. There can be no assurance that our existing vineyards, or the rootstocks we are now using in our planting programs, will not become susceptible to current or new strains of Phylloxera. Pierce’s Disease is a vine bacterial disease. It kills grapevines and there is no known cure. Small insects called Sharpshooters spread this disease. A new strain of the Sharpshooter was discovered in Southern California and is believed to be migrating north. We are actively supporting the efforts of the agricultural industry to control this pest and are making every reasonable effort to prevent an infestation in our own vineyards. We cannot, however, guarantee that we will succeed in preventing contamination in our vineyards. Future government restrictions regarding the use of certain materials used in grape growing may increase vineyard costs and/or reduce production. Additionally, long-term changes in weather patterns could adversely affect our business. 11 We may not be able to grow or acquire enough quality fruit for our wines The adequacy of our grape supply is influenced by consumer demand for wine in relation to industry-wide production levels. While we believe that we can secure sufficient supplies of grapes from a combination of our own production and from grape supply contracts with independent growers, we cannot be certain that grape supply shortages will not occur. A shortage in the supply of wine grapes could result in an increase in the price of some or all grape varieties and a corresponding increase in our wine production costs. Loss of key employees could harm our reputation and business Our success depends to some degree upon the continued service of a number of key employees. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees, including the President, Winemaker, and CFO, could harm our business and our reputation and negatively impact our profitability, particularly if one or more of our key employees resigns to join a competitor or to form a competing company. Investments in our Bacchus portfolio may harm our business The Company has invested heavily in products for resale through our Bacchus Fine Wines department. The Company believes that having these products for sale will make it easier to sell additional Company product to the same buyers. If this strategy proves to be unsuccessful, the Company will have substantial inventory of non-Company products to sell at prices that may not cover our costs of such inventory and may result in our selling less Company product than anticipated. Either or both effects could adversely affect our profitability and shareholder value. The Company’s ability to operate requires utilization of the line of credit The Company’s cash flow from operations historically has not been sufficient to provide all funds necessary for the Company’s Operations. The Company has entered into a line of credit agreement to provide such funds and entered into term loan arrangements, the proceeds of which were used to acquire the Tualatin operations, construct the Hospitality Center and pay down the revolving line of credit. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to comply with all conditions under its credit facilities in the future or that the amount available under the line of credit facility will be adequate for the Company’s future needs. Failure to comply with all conditions of the credit facilities or to have sufficient funds for operations could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and shareholder value. Costs of being a publicly-held company may put us at a competitive disadvantage As a public company, we incur substantial costs that are not incurred by our competitors that are privately-held. These compliance costs may result in our wines being more expensive than those produced by our competitors and/or may reduce our profitability compared to such competitors. We face significant competition which could adversely affect our profitability The wine industry is intensely competitive and highly fragmented. Our wines compete in several premium wine market segments with many other premium domestic and foreign wines, with imported wines coming from the Burgundy and Bordeaux regions of France, as well as Italy, Chile, Argentina, South Africa and Australia. Our wines also compete with popular priced generic wines and with other alcoholic and, to a lesser degree, non-alcoholic beverages, for shelf space in retail stores and for marketing focus by our independent distributors, many of which carry extensive brand portfolios. A result of this intense competition has been and may continue to be upward pressure on our selling and promotional expenses. In addition, the wine industry has experienced significant consolidation. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources than we do. Our sales may be harmed to the extent we are not able to compete successfully against such wine or alternative beverage producers’ costs. There can be no assurance that in the future we will be able to successfully compete with our current competitors or that it will not face greater competition from other wineries and beverage manufacturers. 12 We compete for shelf space in retail stores and for marketing focus by our independent distributors, most of whom carry extensive product portfolios In Oregon, we sell our products principally through self-distribution to retail outlets including grocery stores, package liquor stores, club and discount stores and restaurants. Outside of Oregon, we sell our products primarily through independent distributors and brokers for resale to retail outlets, restaurants, hotels and private clubs across the United States and in some overseas markets. Sales to distributors are expected to continue to represent a substantial portion of our net revenues in the future. A change in our relationship with any of our significant distributors or a change in our ability to compete with distributors in Oregon for shelf space could harm our business and reduce our sales. The laws and regulations of several states prohibit changes of distributors, except under certain limited circumstances, making it difficult to terminate a distributor for poor performance without reasonable cause, as defined by applicable statutes. Any difficulty or inability to replace distributors, poor performance of our major distributors or our inability to collect accounts receivable from our major distributors could harm our business. There can be no assurance that the distributors and retailers we use will continue to purchase our products or provide our products with adequate levels of promotional support. Consolidation at the retail tier, among club and chain grocery stores in particular, can be expected to heighten competitive pressure to increase marketing and sales spending or constrain or reduce prices. Fluctuations in quantity and quality of grape supply could adversely affect us A shortage in our supply of quality grapes may result from a variety of factors that determine the quality and quantity of our grape supply, including weather conditions, pruning methods, diseases and pests and the number of vines producing grapes. Any shortage in our grape production could cause a reduction in the amount of wine we are able to produce, which could reduce our sales and adversely impact our results from operations. Factors that reduce the quantity of our grapes may also reduce their quality, which in turn could reduce the quality or amount of wine we produce. Deterioration in the quality of our wines could harm our brand name and could reduce our sales and adversely impact our results of operations. Contamination of our wines would harm our business We are subject to certain hazards and product liability risks, such as potential contamination, through tampering or otherwise, of ingredients or products. Contamination of any of our wines could cause us to destroy our wine held in inventory and could cause the need for a product recall, which could significantly damage our reputation for product quality. We maintain insurance against certain of these kinds of risks, and others, under various insurance policies. However, our insurance may not be adequate or may not continue to be available at a price or on terms that are satisfactory to us and this insurance may not be adequate to cover any resulting liability. A reduction in consumer demand for premium wines could harm our business There have been periods in the past in which there were substantial declines in the overall per capita consumption of beverage alcohol products in the United States and other markets in which we participate. A limited or general decline in consumption in one or more of our product categories could occur in the future due to a variety of factors, including: a general decline in economic conditions; increased concern about the health consequences of consuming beverage alcohol products and about drinking and driving; a trend toward a healthier diet including lighter, lower calorie beverages such as diet soft drinks, juices and water products; the increased activity of anti-alcohol consumer groups; and increased federal, state or foreign excise and other taxes on beverage alcohol products. The competitive position of our products could also be affected adversely by any failure to achieve consistent, reliable quality in the product or service levels to customers. Changes in consumer spending could have a negative impact on our financial condition and business results Wine sales depend upon a number of factors related to the level of consumer spending, including the general state of the economy, federal and state income tax rates, deductibility of business entertainment expenses under federal and state tax laws, and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Changes in consumer spending in these and other regions can affect both the quantity and the price of wines that customers are willing to purchase at restaurants or through retail outlets. Reduced consumer confidence and spending may result in reduced demand for our products, limitations on our ability to increase prices and increased levels of selling and promotional expenses. This, in turn, may have a considerable negative impact upon our sales and profit margins. 13 Increased regulation could adversely affect us The wine industry is subject to extensive regulation by the Federal Alcohol Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (“TTB”) and various foreign agencies, state liquor authorities, such as the Oregon Liquor Control Commission (“OLCC”), and local authorities. These regulations and laws dictate such matters as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, permitted distribution channels, permitted and required labeling, and advertising and relations with wholesalers and retailers. Any expansion of our existing facilities or development of new vineyards or wineries may be limited by present and future zoning ordinances, environmental restrictions and other legal requirements. In addition, new regulations or requirements or increases in excise taxes, income taxes, property and sales taxes or international tariffs, could affect our financial condition or results of operations. Recently, many states have considered proposals to increase, and some of these states have increased, state alcohol excise taxes. New or revised regulations or increased licensing fees, requirements or taxes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance that new or revised regulations or increased licensing fees and requirements will not have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations and our cash flows. Our common stock is thinly traded, and therefore not as liquid as other investments The trading volume of our common stock on NASDAQ is consistently “thin,” in that there is not a great deal of trading activity on a daily basis. Because the average active trading volume is thin, there is less opportunity for shareholders to sell their shares of our common stock on the open market, resulting in the common stock being less liquid than common stock in other publicly traded companies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 