Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference herein contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which include information relating to future events, future financial performance, strategies, expectations, competitive environment, regulation and availability of resources. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as verbal forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding: regulatory approval for our products; market demand for our products and competition; our dependence on licensees and distributors; impact of technological changes on our products; results of operations or liquidity; statements concerning projections, predictions, expectations, estimates or forecasts as to our business, financial and operational results and future economic performance; and statements of management’s goals and objectives and other similar expressions. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “predicts,” “potential,” “continue,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “future,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” and similar expressions, as well as statements in future tense, identify forward-looking statements. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Many events beyond our control may determine whether results we anticipate will be achieved. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Form 10-Q and 8-K reports to the SEC. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business. These factors individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. 19 Table of Contents Our business involves significant risks which are described below. Limited product development activities; our product development efforts may not result in commercial products. We intend to continue to pursue USFDA and SFDA approval of DR-70® and licensing of our combination immunogene therapy technology. Due to limited cash resources, we are limited in the number of additional products we can develop at this time. Successful cancer detection and treatment product development is highly uncertain, and very few research and development projects produce a commercial product. Product candidates like DR-70® or the combination immunogene therapy technology that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in early animal or human clinical trials, may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: • the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results even though it demonstrated positive preclinical trial results; • the product candidate was not effective in treating a specified condition or illness; • the product candidate had harmful side effects on humans; • the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the USFDA or SFDA, did not approve our product candidate for an intended use; • the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture and commercialize; and • the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing therapeutics. Of course, there may be other factors that prevent us from marketing a product including, but not limited to, our limited cash resources. We cannot guarantee we will be able to produce commercially successful products. Further, clinical trial results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations by scientists, medical personnel, regulatory personnel, statisticians and others, which may delay, limit or prevent further clinical development or regulatory approvals of a product candidate. Also, the length of time that it takes for us to complete clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval for product marketing may vary by product and by the intended use of a product. We cannot predict the length of time to complete necessary clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval. Our cash position as of March 20, 2008 of approximately $4,875,000 is not sufficient to conduct significant clinical trials for DR-70® or to market our products internationally by ourselves. With or without additional financing (or cash generated from our pharmaceutical operations in China), we will likely engage outside distributors and license our products to others, although there can be no assurances that our products can be successfully licensed. Our operations in China involve significant risk. JJB and YYB operate as WFOEs in China. Risks associated with operating as a WFOE include unlimited liability for claims arising from operations in China and potentially less favorable treatment from governmental agencies in China than JJB and YYB would receive if JJB and YYB operated through a joint venture with a Chinese partner. JJB and YYB are subject to the Pharmaceutical Administrative Law, which governs the licensing, manufacture, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products in China and sets penalty provisions for violations of provisions of the Pharmaceutical Administrative Law. Compliance with changes in law may require us to incur additional expenditures which could have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. As in the case of JJB, the Chinese government has the right to annex or take facilities it deems necessary. Currently, a portion of JJB’s facility that produces large and small volume parenteral solutions has been identified for annexation by the Chinese Military Department. JJB has objected to the Chinese Military Department’s annexation. The outcome of this event cannot be predicted at this time, but if the Chinese government takes this facility, although we expect that JJB will be compensated fairly for the facility, JJB will may have to spend significant time and resources finding another location and restarting those operations in another area. In addition, such new location may need to obtain GMP certification. Such annexation, or the threat of such annexation, may negatively impact our results of operation and financial condition. The value of the RMB fluctuates and is subject to changes in China’s political and economic conditions. Historically, the Chinese government has benchmarked the RMB exchange ratio against the U.S. dollar, thereby mitigating the associated foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk; however, no assurances can be given that the risks related to currency deviations of the RMB will not increase in the future. Additionally, the RMB is not freely convertible into foreign currency and all foreign exchange transactions must take place through authorized institutions. 20 Table of Contents We may not be able to continue to operate our business if we are unable to attract additional operating capital. The current level of our revenues is not sufficient to finance all of our intended operations on a long-term basis. Currently, our operations do not produce sufficient cash to offset the cash drain of the USFDA approval process for DR-70® and our other general operating and administrative expenses. Accordingly, our business and operations are substantially dependent on our ability to raise additional working capital to: (i) finance the costs of USFDA approval of DR-70® in the U.S. and SFDA in China; (ii) supply additional working capital to JPI for expansion of manufacturing capabilities for new and existing products; and (iii) fund ongoing selling, general and administrative expenses of our business. As of December 31, 2007, we had warrants outstanding that are currently exercisable for up to an aggregate of 4,528,668 shares of our common stock at a weighted-average exercise price of $3.98 per share. Included within that amount are (i) warrants to purchase a total of 367,137 shares (including broker warrants) which were issued at an average exercise price of $5.51 per share in our December 2006 private placement, (ii) warrants to purchase a total of 1,205,632 shares at an average exercise price of $3.68 per share which were issued in April and May of 2007, and (iii) warrants to purchase a total of 1,204,506 shares which were issued at an average exercise price of $4.74 per share in our most recent private placement conducted in November 2007. An additional 161,813 warrants were issued in February 2008 in connection with a private placement. In addition, any future equity financing may involve substantial dilution to our stockholders. At March 20, 2008, we had cash on hand of approximately $4,875,000 and cash is being depleted at the rate of approximately $425,000 per month. Assuming (i) the current level of revenue from the sale of DR-70® kits does not increase in the near future, (ii) we do not require new cancer samples to satisfy the USFDA concerns on our pending 510(k) application, (iii) we do not conduct any full scale clinical trials for DR-70 ® or our combination immunogene therapy technology in the U.S. or China, (iv) JPI generates sufficient cash to meet or exceed its cash requirements, and (v) no outstanding warrants are exercised, the amount of cash on hand is expected to be sufficient to meet our projected operating expenses through March, 2009. Our independent registered public accounting firm has included a going concern paragraph in their report on our financial statements. While our independent registered public accounting firm expressed an unqualified opinion on our consolidated financial statements, our independent registered public accounting firm did include an explanatory paragraph indicating that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern due to our working capital deficit and continuing net losses. Our ability to continue as an operating entity currently depends, in large measure, upon our ability to generate additional capital resources. In light of this situation, it is not likely that we will be able to raise equity. While we seek ways to continue to operate by securing additional financing resources or alliances or other partnership agreements, we do not at this time have any commitments or agreements that provide for additional capital resources. Our financial condition and the going concern emphasis paragraph may also make it more difficult for us to maintain existing customer relationships and to initiate and secure new customer relationships. Our current products cannot be sold in certain countries if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval. We conduct research and clinical trials and we manufacture, distribute and market our products for their approved indications. These activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal governmental authorities in the U.S., such as the USFDA and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (formerly Health Care Financing Administration) and the SFDA in China as well as by certain foreign countries, including some in the European Union. Currently, we (or our distributors) are required in the U.S. and in foreign countries to obtain approval from those countries’ regulatory authorities before we can market and sell our products in those countries. Obtaining regulatory approval is costly and may take many years, and after it is obtained, it remains costly to maintain. The USFDA and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion to terminate clinical trials, require additional testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and mandate product withdrawals. In addition, later discovery of unknown problems with our products or manufacturing processes could 21 Table of Contents result in restrictions on such products and manufacturing processes, including potential withdrawal of the products from the market. If regulatory authorities determine that we have violated regulations or if they restrict, suspend or revoke our prior approvals, they could prohibit us from manufacturing or selling our products until we comply, or indefinitely. USFDA approval for marketing DR-70® is not assured. On November 13, 2007, we received a letter of deficiency noting four areas of concern with our pending 510(k) application for our DR-70® test kit and the application was put on hold pending the USFDA’s receipt of our response to the USFDA’s concerns. We were granted an extension to May 12, 2008 to respond in full. While we intend to revise our application to address the USFDA’s concerns, the USFDA’s response to the revised application cannot be anticipated and no assurances can be given that we will ever receive USFDA clearance for the commercial sale of DR-70® in the U.S. Furthermore, if USFDA approval is granted, although the approval has no expiration date, if we are found in violation, the USFDA may impose fines, terminate the approval or seize our products, at its discretion. In addition, the loss of previously received approvals, or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future prospects will be negatively impacted if we are unsuccessful in pending litigation over the combination immunogene therapy technology. As noted above, we are engaged in litigation with AcuVector and with the Governors of the University of Alberta over our combination immunogene therapy technology. Although theses cases are still in the early stages of discovery, we believe they are without merit and that we will receive a favorable judgment in both. However, if either AcuVector or the University is successful in their claims, we may be liable for substantial damages, our rights to the technology will be adversely affected, and our future prospects for exploiting or licensing the combination immunogene therapy technology will be significantly impaired. The value of intangible assets may not be equal to their carrying values. One of our intangible assets includes the combination immunogene therapy technology, which we acquired from Dr. Chang in August 2001. We also purchased certain intangible assets in our acquisition of JPI. Whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, we are required to evaluate the carrying value of such intangibles, including the related amortization periods. Whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an intangible asset may not be recoverable, we determine whether there has been impairment by comparing the anticipated undiscounted cash flows from the operation and eventual disposition of the product line with its carrying value. If the undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value, the amount of the impairment, if any, will be determined by comparing the carrying value of each intangible asset with its fair value. Fair value is generally based on either a discounted cash flows analysis or market analysis. Future operating income is based on various assumptions, including regulatory approvals, patents being granted, and the type and nature of competing products. Patent approval for eight original claims related to the combination immunogene therapy technology was obtained in May 2004 and a continuation patent application was filed in 2004 for a number of additional claims. No regulatory approval has been requested for our combination immunogene therapy technology and we do not have the funds to conduct the clinical trials which would be required to obtain regulatory approval for our combination immunogene therapy technology. Accordingly, we are seeking a strategic partner to license the combination immunogene therapy technology from us. If we cannot attract a large pharmaceutical company to license our combination immunogene therapy technology and conduct the trials required to obtain regulatory approval, or if regulatory approvals or patents are not obtained or are substantially delayed, or other competing technologies are developed and obtain general market acceptance, or market conditions otherwise change, our combination immunogene therapy and other intangible technology may have a substantially reduced value, which could be material. As intangible assets represent a substantial portion of assets in our consolidated balance sheet, any substantial deterioration of value would significantly impact our reported consolidated financial position and our reported consolidated operating results. 22 Table of Contents If our intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or if we fail to prevail in future intellectual property litigation, our business could be adversely affected. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. To date, there has emerged no consistent policy regarding breadth of claims allowed in such companies’ patents. Third parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates and technologies. In addition, our patent positions might not protect us against competitors with similar products or technologies because competing products or technologies may not infringe our patents. We face substantial competition, and others may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products before or more successfully than we do. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our products compete with other products or treatments for diseases for which our products may be indicated. Additionally, some of our competitors’ market products or are actively engaged in research and development in areas where we are developing product candidates. Large pharmaceutical corporations have greater clinical, research, regulatory and marketing resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may have technical or competitive advantages over us for the development of technologies and processes. These resources may make it difficult for us to compete with them to successfully discover, develop and market new products. We have limited sales of DR-70® and are reliant on our distributors for sales of our products. Prior to the acquisition of JPI, virtually all of our operating revenues have come from sales to two distributors in foreign countries of DR-70® kits and from sales to a few domestic customers of our OEM products. For the year ended December 31, 2007, almost all of our revenues were derived from sales of DR-70® and we had only nominal sales of our OEM products. Historically, we have not received any substantial orders from any of our customers or distributors of DR-70® or our OEM products. Moreover, none of our distributors or customers is contractually required to buy any specific number of DR-70® kits or OEM products from us. Accordingly, based upon this fact, historical sales, and the uncertainty of USFDA approval for sale of DR-70® in the U.S., any projection of future orders or sales of DR-70® kits or OEM products is unreliable. In addition, the amount of DR-70® purchased by our distributors or customers can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including their budget cycles and the amount of funds available to them for product promotion and marketing. JPI is reliant on its distributors for sales of its products. Most of JPI’s products are sold to distributors. JPI’s distributors are not required to purchase any minimum quantity of products; however, many of JPI’s distribution agreements are subject to termination and cancellation if minimum quantities of specified products are not purchased by the distributors. JPI has never terminated any distributor for failure to meet the minimum quantity sales targets. We are subject to risks associated with our foreign distributors. Our business strategy includes the continued dependence on foreign distributors for our DR-70® product and local distributors in China for JPI’s products. To date, we have not been successful in generating a significant increase in sales for DR-70® through distribution channels in existing markets or in developing distribution channels in new markets. We are also subject to the risks associated with our distributor’s operations, including: (i) fluctuations in currency exchange rates; (ii) compliance with local laws and other regulatory requirements; (iii) restrictions on the repatriation of funds; (iv) inflationary conditions; (v) political and economic instability; (vi) war or other hostilities; (vii) overlap of tax structures; and (viii) expropriation or nationalization of assets. The inability to manage these and other risks effectively could adversely affect our business. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any earnings to support our growth strategy and do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. 23 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with the rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act related to accounting controls and procedures or if material weaknesses or other deficiencies are discovered in our internal accounting procedures, our stock price could decline significantly. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting commencing December 31, 2007 and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the year ending December 31, 2009. Management has concluded that the consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007,fairly present in all material respects our financial condition, results in operations and cash flows for the period ended December 31, 2007 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and other deficiencies as a result of our assessment of internal controls over financial reporting at December 31, 2007. As a result, our investors could lose confidence in us, which could result in a decline in our stock price. We are taking steps to remediate our material weaknesses, as described in Item 9A. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude in the future that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. In addition, we cannot be certain that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls will not be discovered in the future. Loss of our listing on the American Stock Exchange could adversely affect the marketability and price of our shares. We are not currently in compliance with the standards for continued listing on AMEX, although AMEX has not yet taken any action to delist our securities. Unless we meet the standards for continued listing, AMEX could at any time (i) commence a proceeding to delist our securities or (ii) include us in the list of companies that are not in compliance with AMEX’s continued listing standards and require that the indicator “.BC” be added as an extension to our symbol which will be transmitted with any quotation or trade of our shares. In June 2006, we submitted a plan to become compliant with AMEX’s continued listing standards which plan included the acquisition of JPI. The JPI acquisition closed on September 28, 2006. On November 10, 2006 AMEX advised us that the plan period would remain open until we have been able to demonstrate compliance with the continued listing standards for two consecutive fiscal quarters. As of the date hereof, AMEX has not yet issued its final letter stating that we are in compliance with the Continued Listing Standards. Delisting from AMEX may impact our ability to raise capital in the future. The loss of listing on AMEX could adversely affect the marketability and/or price of our shares because some brokers and other traders might refrain from purchasing or trading our shares if we were delisted or if they perceived that a delisting might occur in the near future. Additionally, delisting from AMEX may adversely impact our ability to raise capital in the future. Our stock price is volatile, which could adversely affect your investment. Our stock price, like that of other international bio-pharma cancer diagnostic and treatment companies, is highly volatile. Our stock price may be affected by such factors as: • clinical trial results; • product development announcements by us or our competitors; • regulatory matters; • announcements in the scientific and research community; 24 Table of Contents • intellectual property and legal matters; • broader industry and market trends unrelated to our performance; • economic markets in Asia; and • competition in local Chinese markets where we sell JPI’s product. In addition, if our revenues or operating results in any period fail to meet the investment community’s expectations, there could be an immediate adverse impact on our stock price. We have limited product liability insurance. We currently produce products for clinical studies and for investigational purposes. We are producing our products in commercial sale quantities, which will increase as we receive various regulatory approvals in the future. There can be no assurance, however, that users will not claim that effects other than those intended may result from our products, including, but not limited to claims alleged to be related to incorrect diagnoses leading to improper or lack of treatment in reliance on test results. In the event that liability claims arise out of allegations of defects in the design or manufacture of our products, one or more claims for damages may require the expenditure of funds in defense of such claims or one or more substantial awards of damages against us, and may have a material adverse effect on us by reason of our inability to defend against or pay such claims. We carry product liability insurance for any such claims, but only in an amount equal to $2,000,000 per occurrence, and $2,000,000 aggregate liability, which may be insufficient to cover all claims that may be made against us. Employees As of March 20, 2008, we had five full-time employees in the U.S. and approximately 310 full time employees in China. We supplement our permanent staff with temporary personnel. Our employees are neither represented by a union nor subject to a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our relations with our employees to be favorable. We have entered into certain agreements with our employees regarding their services. We utilize the services of consultants for research, testing, regulatory and legal compliance, and other services. 