ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - continued The issuance of additional shares of our preferred stock or common stock in the future could adversely affect holders of common stock. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by any preferred stock we may issue. Our board of directors is authorized to issue additional classes or series of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. This includes the power to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over common stock with respect to the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the business and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders of the common stock or the market price of the common stock could be adversely affected. The provisions in our articles of incorporation, our by-laws and Oregon law could delay or deter tender offers or takeover attempts that may offer a premium for our common stock. Certain provisions in our articles of incorporation, our by-laws and Oregon law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if that transaction could be beneficial to stockholders. These impediments include, but are not limited to; the classification of our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms, which makes it more difficult to quickly replace board members; the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock with rights as it deems appropriate without stockholder approval; a provision that special meetings of our board of directors may be called only by our chief executive officer or at the request of holders of not less than half of all outstanding shares of our common stock; a provision that any member of the Company’s board of directors (the “Board”), or the entire Board, may be removed from office only for cause and; a provision that our stockholders comply with advance-notice provisions to bring director nominations or other matters before meetings of our stockholders. The Board may implement other changes that further limit the potential for tender offers or takeover attempts. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 