D. Risk factors This document contains certain forward-looking statements, which involve risk and uncertainty as they relate to future events and circumstances. Our business is affected by a number of factors, not all of which are in Tomkins’ control. This section highlights specific areas where Tomkins is particularly sensitive to business risk. Our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks not currently known to us, or risks that we currently regard as immaterial could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. As a part of the planning, control and performance management framework of the Group, each business considers strategic, operational, commercial and financial risks and identifies risk mitigation actions. The Group has categorized the foregoing risks as those relating to: • the markets within which the Group operates; • the competitive position of the Group and its businesses; and • the financial position of the Group Risk can be considered either as downside risk, the risk that something can go wrong and result in a financial loss or financial exposure for the Group, or volatility risk. Volatility risk is the risk associated with uncertainty, which means there may be an opportunity for financial gain as well as potential for loss. Risks relating to the markets within which the Group operates There are a number of risks in the markets in which we operate which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Cyclical nature of the markets – Our sales are to markets where the demand is ultimately affected by consumer spending and consumer preferences. Improvement in vehicle component life – The greater quality, performance and reliability of the components we manufacture improves service life and could affect demand in the aftermarket business segment Regulatory environment – In the industries in which we operate we are subject to a variety of environmental regulations, particularly relating to waste water discharges, air emissions, solid waste management and hazardous chemical disposal. Operations in foreign and emerging markets – We operate principally in the automotive, industrial and construction related markets in a number of geographic regions of the world, including emerging markets. Operations in emerging markets may present additional risks. Customer demand – Our Industrial & Automotive business group is directly impacted by global automotive production. The automotive industry is characterized by overcapacity and fierce competition. In North America it is also affected by significant pension and healthcare liabilities. North American automobile manufacturers have recently announced production cuts for a number of platforms. Risks relating to the competitive position of the Group and its businesses There are a number of risks to our competitive position which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition of results of operations. Industry consolidation may result in more powerful competitors and fewer customers – Some of our customers and some of our competitors in a number of our markets, especially in the automotive aftermarket, and to a lesser extent in the markets of the Air Systems Components group, are consolidating to achieve greater scale or market share. Such changes could affect our customers and their relationship with us. As our customers become larger and more concentrated, they could exert pricing pressure on all suppliers, including ourselves. Revenues are generated from 10 major customers in the Industrial & Automotive business – 24.4 percent of our total revenues come from the top ten customers of our Industrial & Automotive business. Price reductions by automotive customers – 21.1 percent of our sales are to original equipment manufacturers. It is normal practice for such customers to seek reductions in their costs from their suppliers over the duration of any committed supply arrangement. To meet any such requests for price reductions whilst maintaining our profit margins, we have to achieve corresponding cost savings in our business by strategic sourcing of raw materials and by improving production and manufacturing efficiencies. 5 Table of Contents Increased competition from low cost producers – Manufacturers in the developed economies of the world are increasingly facing competition from low cost sources in the developing economies of the world. Increasing raw material and energy costs – Steel, aluminum, oil based resins and energy are a significant part of our cost structure and increases in these costs may impact competitiveness. Reliance on certain raw materials and suppliers of key components – Our productive processes do require certain raw materials and components and arrangements are in place to ensure continuity of supply. Failure to obtain adequate and timely supplies may impact our ability to service our customers. Dependence on our strong relationships with manufacturers’ representatives, distributors and wholesalers – Deterioration in the relationships with manufacturers’ representatives, distributors and wholesalers or a change in our products’ route to market could affect sales. Product liability claims due to the nature of our products – We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that a failure of a product results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury, property damage or consequential loss. Technological changes – The markets for our products and services are characterized by evolving industry standards and changing technology which may lead to commoditization of our products. Continual development of advanced technologies for new products and product enhancements is an important way in which we maintain acceptable pricing levels. Dependence on the continued operation of our manufacturing facilities – Our manufacturing facilities are located principally in the United States and Europe. A major disruption of our critical manufacturing facilities could result in significant interruption of our business and potential loss of customers and sales. Capacity, reliability and security of our computer hardware, software and telecommunications infrastructure – We currently secure our networks by means of back up, hardware, virus protection and other measures, but any systems interruption could lead to a reduction in performance or loss of services. A breach of network security could result in reduced revenues and could have an adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition or results from operations. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption caused by human error, network failure, natural disasters, sabotage, computer viruses and similar disruptive events. Intellectual property rights – Our proprietary technology is protected by patents and trade secrets which could be at risk if: • competitors are able to develop similar technology independently; • our patent applications are not approved; • steps taken to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property are not successful; or • we do not adequately protect our intellectual property. Trade unions or other employment organizations – Some of our employees are members of trade unions and over many years we have been able to maintain successful relationships with the unions and employment organizations. Financial Risks There are certain financial risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Cash flow from subsidiaries – Tomkins plc is a holding company with no independent operations or significant assets other than investments in, and advances to, subsidiaries. Accordingly, it depends upon the receipt of sufficient funds from its subsidiaries to meet its obligations, including its ability to repay any amounts it borrows under its Medium Term Note program or to pay its dividends. The ability of Tomkins plc to access that cash flow may be limited in some circumstances. Pension plans – We operate both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans, the majority of which are in the United States of America and the United Kingdom. The schemes were in deficit by $315.2 million as at 31 December 2005. Deterioration in asset prices or changes to long-term interest rates could lead to an increase in the deficit or give rise to an additional funding requirement. Health care and workers compensation – Healthcare and workers compensation are provided by certain US subsidiaries to current and former employees. Healthcare costs in the USA are increasing at a faster rate than general cost inflation and these cost increases have to be absorbed in the business. Tax cash outflows – Tomkins operates within multiple tax jurisdictions and is subject to audit in those jurisdictions. These audits can involve complex issues, which may require an extended period of time for resolution. Although provision has been made for such issues the ultimate resolution may result in tax cash outflows. Funding growth – We may require capital to expand our business, implement our strategic initiatives and remain competitive. At present, our established sources of funding are through equity, corporate bond markets (through the Medium Term Note program) bank debt and cash flow from operations. We believe that the sources of funding currently available will be sufficient to fund our operations. If our plans or assumptions regarding our funding requirements change, however, we may need to seek other sources of financing, such as additional lines of credit with commercial banks or vendors or public financing, or to renegotiate existing bank facilities. Bondholders’ rights – We have a Euro Medium Term Note Program under which Tomkins may issue bonds. Our bondholders have the right to require us to redeem our outstanding bonds at par, in the event of a change of control of Tomkins plc and also in the event that our credit rating falls below investment grade as a result of us making either acquisitions or disposals that comprise more than 25% of the group’s operating profits in a twelve calendar month period. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates – We have manufacturing facilities in, and sell products to, many countries worldwide. The principal currencies in which we trade are US dollars, Canadian dollars, Euros and pounds sterling. Currency exchange movements can give rise to the following risks: • Transaction risk – this arises where sales or purchases are denominated in foreign currencies and exchange rates can change between entering into a purchase or sale commitment and completing the transaction; • Translation risk – this arises where the currency in which the results of an entity are reported differs from the underlying currency in which business is transacted; and • Economic risk – this arises where the manufacturing cost base of a business is denominated in a currency different from the currency of the market into which the products are sold. 6 Table of Contents Risks related to the securities market and ownership of ADSs and registered shares Holders of ADSs may be restricted in their ability to exercise voting rights – Holders of ADSs will generally have the right under the deposit agreement to instruct the Depositary to exercise their voting rights for the registered shares represented by ADSs. At our request, the Depositary will mail to holders of ADSs any notice of any shareholders’ meeting received from us together with information explaining how to instruct the Depositary to exercise the voting rights of the securities represented by ADSs. If the Depositary receives voting instructions for a holder of ADSs on a timely basis, it is obligated to endeavor to vote the securities representing the holder’s ADSs in accordance with those voting instructions. The ability of the Depositary to carry out voting instructions, however, may be limited by practical limitations, such as time zone differences and delays in mailing. ADS holders may be unable to participate in rights offerings and similar transactions in the future – US securities laws may restrict the ability of US persons who hold ADSs to participate in certain rights offerings or share or warrant dividend alternatives which we may undertake in the future in the event we are unable to, or choose not to, register those securities under the US securities laws and are unable to rely on an exemption from registration under these laws. If we issue any securities of this nature in the future, we may issue such securities to the Depositary for the ADSs, which may sell those securities for the benefit of the holders of the ADSs. We cannot offer any assurance as to the value, if any, the Depositary would receive upon the sale of those securities. 7 Table of Contents 