Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves significant risks which are described below. Limited product development activities; our product development efforts may not result in commercial products. We intend to continue to pursue SFDA approval of the ONKO-SUREtm test kit and licensing of our CIT technology. Due to limited cash resources, we are limited in the number of additional products we can develop at this time. Successful cancer detection and treatment product development is highly uncertain, and very few research and development projects produce a commercial product. Product candidates like the ONKO-SUREtm test kit or the CIT technology that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in early animal or human clinical trials, may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: • the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results even though it demonstrated positive preclinical trial results; • the product candidate was not effective in treating a specified condition or illness; • the product candidate had harmful side effects on humans; • the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the SFDA, did not approve our product candidate for an intended use; • the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture and commercialize; and • the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing therapeutics. Of course, there may be other factors that prevent us from marketing a product including, but not limited to, our limited cash resources. We cannot guarantee we will be able to produce commercially successful products. Further, clinical trial results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations by scientists, medical personnel, regulatory personnel, statisticians and others, which may delay, limit or prevent further clinical development or regulatory approvals of a product candidate. Also, the length of time that it takes for us to complete clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval in multiple jurisdictions for a product varies by jurisdiction and by product. We cannot predict the length of time to complete necessary clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval. Our operations in China involve significant risk. JPI’s operations in China are conducted as WFOEs in China. Risks associated with operating as a WFOE include unlimited liability for claims arising from operations in China and potentially less favorable treatment from governmental agencies in China than if operated through a joint venture with a Chinese partner. JPI’s Chinese operations are subject to the Pharmaceutical Administrative Law, which governs the licensing, manufacture, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products in China and sets penalty provisions for violations of provisions of the Pharmaceutical Administrative Law. Compliance with changes in law may require JPI to incur additional expenditures or could impose additional regulation on the prices charged for our pharmaceutical products, which could have a material impact on JPI’s consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows and ultimately impair our investment in JPI. As in the case of JJB, the Chinese government has the right to annex or take facilities it deems necessary. Currently, a portion of JJB’s facility that produces large and small volume parenteral solutions has been identified for annexation by the Chinese Military Department. The outcome of this event cannot be predicted at this time, but 14 Table of Contents if the Chinese government takes this facility, although JPI expects that JJB will be compensated fairly for the facility, JJB will have to spend significant time and resources finding another location and restarting those operations in another area. JPI intends to consolidate JJB and any operations related to product lines retained after the sale of YYB in a single facility in a new location. Such new location will need to obtain GMP certification. Such annexation, or the threat of such annexation, may negatively impact JPI’s results of operation and financial condition and ultimately impair our investment in JPI. The value of the RMB fluctuates and is subject to changes in China’s political and economic conditions. Historically, the Chinese government has benchmarked the RMB exchange ratio against the U.S. dollar, thereby mitigating the associated foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk; however, no assurances can be given that the risks related to currency deviations of the RMB will not increase in the future. Additionally, the RMB is not freely convertible into foreign currency and all foreign exchange transactions must take place through authorized institutions. We may not be able to continue to operate our business if we are unable to attract additional operating capital. The current level of our revenues is not sufficient to finance all of our operations on a long-term basis. In the past, we managed our cash generated from operations in China and transferred funds previously advanced to JPI to meet our U.S. operating cash needs. Due to the deconsolidation, now more than ever we continue to attempt to raise additional debt or equity financing as our operations do not produce sufficient cash to offset the cash drain of growth in pharmaceutical sales and our general operating and administrative expenses. Accordingly, our business and operations are substantially dependent on our ability to raise additional capital to: (i) supply working capital for the expansion of sales and the costs of marketing of our ONKO — SUREtm cancer test; and (ii) fund ongoing selling, general and administrative expenses of our business. If we do not receive additional financing, the Company will have to restrict or discontinue certain operations in the U.S. No assurances can be given that we will be able to close a financing on favorable terms, or at all. At April 14, 2010, we had cash on hand in the U.S. of approximately $6.4 million. Our US operations require approximately $300,000 per month to fund the costs associated with our financing activities; SEC and NYSE reporting; legal and accounting expenses of being a public company; other general administrative expenses; research and development, regulatory compliance, and distribution activities related to ONKO-SUREtm test kit; the operation of a USFDA approved pharmaceutical manufacturing facility; the development of international distribution of the Company’s planned HPE-based cosmetics product line; and compensation of executive management in the US. Our independent registered public accounting firm has included a going concern paragraph in their report on our financial statements. While our independent registered public accounting firm expressed an unqualified opinion on our consolidated financial statements, our independent registered public accounting firm did include an explanatory paragraph indicating that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern due to our significant operating loss in 2009, our negative cash flows from operations through December 31, 2009 and our accumulated deficit at December 31, 2009. Our ability to continue as an operating entity currently depends, in large measure, upon our ability to generate additional capital resources. In light of this situation, it is not likely that we will be able to raise equity. While we seek ways to continue to operate by securing additional financing resources or alliances or other partnership agreements, we do not at this time have any commitments or agreements that provide for additional capital resources. Our financial condition and the going concern emphasis paragraph may also make it more difficult for us to maintain existing customer relationships and to initiate and secure new customer relationships. Our current products cannot be sold in certain countries if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval. We manufacture, distribute and market our products for their approved indications. These activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal governmental authorities in the U.S., such as the USFDA and 15 Table of Contents the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (formerly Health Care Financing Administration) and the SFDA in China as well as by certain foreign countries, including some in the European Union. Currently, we (or our distributors) are required in the U.S. and in foreign countries to obtain approval from those countries’ regulatory authorities before we can market and sell our products in those countries. Obtaining regulatory approval is costly and may take many years, and after it is obtained, it remains costly to maintain. The USFDA and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion to terminate any clinical trials, require additional testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and mandate product withdrawals. In addition, later discovery of unknown problems with our products or manufacturing processes could result in restrictions on such products and manufacturing processes, including potential withdrawal of the products from the market. If regulatory authorities determine that we have violated regulations or if they restrict, suspend or revoke our prior approvals, they could prohibit us from manufacturing or selling our products until we comply, or indefinitely. Our future prospects will be negatively impacted if we are unsuccessful in pending litigation over the CIT technology. As noted above, we are engaged in litigation with AcuVector and with the Governors of the University of Alberta over our CIT technology. We believe they both actions are without merit. We believe that we will be able to settle this case during the second quarter of 2010. Yet, if either AcuVector or the University is successful in their claims, we may be liable for substantial damages, our rights to the technology will be adversely affected, and our future prospects for exploiting or licensing the CIT technology will be significantly impaired. The value of intangible assets may not be equal to their carrying values. One of our intangible assets includes the CIT technology, which we acquired from Dr. Chang in August 2001. Whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, we are required to evaluate the carrying value of such intangibles, including the related amortization periods. Whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an intangible asset may not be recoverable, we determine whether there has been impairment by comparing the anticipated undiscounted cash flows from the operation and eventual disposition of the product line with its carrying value. If the undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value, the amount of the impairment, if any, will be determined by comparing the carrying value of each intangible asset with its fair value. Fair value is generally based on either a discounted cash flows analysis or market analysis. Future operating income is based on various assumptions, including regulatory approvals, patents being granted, and the type and nature of competing products. Patent approval for eight original claims related to the CIT technology was obtained in May 2004 and a continuation patent application was filed in 2004 for a number of additional claims. No regulatory approval has been requested for our CIT technology and we may not have the funds to conduct the clinical trials which would be required to obtain regulatory approval for our CIT technology. Accordingly, we entered into a five year collaboration agreement to create one or more clinical trials. That would lead to gaining governmental approval in the country of India. If our CIT technology is unable to pass the clinical trials required to obtain regulatory approval, or if regulatory approvals or patents are not obtained or are substantially delayed, or other competing technologies are developed and obtain general market acceptance, or market conditions otherwise change, our CIT technology and other intangible technology may have a substantially reduced value, which could be material. As intangible assets represent a substantial portion of assets in our consolidated balance sheet, any substantial deterioration of value would significantly impact our reported consolidated financial position and our reported consolidated operating results. If our intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or if we fail to prevail in future intellectual property litigation, our business could be adversely affected. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. To date, there has emerged no consistent policy regarding breadth of claims allowed in such companies’ patents. Third parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates and technologies. In addition, our patent positions might not protect us against competitors with similar products or technologies because competing products or technologies may not infringe our patents. 16 Table of Contents We face substantial competition, and others may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products before or more successfully than we do. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our products compete with other products or treatments for diseases for which our products may be indicated. Additionally, some of our competitors market products or are actively engaged in research and development in areas where we are developing product candidates. Large pharmaceutical corporations have greater clinical, research, regulatory and marketing resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may have technical or competitive advantages over us for the development of technologies and processes. These resources may make it difficult for us to compete with them to successfully discover, develop and market new products. We have limited sales of the ONKO-SUREtm test kit and are reliant on our distributors for sales of our products. Prior to the acquisition of JPI, virtually all of our operating revenues came from sales to two distributors in of the ONKO-SUREtm test kits in foreign countries and from sales to a few domestic customers of certain OEM products. For the year ended December 31, 2009, virtually all of our revenues in the U.S. were derived from sales of ONKO-SUREtm test kits. Historically, we have not received any substantial orders from any of our customers or distributors of ONKO-SUREtm test kits. Moreover, none of our distributors or customers is contractually required to buy any specific number of ONKO-SUREtm test kits from us. Accordingly, historical sales, any projection of future orders or sales of ONKO-SUREtm test kits is unreliable. In addition, the amount of ONKO-SUREtm test kits purchased by our distributors or customers can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including their budget cycles and the amount of funds available to them for product promotion and marketing. We have a significant amount of relatively short term indebtedness that is in default and we may be unable to satisfy our obligations to pay interest and principal thereon when due. As of April 14, 2010, we have the following approximate amounts of outstanding short term indebtedness: (i) JJB has $2.7 million in a secured loan with Chinese Industrial Bank of Commerce bearing interest at 5.3%-9.5% per annum which is due on or before December 31, 2009, which indebtedness is secured by a mortgage on one of the JJB factories in Shangro, China. Radient Pharma has no direct liability related to this debt; (ii) $83,000 unsecured bridge loan bearing interest at 12% per annum due October 9, 2009 and obligations under a consulting agreement aggregating $144,000 due to Cantone Research, Inc. and Cantone Asset Management, LLC (iii) Approximately $2.56 million in unsecured convertible notes bearing interest at 10% per annum due September 15, 2010; (iv) Approximately $3.6 million senior unsecured promissory notes bearing interest at 18% interest, payable quarterly in cash, portions of which principal are due in December 2010 and the balance of the principal is due at varying dates in early 2011; (v) Approximately $10.4 million represented by a series of 12% Convertible Notes which are due in March and April through 2012; We are attempting to obtain stockholder approval to restructure and convert a significant portion of the indebtedness referred to in (ii), (iii) and (iv) above; however, there can be no assurance that such indebtedness will be restructured, converted into equity or that the requisite approvals therefor can be obtained. Absent approval of our stockholders and the NYSE Amex to restructure these obligations or the receipt of a new financing or series of financings, our current operations do not generate sufficient cash to pay the interest and principal on these obligations when they become due. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pay these or other obligations which we may incur in the future. 17 Table of Contents We are subject to risks associated with our foreign distributors. Our business strategy includes the continued dependence on foreign distributors for our ONKO-SUREtm test kits. To date, we have not been successful in generating a significant increase in sales for ONKO-SUREtm test kits through distribution channels in existing markets or in developing distribution channels in new markets. We are also subject to the risks associated with our distributor’s operations, including: (i) fluctuations in currency exchange rates; (ii) compliance with local laws and other regulatory requirements; (iii) restrictions on the repatriation of funds; (iv) inflationary conditions; (v) political and economic instability; (vi) war or other hostilities; (vii) overlap of tax structures; and (viii) expropriation or nationalization of assets. The inability to manage these and other risks effectively could adversely affect our business. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any earnings to support our growth strategy and do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. If we fail to comply with the rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act related to accounting controls and procedures or if the material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal accounting procedures are not remediated, our stock price could decline significantly. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act required annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting commencing December 31, 2007. Our management has concluded that the consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 and for the two years ended December 31, 2009, fairly present in all material respects our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Our management has evaluated the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 based on the control criteria established in a report entitled Internal Control — Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. During its evaluation, as of December 31, 2009 our management identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and other deficiencies as described in Item 9A. As a result, our investors could lose confidence in us, which could result in a decline in our stock price. 18 Table of Contents We are taking steps to remediate our material weaknesses, as described in Item 9A. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude in the future that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could decline significantly. In addition, we cannot be certain that additional material weaknesses or other significant deficiencies in our internal controls will not be discovered in the future. Our stock price is volatile, which could adversely affect your investment. Our stock price, like that of other international bio-pharma and/or cancer diagnostic and treatment companies, is highly volatile. Our stock price may be affected by such factors as: • clinical trial results; • product development announcements by us or our competitors; • regulatory matters; • announcements in the scientific and research community; • intellectual property and legal matters; • broader industry and market trends unrelated to our performance; • economic markets in Asia; and • competition in local Chinese markets where JPI sells it’s product. In addition, if our revenues or operating results in any period fail to meet the investment community’s expectations, there could be an immediate adverse impact on our stock price. Our stock price and financing may be adversely affected by outstanding warrants and convertible securities. We have a significant number of warrants outstanding and a large amount of convertible notes which “over hang” the market for the Company’s common stock. As of April 14, 2010, we had warrants outstanding that are currently exercisable for up to an aggregate of approximately 17,600,000 shares at a weighted average of $0.66 per share; approximately 43,985,700 shares of common stock potentially issuable on conversion of our 10% convertible notes at $1.20 per share and our various issues of 12% convertible notes exercisable and varying fixed prices and formula prices. The existence of, and/or exercise of all or a portion of these securities, create a negative and potentially depressive effect on our stock price because investors recognize that they “over hang” the market at this time. We have limited product liability insurance. We currently produce products for clinical studies and for investigational purposes. We are producing our products in commercial sale quantities, which will increase as we receive various regulatory approvals in the future. There can be no assurance, however, that users will not claim that effects other than those intended may result from our products, including, but not limited to claims alleged to be related to incorrect diagnoses leading to improper or lack of treatment in reliance on test results. In the event that liability claims arise out of allegations of defects in the design or manufacture of our products, one or more claims for damages may require the expenditure of funds in defense of such claims or one or more substantial awards of damages against us, and may have a material adverse effect on us by reason of our inability to defend against or pay such claims. We carry product liability insurance for any such claims, but only in an amount equal to $2,000,000 per occurrence, and $2,000,000 aggregate liability, which may be insufficient to cover all claims that may be made against us. 19 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Although we are a smaller reporting company, we are voluntarily disclosing that we received SEC comments regarding the preliminary proxy statement we filed on February 1, 2010. Although we are compiling our responses thereto, we cannot file and clear the definitive proxy statement until we file this Form 10-K and the SEC confirms that they will not submit any comments to us regarding this Form 10-K; we anticipate filing our response as soon as possible thereafter. 