Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves significant risks which are described below. Risks Related to our Financial Condition Our independent registered public accounting firm has included a going concern and “emphasis of a matter” paragraph in their report on our financial statements. Our independent registered public accounting firm expressed an opinion on our consolidated financial statements which includes an explanatory paragraph indicating that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern due to our significant operating loss in 2011, our negative cash flows from operations through December 31, 2011 and our accumulated deficit at December 31, 2011. Our ability to continue as an operating entity currently depends, in large measure, upon our ability to generate additional capital resources. The opinion also includes an “emphasis of a matter” paragraph which refers to our default on debt described in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. While we seek ways to continue to operate by securing additional financing resources or alliances or other partnership agreements, we do not at this time have any commitments or agreements that provide for additional capital resources. Our financial condition and the going concern emphasis paragraph may also make it more difficult for us to maintain existing customer relationships and to initiate and secure new customer relationships. Page 12 of 132 We have incurred significant losses and may never generate profits. We incurred net losses of $86,187,269 and $85,711,853 for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, had an accumulated stockholder deficit of $224,337,675 at December 31, 2011. In addition to operational expenses, we incurred significant charges related to interest expense, losses from the extinguishment of debt, loss on legal settlement and loss on guarantee, offset by net gain on change in fair value of derivative liabilities contributed to the increase in our accumulated losses and stockholders’ deficit during the year ended December 31, 2011. There can be no assurance that we will ever be able to achieve our sales goals or earn a profit. We require significant additional working capital to conduct our business and maintain our operations. The current level of our revenues is not sufficient to finance our operations on a long-term basis. The $150,000 of net proceeds we received in May pursuant to the letter agreement with the 2011 Noteholders shall only be used to keep our Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which the Securities and Exchange Commission declared effective on February 14, 2012, current and maintain compliance with our reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended At June 15, 2012, we had cash on hand of approximately $3,000. Due to the lack of funding, the Company suspended most research and development, marketing as well as incurred a reduction in work force. As a result, the Company currently requires approximately $40,000 per month for operating expenses to fund the costs associated with our SEC reporting; general and administrative expenses; regulatory compliance, and distribution activities related to our Onko-Sure® test kit and the operation of a USFDA approved pharmaceutical manufacturing facility. Based on our current cash position and without additional financing we have been unable to pay all our obligations. The monthly cash requirement for operating expenses does not include payments for legal, consulting, certain general and administrative expenses and accounting as well as any extraordinary items or expenditures, payments for research on clinical trials for our Onko-Sure® test kit, and research conducted through CLIA Laboratories. Accordingly, if we do not receive additional financing, we will be unable to increase or maintain our current sales of our Onko-Sure® IVD test kits or otherwise support our operating cash needs. We have suspended most activities except those that are required to preserve the Corporate entity. However, if additional funding is not obtained or we have an increase in sales, we may no longer be able to pay our continuing obligations when due or to continue to operate our business. As a result, we might be required to cease operations or seek protection under the U.S. bankruptcy laws. We are relying upon investors exercising our Series A Warrants for cash to obtain needed additional financing. We registered 16,000,000 Series A Warrant Shares, or only 5.1% of the 313,500,000 shares of common stock initially issuable under the Series A Warrant, under the registration statement that was made effective on February 14, 2012. We may also register for resale in future registration statements additional Series A Warrant Shares, to the maximum extent permitted by the SEC under Rule 415. We require significant additional working capital to continue our business operations, and are relying largely upon the cash exercise of the Series A Warrants to provide such additional working capital. There can be no assurance that we will be able to register sufficient Series A Warrant Shares for resale or that, even if registered, that the holders of the Series A Warrants will elect to exercise all or any portion thereof for cash. . Pursuant to the May 2012 agreement with these warrant holders, $150,000 worth of such warrants were exercised. Even if all remaining 10,272,624 Series A Warrant Shares are exercised for cash, at the adjusted exercise price of $0.05 per share, we will only receive approximately $800,000 in proceeds. As of the date of this report, 5,727,346 Series A Warrants were exercised at the adjusted exercise price of $0.02619. Proceeds were used to pay a portion of legal, accounting and consulting fees necessary to complete our SEC filings. Page 13 of 132 We have a significant amount of indebtedness that is in default and we are currently unable to satisfy our obligations to pay interest and principal thereon. As of June 15, 2012, we had the following approximate amounts of outstanding short term indebtedness: ·Accrued interest of approximately $1,054,088; ·Approximately $46,000 in unsecured convertible notes bearing interest at 10% per annum increased to 18% per annum due to failure to pay the Notes by September 29, 2010; ·Approximately $25,000 in senior unsecured convertible promissory notes bearing interest at 18% interest, payable quarterly in cash, which became due between December 2010 and May 2011; ·Approximately $8.0 million in legal settlement promissory notes, bearing interest at 8% per annum. We are obligated to retire the Notes in monthly installments, commencing January 31, 2012, by payment in cash or (at our sole option) by delivery of shares of our common stock in an amount equal to 6.25% of the initial principal amount of each Note, plus accrued interest; ·Approximately $4.8 million in outstanding November Notes and $3.4 million in Series B and $500,000 Series C convertible preferred stock which, unless converted into our common stock, matures or is subject to mandatory redemption on November 29, 2012; and ·Approximately $300,000 in unsecured convertible notes bearing interest at 4% per annum that matures on April 30, 2015. Absent full conversion of these debts or the receipt of new financing or series of financings, our current operations do not generate sufficient cash to pay these obligations, when due. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pay these or other obligations which we may incur in the future. In the event we are unable to convert into equity the balance of the outstanding November Notes, RDO Notes and the outstanding redeemable Series B and Series C Preferred Stock, the holders may obtain judgments against us and seek to enforce such judgments against our assets, in which event we will be required to cease our business activities and the equity of our stockholders will be effectively wiped out. There are pending lawsuits against us, which if decided in plaintiffs’ favor may result in the payment of cash damages, additional warrants, and liability for certain of our executive officers. On March 11, 2011, a class action suit was filed against us, alleging we violated federal securities laws by misrepresenting the relationship between us and third parties involved in our clinical studies of Onko-Sure® test. As of the date of this filing, we hired outside defense counsel, but have not submitted our response to the complaint. We vehemently deny the allegations in the complaint and are proceeding to vigorously defend the suit. Due to the uncertain nature of litigation and the early stage of this lawsuit, we cannot calculate the potential damages – nor does the complaint seek any specific monetary amount of damages. We have been engaged in litigation with AcuVector and with the Governors of the University of Alberta over our CIT technology. Formal orders to dismiss were filed and approved by the Court. However, opposing counsel, who approved the form of order, filed an appeal on December 23, 2011. Although we believe both actions are without merit and that the dismissal order should be upheld, it is possible the appeal will be granted and then, if either AcuVector or the University is successful in their claims, we may be liable for substantial damages, our right to the technology will be adversely affected and our future prospects for exploiting or licensing the CIT technology will be significantly impaired. As of the date of this report, due to our financial situation, we were unable to maintain the retainer with counsel representing us in these matters and they therefore withdrew as counsel. According, we are not represented by legal counsel at this time and cannot guarantee we will be able to retain new counsel. This will have a negative impact on our ability to defend the appeal. On December 8, 2010, Ironridge Global IV, Ltd. (“Ironridge”) filed a complaint against us in the Superior Court of California, Los Angeles County. Ironridge claims that we breached a contract with them by allegedly discussing and then entering into transactions to settle certain of our outstanding liabilities with our creditors during a 30-day exclusivity period, during which Ironridge claims they had the exclusive right to do so. Ironridge is seeking damages in excess of $30.0 million. We believe that the Ironridge claims are totally without merit and intend to defend our position vigorously. On May 16 and May 21, 2012, two former employees filed a Notice of Claim and Conference with the Labor Commissioner of the State of California against us for unpaid wages accrued from February 2012 to March 2012 and accrued vacation pay. Page 14 of 132 If the material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal accounting procedures are not remediated, we will not comply with the rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act related to accounting controls and procedures or our stock price could decline significantly. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act required annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting commencing December 31, 2007. Our management concluded the consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the two-years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, fairly present in all material respects our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Our management evaluated the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 based on the control criteria established in a report entitled Internal Control — Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, our management concluded our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. During its evaluation, as of December 31, 2011 our management identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and other deficiencies as described elsewhere in this Report . As a result, our investors could lose confidence in us, which could result in a decline in our stock price. We are taking steps to remediate our material weaknesses. However, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude in the future that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could decline significantly. In addition, we cannot be certain that additional material weaknesses or other significant deficiencies in our internal controls will not be discovered in the future. Risks Related to our Products and Development of our Business Limited product development activities; our product development efforts may not result in commercial products. We are limited in the number of additional products we can develop at this time. Successful cancer detection and treatment product development is highly uncertain, and very few research and development projects produce a commercial product. Products like Onko-Sure® appear promising in the early phases of development may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: ·the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results even though it demonstrated positive preclinical trial results; ·the product candidate was not effective in treating a specified condition or illness; ·the product candidate had harmful side effects on humans; ·the necessary regulatory bodies did not approve our product candidate for an intended use; ·the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture and commercialize; and ·the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing therapeutics. Of course, there may be other factors that prevent us from marketing a product including, but not limited to, our limited cash resources. We cannot guarantee we will be able to produce commercially successful products. Further, clinical trial results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations by scientists, medical personnel, regulatory personnel, statisticians and others, which may delay, limit or prevent further clinical development or regulatory approvals of a product candidate. Also, the length of time that it takes for us to complete clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval in multiple jurisdictions for a product varies by jurisdiction and by product. We cannot predict the length of time to complete necessary clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval. Page 15 of 132 We have limited sales of the Onko-Sure® test kit and are reliant on our distributors for sales of our products. Virtually all of our operating revenues come from the sale of Onko-Sure® to distributors and research users. Historically, we have not received any substantial orders from any of our customers or distributors of Onko-Sure® test kits. Through December 31, 2011, total sales of Onko-Sure® test kits were $313,559 as compared to $231,662 in total sales of such product in fiscal 2010. Due to the lack of funds, we are unable to continue the sales and marketing of our kits which impacts our efforts to increase or maintain our distribution network. In addition, the amount of Onko-Sure® test kits purchased by our distributors can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including market challenges of commercializing a recently approved biotech product, budget cycles and the amount of resources available for marketing programs, demand creation activities, and outreach to appropriate healthcare professionals and targeted markets. At this time, until we receive additional financing, it is likely that our sales efforts will cease. Our current products cannot be sold in certain countries if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval. We manufacture, distribute and market our products for their approved indications. These activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal governmental authorities in the U.S., such as the USFDA and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (formerly Health Care Financing Administration) and certain foreign countries, including some in the European Union;. Currently, we (or our distributors) are required in the U.S. and in foreign countries to obtain approval from those countries’ regulatory authorities before we can market and sell our products in those countries. Obtaining regulatory approval is costly and may take many years, and after it is obtained, it remains costly to maintain. The USFDA and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion to terminate any clinical trials, require additional testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and mandate product withdrawals. In addition, later discovery of unknown problems with our products or manufacturing processes could result in restrictions on such products and manufacturing processes, including potential withdrawal of the products from the market. If regulatory authorities determine that we have violated regulations or if they restrict, suspend or revoke our prior approvals, they could prohibit us from manufacturing or selling our products until we comply, or indefinitely. We have do not have any product liability insurance. We currently produce products for clinical studies and for investigational purposes. We are producing our products in commercial sale quantities, which will increase as we receive various regulatory approvals in the future. There can be no assurance, however, that users will not claim that effects other than those intended may result from our products, including, but not limited to claims alleged to be related to incorrect diagnoses leading to improper or lack of treatment in reliance on test results. In the event that liability claims arise out of allegations of defects in the design or manufacture of our products, one or more claims for damages may require the expenditure of funds in defense of such claims or one or more substantial awards of damages against us, and may have a material adverse effect on us by reason of our inability to defend against or pay such claims. Our severe working capital shortages has prevented us from being able to pay the premiums associated with our products liability insurance. As a result, products liability insurance was cancelled June 1, 2012. If our intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or if we fail to prevail in future intellectual property litigation, our business could be adversely affected. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. To date, there has emerged no consistent policy regarding breadth of claims allowed in such companies’ patents. Third parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates and technologies. In addition, our patent positions might not protect us against competitors with similar products or technologies because competing products or technologies may not infringe on our patents. We face substantial competition, and others may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products before or more successfully than we do. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our products compete with other products or treatments for diseases for which our products may be indicated. Additionally, some of our competitors market products or are actively engaged in research and development in areas where we are developing product candidates. Large pharmaceutical corporations have greater clinical, research, regulatory and marketing resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may have technical or competitive advantages over us for the development of technologies and processes. These resources may make it difficult for us to compete with them to successfully discover, develop and market new products. Page 16 of 132 We have a limited supply of one of the key components of the Onko-Sure® Although the Company has obtained approval from the USFDA to market the then current formulation of the Onko-Sure® test kit, it has been determined that one of the key components of the Onko-Sure® test kit, the anti-fibrinogen-HRP is limited in supply and additional quantities cannot be purchased. Currently, we have two lots remaining which are estimated to produce approximately 21,000 kits. In order to utilize in kits, we will need to purify and quality control the lots. We currently have enough purified and quality checked anti-fibrinogen-HRP to manufacture 200 kits. We will need to purify and quality check additional lots to fill expected orders. We have been investigating alternatives and engaging in research and development to produce this component in house so that we can be in a position to have an unlimited supply of Onko-Sure® in the future. Due to the lack of funding, we suspended research and development including the initial validation studies which were scheduled to be completed by the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2012. Without such replacement, we will not be able to produce any additional kits once our current supply is used. We are subject to risks associated with our foreign distributors. Our business strategy includes the continued dependence on foreign distributors for our Onko-Sure® test kits. To date, we have not been successful in generating a significant increase in sales for Onko-Sure® test kits through foreign distribution channels in existing markets or in developing foreign distribution channels in new markets. We are also subject to the risks associated with our foreign distributor’s operations, including: (i) fluctuations in currency exchange rates; (ii) compliance with local laws and other regulatory requirements; (iii) restrictions on the repatriation of funds; (iv) inflationary conditions; (v) political and economic instability; (vi) war or other hostilities; (vii) overlap of tax structures; and (viii) expropriation or nationalization of assets. The inability to manage these and other risks effectively could adversely affect our business. Our Business depends on retaining and maintaining good relations with our employees. We are dependent upon the ability and experience of our executive officers, managers, employees and other personnel and there can be no assurance we will be able to retain all of such employees. As of April 17, 2013 all employees except for two were laid off. Temporary or extended lay-offs due to financial constraints may result in vacancies or the need to hire less skilled or efficient employees. The loss of these persons or our inability to attract and retain highly skilled employees could have an adverse effect on our business and future operations. As of the date of this report, two former employees have filed a Notice of Claim and Conference with the Labor Commissioner, State of California for payment of accrued wages. Due to our current and recent financial condition, we have been unable to pay the premiums on our Officer and Director liability insurance. Our severe working capital shortage has prevented us from being able to pay the premiums associated with our Director and Officer Insurance. As a direct result of the loss of such insurance, two of our directors decided to resign. Although our remaining officers and directors are currently continuing in their roles, there can be no guarantee that they too will not have to resign if we are unable to reacquire such insurance. Additionally, if we are unable to reacquire and maintain such insurance, it will probably be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. Risks Relating to Our Securities There have been material decreases in the market prices of our common stock. As of June 15, 2012 the closing bid price of our common stock was $0.0001 per share. From January 2011 through June 15, 2012, our common stock has had a trading range with a low price of $0.0001 per share and a high price of $41.75 per share. In contrast, during the two years ending December 31, 2011 and 2010, our common stock has had a trading range with a low price of $0.055 per share and a high price of $41.75 per share. There can be no assurance that the market prices of our common stock will not materially decrease again, especially as holders of our convertible notes and convertible preferred stock and warrants sell the underlying shares issuable upon conversion or exercise of such securities, whether in accordance with the sale limits agreed upon or otherwise. From January 2011 through June 15, 2012, our common stock traded an average of approximately 5,640,365 shares per day. Page 17 of 132 The interests of our current stockholders in the equity of our company are subject to substantial dilution. We have a significant number of warrants and options outstanding and a large amount of convertible notes and convertible preferred stock which “over hang” the market for our common stock. At June 15, 2012, we had: ·Approximately 313,000,000 of outstanding warrants at a weighted average exercise price of $0.07 per share (subject to adjustment), including approximately 307,754,000 Series A warrants at a weighted average exercise price of $0.055825 per share (subject to adjustment); ·Approximately 12.9 million options outstanding and vested within sixty days at a weighted average exercise price of $0.38 per share; ·Approximately $13.1 million in convertible notes; ·Approximately $3.4 million in outstanding Series B Convertible Preferred Stock; ·Approximately $500,000 in outstanding Series C Convertible Preferred Stock. Due to the current price of our stock and the conversion price set forth in each instrument (See Note 8), we would be unable to issue all shares that are potentially issuable due to the limitation of the number of authorized shares of common stock of 5 billion. In the event a portion of warrants, options, convertible notes and preferred stock is exercised or converted, there would be a substantial dilution in the interest of other stockholders as a result of the additional common stock that would be issued. Our stock price and ability to finance may be adversely affected by our outstanding convertible securities and warrants. Sales of the shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants and upon conversion of our convertible securities, would likely have a depressive effect on the market price of our common stock. Further, the existence of, and/or potential exercise or conversion of all or a portion of these securities, create a negative and potentially depressive effect on our stock price because investors recognize that they “over hang” the market at this time. As a result, the terms on which we may obtain additional financing during the period any of these warrants or convertible securities remain outstanding may be adversely affected by the existence of such warrants and convertible securities. Insiders have substantial control over us, and they could delay or prevent a change in our corporate control even if our other stockholders wanted it to occur. Our executive officers, directors, and principal stockholders beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately less than 1% of our outstanding common stock at June 15, 2012. These stockholders are able to control all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This could delay or prevent an outside party from acquiring or merging with us even if our other stockholders wanted it to occur. On a fully diluted basis, the percentage of our executive officers and directors will be approximately 0.00%. The percentage of beneficial ownership is based on 5 billion shares outstanding as of June 15, 2012. This is based on 1,347,936,151 shares outstanding as of June 15, 2012 and assuming (i) the conversion of all outstanding notes, (ii) conversion of all outstanding preferred stock and accrued dividends, (iii) exercise of warrants and options, up to the maximum authorized shares of 5 billion common shares. Page 18 of 132 Our common stock is a “penny stock” and may be difficult to sell. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define a “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share and, therefore, it may be designated as a “penny stock” according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their shares. The market for penny stocks has experienced numerous frauds and abuses which could adversely impact investors in our stock. Penny stocks are frequent targets of fraud or market manipulation. Patterns of fraud and abuse include: ·Control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; ·Manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; ·“Boiler room” practices involving high pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; ·Excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and ·Wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the inevitable collapse of those prices with consequent investor losses. Our management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. Our stock price is volatile, which could adversely affect your investment. Our stock price, like that of other international bio-pharma and/or cancer diagnostic companies, is highly volatile. Our stock price may be affected by such factors as: ·clinical trial results; ·product development announcements by us or our competitors; ·regulatory matters; ·announcements in the scientific and research community; ·intellectual property and legal matters; and ·broader industry and market trends unrelated to our performance. In addition, if our revenues or operating results in any period fail to meet the investment community’s expectations, there could be an immediate adverse impact on our stock price. Our publicly filed reports are subject to review by the SEC, and any significant changes or amendments required as a result of any such review may result in material liability to us and may have a material adverse impact on the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The reports of publicly traded companies are subject to review by the SEC from time to time for the purpose of assisting companies in complying with applicable disclosure requirements, and the SEC is required to undertake a comprehensive review of a company’s reports at least once every three years under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. SEC reviews may be initiated at any time. We could be required to modify, amend or reformulate information contained in prior filings as a result of an SEC review. Any modification, amendment or reformulation of information contained in such reports could be significant and result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of the Company’s common stock. Page 19 of 132 The delisting of our common stock from the OTCQX to OTCQB constitutes an event of default under certain of our outstanding notes which may result in acceleration of the payment of the entire outstanding balance of their notes We received a notice from the Pink OTC Markets Inc., dated August 23, 2011 notifying us that we were out of compliance with OTCQX Rules for U.S. Companies section 3.2.b, which states, in essence, that our common stock must have a minimum closing bid price of $0.10 per share at least once in every thirty consecutive trading days. If our common stock does not meet that requirement, we have 180 days to regain compliance therewith by maintaining a $0.10 closing bid price for ten consecutive trading days during such grace period. The grace period ended on February 20, 2012 and because our common stock did not meet the closing bid price requirement, our common stock will move down from the OTCQX tier of the OTC Markets to the OTCQB tier of the OTC Markets, as of February 22, 2012. The main difference between the OTCQB and OTCQX is that stocks listed on the OTCQX undergo additional quality review and have different listing standards than those on the OTCQB, although both are tiers of the OTC Markets. Our trading symbol shall remain the same. The delisting of our common stock from the OTCQX constitutes an event of default under certain of our outstanding notes, including the “2011 Noteholders” (as that term is defined in our Form 8-K dated November 29, 2011). As of June 15, 2012, such notes have a total outstanding balance of approximately $13.0 million. Under the default provisions of such notes, the holders maintain the right to accelerate the payment of the entire outstanding balance of their notes. In addition, the 2011 Noteholders have the right to demand redemption of all of their outstanding Series B Preferred Stock. As of the date of this filing, an aggregate of 338,078 shares of Series B Preferred Stock and 50,000 shares of Series C Preferred Stock is outstanding. As disclosed in Form 8-K filed on February 23, 2012, our common stock was delisted from the OTCQX tier of the OTC Markets and moved to the OTCQB tier of the OTC Markets. We also disclosed our inability to pay our accounts payable and other obligations in the ordinary course of business. As further disclosed, each such event constitutes an event of default under certain of our outstanding notes, including the “2011 Noteholders” (as that term is defined in our Form 8-K dated November 29, 2011); it also constitutes a triggering event under the terms of our Series B and Series C preferred stock, which can result in redemption of such stock. Between March 26, 2012 and April 3, 2012, we received an Event of Default Redemption Notice and a Notice of Redemption from four note holders. Pursuant to the Event of Default Redemption Notice, each note holder elected to redeem their respective note in full, thereby requiring immediate payment of the entire outstanding balance of their note. Failure to pay the balance by April 2, 2012, will activate the late charges of 24% per annum until the redemption price is paid in full. Pursuant to the Notice of Redemption, each note holder elected to redeem all of their respective shares of Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock at the current redemption price, which must be paid by April 2, 2012. Failure to pay by April 2, 2012 triggers interest payments at the rate of 2% per month for each unredeemed share until the redemption price is paid in full These same three note holders also asserted claims against the Company's officers and directors for breaches of fiduciary duties of care, loyalty, good faith and disclosure, self-dealing and waste and spoliation of corporate assets. Pursuant thereto, the note holders asserted damages in amounts equal to at least $4.25 million or $2.25 million, respectively. Due to the absence of any working capital, we are unable to pay the redemption prices at this time. However, as previously stated, pursuant to the May Agreement, these note holders agreed to certain forbearances regarding these, and other defaults pending we satisfy specific conditions by the contractual deadlines set forth in such agreement. If we do not satisfy these conditions, the note holders may re-establish their previous claims and defaults, which may cause us to cease operations, declare bankruptcy or take other actions that would cause us to terminate our business Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Page 20 of 132 