Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves significant risks which are described below. Limited product development activities; our product development efforts may not result in commercial products. We intend to continue to pursue SFDA approval of the DR-70 test kit and licensing of our CIT technology. Due to limited cash resources, we are limited in the number of additional products we can develop at this time. Successful cancer detection and treatment product development is highly uncertain, and very few research and development projects produce a commercial product. Product candidates like the DR-70 test kit or the CIT technology that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in early animal or human clinical trials, may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: • the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results even though it demonstrated positive preclinical trial results; • the product candidate was not effective in treating a specified condition or illness; • the product candidate had harmful side effects on humans; • the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the SFDA, did not approve our product candidate for an intended use; • the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture and commercialize; and • the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing therapeutics. Of course, there may be other factors that prevent us from marketing a product including, but not limited to, our limited cash resources. We cannot guarantee we will be able to produce commercially successful products. Further, clinical trial results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations by scientists, medical personnel, regulatory personnel, statisticians and others, which may delay, limit or prevent further clinical development or regulatory approvals of a product candidate. Also, the length of time that it takes for us to complete clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval in multiple jurisdictions for a product varies by jurisdiction and by product. We cannot predict the length of time to complete necessary clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval. Our cash position in the U.S. and China as of April 10, 2009 of approximately $3,715,000 is not sufficient to fully implement all of our various business strategies for the DR-70 test kit or to market the DR-70 test kit or our HPE-based products internationally by ourselves. Even if we are successful in obtaining additional financing, and notwithstanding any cash generated from our pharmaceutical operations in China which may be available to us, our short-term strategies are to engage outside distributors and license our products to others, although there can be no assurances that our products can be successfully licensed and/or marketed. Our operations in China involve significant risk. JJB and YYB operate as WFOEs in China. Risks associated with operating as a WFOE include unlimited liability for claims arising from operations in China and potentially less favorable treatment from governmental agencies in China than JJB and YYB would receive if JJB and YYB operated through a joint venture with a Chinese partner. JJB and YYB are subject to the Pharmaceutical Administrative Law, which governs the licensing, manufacture, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products in China and sets penalty provisions for violations of provisions of the Pharmaceutical Administrative Law. Compliance with changes in law may require us to incur additional expenditures or could impose additional regulation on the prices charged for our pharmaceutical products, which could have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. As in the case of JJB, the Chinese government has the right to annex or take facilities it deems necessary. Currently, a portion of JJB’s facility that produces large and small volume parenteral solutions has been identified 13 Table of Contents for annexation by the Chinese Military Department. The outcome of this event cannot be predicted at this time, but if the Chinese government takes this facility, although we expect that JJB will be compensated fairly for the facility, JJB will have to spend significant time and resources finding another location and restarting those operations in another area. We intend to consolidate JJB and any operations related to product lines retained after the planned sale of YYB in a single facility in a new location. Such new location will need to obtain GMP certification. Such annexation, or the threat of such annexation, may negatively impact our results of operation and financial condition. The value of the RMB fluctuates and is subject to changes in China’s political and economic conditions. Historically, the Chinese government has benchmarked the RMB exchange ratio against the U.S. dollar, thereby mitigating the associated foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk; however, no assurances can be given that the risks related to currency deviations of the RMB will not increase in the future. Additionally, the RMB is not freely convertible into foreign currency and all foreign exchange transactions must take place through authorized institutions. We may not be able to continue to operate our business if we are unable to attract additional operating capital. The current level of our revenues is not sufficient to finance all of our operations on a long-term basis. We manage our cash generated from operations in China and currently transfer funds previously advanced to JPI to meet our U.S. operating cash needs. We continue to attempt to raise additional debt or equity financing as our operations do not produce sufficient cash to offset the cash drain of growth in pharmaceutical sales and our general operating and administrative expenses. Accordingly, our business and operations are substantially dependent on our ability to raise additional capital to: (i) finance the costs of SFDA approval for the DR-70 test kit in China; (ii) supply capital to JPI to move to new facilities; (iii) supply working capital for the expansion of sales and the costs of marketing of new and existing products; and (iv) fund ongoing selling, general and administrative expenses of our business. If we do not receive additional financing, or if our China operations do not or cannot support our operating cash needs in the U.S., the Company will have to restrict or discontinue certain operations in both China and the U.S. No assurances can be given that our China pharmaceutical operations will generate enough cash to meet our cash needs in the US to enable us to pay our continuing obligations when due or to continue to operate our business. At April 10, 2009, we had cash on hand in the U.S. and China of approximately $3,715,000. Our operations in China currently generate positive cash from operations, but the availability of any cash from our operations in China and the timing thereof may be uncertain. Our receivables in China have been outstanding for extended periods, and we have experienced delays in collection. Accordingly, there can be no assurances that any funds from our China operations will be available to defray operating expenses in the U.S. in the future. Our US operations require approximately $425,000 per month to fund the costs associated with our financing activities; SEC and NYSE reporting; legal and accounting expenses of being a public company; other general administrative expenses; research and development, regulatory compliance, and distribution activities related to DR-70 test kit; the operation of a USFDA approved pharmaceutical manufacturing facility; the development of international distribution of the Company’s planned HPE-based cosmetics product line; and compensation of executive management in the US and China. In lieu of reinvesting all cash flow from Chinese operations in China, currently the necessary funds to meet our cash flow obligations in the United States are being transferred from JPI and/or JJB to AMDL in the United States. Assuming (i) JJB and YYB do not undertake significant new activities which require additional capital, (ii) the current level of revenue from the sale of DR-70 test kits does not increase in the near future, (iii) we do not conduct any full scale clinical trials for the DR-70 test kit or our CIT technology in the U.S. or China, (iv) JPI continues to generate sufficient cash to meet or exceed its cash requirements, (v) no outstanding warrants are exercised, and (vi) no additional equity or debt financings are completed, the amount of cash on hand is expected to be sufficient to meet our projected operating expenses on a month to month basis as long as JPI or JJB continues to generate enough cash from operations which can be timely sent to the U.S. to meet the operating expenses of the Company in the U.S. 14 Table of Contents Our independent registered public accounting firm has included a going concern paragraph in their report on our financial statements. While our independent registered public accounting firm expressed an unqualified opinion on our consolidated financial statements, our independent registered public accounting firm did include an explanatory paragraph indicating that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern due to our significant operating loss in 2007, our negative cash flows from operations through December 31, 2008 and our accumulated deficit at December 31, 2008. Our ability to continue as an operating entity currently depends, in large measure, upon our ability to generate additional capital resources. In light of this situation, it is not likely that we will be able to raise equity. While we seek ways to continue to operate by securing additional financing resources or alliances or other partnership agreements, we do not at this time have any commitments or agreements that provide for additional capital resources. Our financial condition and the going concern emphasis paragraph may also make it more difficult for us to maintain existing customer relationships and to initiate and secure new customer relationships. Our current products cannot be sold in certain countries if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval. We manufacture, distribute and market our products for their approved indications. These activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal governmental authorities in the U.S., such as the USFDA and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (formerly Health Care Financing Administration) and the SFDA in China as well as by certain foreign countries, including some in the European Union. Currently, we (or our distributors) are required in the U.S. and in foreign countries to obtain approval from those countries’ regulatory authorities before we can market and sell our products in those countries. Obtaining regulatory approval is costly and may take many years, and after it is obtained, it remains costly to maintain. The USFDA and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion to terminate any clinical trials, require additional testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and mandate product withdrawals. In addition, later discovery of unknown problems with our products or manufacturing processes could result in restrictions on such products and manufacturing processes, including potential withdrawal of the products from the market. If regulatory authorities determine that we have violated regulations or if they restrict, suspend or revoke our prior approvals, they could prohibit us from manufacturing or selling our products until we comply, or indefinitely. Our future prospects will be negatively impacted if we are unsuccessful in pending litigation over the CIT technology. As noted above, we are engaged in litigation with AcuVector and with the Governors of the University of Alberta over our CIT technology. Although these cases are still in the early stages of discovery, we believe they are without merit and that we will receive a favorable judgment in both. However, if either AcuVector or the University is successful in their claims, we may be liable for substantial damages, our rights to the technology will be adversely affected, and our future prospects for exploiting or licensing the CIT technology will be significantly impaired. The value of intangible assets may not be equal to their carrying values. One of our intangible assets includes the CIT technology, which we acquired from Dr. Chang in August 2001. We also purchased certain intangible assets in our acquisition of JPI and purchased additional production rights in 2007. Whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, we are required to evaluate the carrying value of such intangibles, including the related amortization periods. Whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an intangible asset may not be recoverable, we determine whether there has been impairment by comparing the anticipated undiscounted cash flows from the operation and eventual disposition of the product line with its carrying value. If the undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value, the amount of the impairment, if any, will be determined by comparing the carrying value of each intangible asset with its fair value. Fair value is generally based on either a discounted cash flows analysis or market analysis. Future operating income is based on various assumptions, including regulatory approvals, patents being granted, and the type and nature of competing products. 15 Table of Contents Patent approval for eight original claims related to the CIT technology was obtained in May 2004 and a continuation patent application was filed in 2004 for a number of additional claims. No regulatory approval has been requested for our CIT technology and we do not have the funds to conduct the clinical trials which would be required to obtain regulatory approval for our CIT technology. Accordingly, we are seeking a strategic partner to license the CIT technology from us. If we cannot attract a large pharmaceutical company to license our CIT technology and conduct the trials required to obtain regulatory approval, or if regulatory approvals or patents are not obtained or are substantially delayed, or other competing technologies are developed and obtain general market acceptance, or market conditions otherwise change, our CIT technology and other intangible technology may have a substantially reduced value, which could be material. As intangible assets represent a substantial portion of assets in our consolidated balance sheet, any substantial deterioration of value would significantly impact our reported consolidated financial position and our reported consolidated operating results. Some of the production right intangible assets purchased from YiBo by JPI have not yet received manufacturing permits or been commercialized. We may have to recognize impairments of some of these intangible assets in the future. If our intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or if we fail to prevail in future intellectual property litigation, our business could be adversely affected. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. To date, there has emerged no consistent policy regarding breadth of claims allowed in such companies’ patents. Third parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates and technologies. In addition, our patent positions might not protect us against competitors with similar products or technologies because competing products or technologies may not infringe our patents. We face substantial competition, and others may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products before or more successfully than we do. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our products compete with other products or treatments for diseases for which our products may be indicated. Additionally, some of our competitors market products or are actively engaged in research and development in areas where we are developing product candidates. Large pharmaceutical corporations have greater clinical, research, regulatory and marketing resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may have technical or competitive advantages over us for the development of technologies and processes. These resources may make it difficult for us to compete with them to successfully discover, develop and market new products. We have limited sales of the DR-70 test kit and are reliant on our distributors for sales of our products. Prior to the acquisition of JPI, virtually all of our operating revenues came from sales to two distributors in of the DR-70 test kits in foreign countries and from sales to a few domestic customers of certain OEM products. For the year ended December 31, 2008, virtually all of our revenues in the U.S. were derived from sales of DR-70 test kits. Historically, we have not received any substantial orders from any of our customers or distributors of DR-70 test kits. Moreover, none of our distributors or customers is contractually required to buy any specific number of DR-70 test kits from us. Accordingly, based upon this fact, historical sales, any projection of future orders or sales of DR-70 test kits is unreliable. In addition, the amount of DR-70 test kits purchased by our distributors or customers can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including their budget cycles and the amount of funds available to them for product promotion and marketing. JPI is reliant on its distributors for sales of its products. Most of JPI’s products are sold to distributors. JPI’s distributors are not required to purchase any minimum quantity of products; however, many of JPI’s distribution agreements are subject to termination and cancellation if minimum quantities of specified products are not purchased by the distributors. JPI has never terminated any distributor for failure to meet the minimum quantity sales targets. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to risks associated with our foreign distributors. Our business strategy includes the continued dependence on foreign distributors for our DR-70 test kits and local distributors in China for JPI’s products. To date, we have not been successful in generating a significant increase in sales for DR-70 test kits through distribution channels in existing markets or in developing distribution channels in new markets. We are also subject to the risks associated with our distributor’s operations, including: (i) fluctuations in currency exchange rates; (ii) compliance with local laws and other regulatory requirements; (iii) restrictions on the repatriation of funds; (iv) inflationary conditions; (v) political and economic instability; (vi) war or other hostilities; (vii) overlap of tax structures; and (viii) expropriation or nationalization of assets. The inability to manage these and other risks effectively could adversely affect our business. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any earnings to support our growth strategy and do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. If we fail to comply with the rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act related to accounting controls and procedures or if the material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal accounting procedures are not remediated, our stock price could decline significantly. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act required annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting commencing December 31, 2007 and requires a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting commencing for the year ending December 31, 2009. Our management has concluded that the consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 and for the two years ended December 31, 2008, fairly present in all material respects our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Our management has evaluated the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 based on the control criteria established in a report entitled Internal Control — Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. During its evaluation, as of December 31, 2008 our management identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and other deficiencies as described in Item 9A. As a result, our investors could lose confidence in us, which could result in a decline in our stock price. We are taking steps to remediate our material weaknesses, as described in Item 9A. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude in the future that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could decline significantly. In addition, we cannot be certain that additional material weaknesses or other significant deficiencies in our internal controls will not be discovered in the future. Our stock price is volatile, which could adversely affect your investment. Our stock price, like that of other international bio-pharma and/or cancer diagnostic and treatment companies, is highly volatile. Our stock price may be affected by such factors as: • clinical trial results; • product development announcements by us or our competitors; • regulatory matters; 17 Table of Contents • announcements in the scientific and research community; • intellectual property and legal matters; • broader industry and market trends unrelated to our performance; • economic markets in Asia; and • competition in local Chinese markets where we sell JPI’s product. In addition, if our revenues or operating results in any period fail to meet the investment community’s expectations, there could be an immediate adverse impact on our stock price. Our stock price and financing may be adversely affected by outstanding warrants and convertible securities. We have a significant number of warrants outstanding and a large amount of convertible notes which “over hang” the market for the Company’s common stock. As of March 31, 2009, we had (i) warrants outstanding that are currently exercisable for up to an aggregate of 5,851,099 shares at a weighted average of $3.15 per share, (ii) 2,530,917 shares of common stock potentially issuable on conversion of our 10% convertible notes at $1.20 per share, and (iii) warrants to purchase 1,265,458 issuable on conversion of the 10% convertible notes at a formula price based on the market price on the date of conversion. The existence of, and/or exercise of all or a portion of these securities, create a negative and potentially depressive effect on our stock price because investors recognize that they “over hang” the market at this time. We have limited product liability insurance. We currently produce products for clinical studies and for investigational purposes. We are producing our products in commercial sale quantities, which will increase as we receive various regulatory approvals in the future. There can be no assurance, however, that users will not claim that effects other than those intended may result from our products, including, but not limited to claims alleged to be related to incorrect diagnoses leading to improper or lack of treatment in reliance on test results. In the event that liability claims arise out of allegations of defects in the design or manufacture of our products, one or more claims for damages may require the expenditure of funds in defense of such claims or one or more substantial awards of damages against us, and may have a material adverse effect on us by reason of our inability to defend against or pay such claims. We carry product liability insurance for any such claims, but only in an amount equal to $2,000,000 per occurrence, and $2,000,000 aggregate liability, which may be insufficient to cover all claims that may be made against us. 