ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - continued Contamination of the Company’s wines would harm the Company’s business The Company is subject to certain hazards and product liability risks, such as potential contamination, through tampering or otherwise, of ingredients or products. Contamination of any of the Company’s wines could cause it to destroy its wine held in inventory and could cause the need for a product recall, which could significantly damage the Company’s reputation for product quality. The Company maintains insurance against certain of these kinds of risks, and others, under various insurance policies. However, the insurance may not be adequate or may not continue to be available at a price or on terms that are satisfactory to the Company and this insurance may not be adequate to cover any resulting liability. A reduction in consumer demand for premium wines could harm the Company’s business There have been periods in the past in which there were substantial declines in the overall per capita consumption of beverage alcohol products in the United States and other markets in which the Company participates. A limited or general decline in consumption in one or more of the Company’s product categories could occur in the future due to a variety of factors, including: a general decline in economic conditions; increased concern about the health consequences of consuming alcoholic beverage products and about drinking and driving; a trend toward a healthier diet including lighter, lower calorie beverages such as diet soft drinks, juices and water products; the increased activity of anti-alcohol consumer groups; and increased federal, state or foreign excise and other taxes on beverage alcohol products. The competitive position of the Company’s products could also be affected adversely by any failure to achieve consistent, reliable quality in the product or service levels to customers. Changes in consumer spending could have a negative impact on the Company’s financial condition and business results Wine sales depend upon a number of factors related to the level of consumer spending, including the general state of the economy, federal and state income tax rates, deductibility of business entertainment expenses under federal and state tax laws, and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Changes in consumer spending in these and other regions can affect both the quantity and the price of wines that customers are willing to purchase at restaurants or through retail outlets. Reduced consumer confidence and spending may result in reduced demand for the Company’s products, limitations on the Company’s ability to increase prices and increased levels of selling and promotional expenses. This, in turn, may have a considerable negative impact upon the Company’s sales and profit margins. Increased regulation could adversely affect the Company The wine industry is subject to extensive regulation by the Federal Alcohol Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (“TTB”) and various foreign agencies, state liquor authorities, such as the Oregon Liquor Control Commission (“OLCC”), and local authorities. These regulations and laws dictate such matters as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, permitted distribution channels, permitted and required labeling, and advertising and relations with wholesalers and retailers. Any expansion of the Company’s existing facilities or development of new vineyards or wineries may be limited by present and future zoning ordinances, environmental restrictions and other legal requirements. In addition, new regulations or requirements or increases in excise taxes, income taxes, property and sales taxes or international tariffs, could affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Recently, many states have considered proposals to increase, and some of these states have increased, state alcohol excise taxes. New or revised regulations, or increased licensing fees, requirements or taxes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance that new or revised regulations or increased licensing fees and requirements will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and its results of operations and its cash flows. The Company’s common stock is thinly traded, and therefore not as liquid as other investments. The trading volume of the Company’s common stock on NASDAQ is consistently “thin,” in that there is not a great deal of trading activity on a daily basis. Because the average active trading volume is thin, there is less opportunity for shareholders to sell their shares of the Company’s common stock on the open market, resulting in the common stock being less liquid than common stock in other publicly traded companies. 15 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 