D. Risk factors The Group operates globally in varied markets and is affected by a number of risks inherent in its activities, not all of which are within its control. This section highlights specific areas where we are particularly sensitive to business risk. Our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks not currently known to us, or risks that we currently regard as immaterial, could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or the results of operations. The Group has categorized its risks as those relating to: • the markets within which the Group operates; • the competitive position of the Group and its businesses; and • the financial position of the Group. The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group are set out below. 1. Risks relating to the markets within which the Group operates There are a number of risks in the markets in which the Group operates which could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial condition or results of operations: (a) Cyclical nature of markets Operating in global markets subjects the Group to risks associated with changes in global economic conditions. The current economic malaise driven by the state of US credit markets may spread globally, dampen demand, increase price pressure, reduce margins and accelerate customer consolidation. These pricing pressures and declining demand risks are particularly acute in our housing, commercial construction and automotive markets, where demand is ultimately affected by consumer spending and consumer preferences. Trends in these markets can be difficult to predict. In fiscal 2007, approximately 21 percent of the Group’s sales were to the automotive OE market. Because the production volumes of automotive OEMs depend on general economic conditions and consumer spending levels, automotive production and sales can be highly cyclical. The volume of automotive production in the United States, the Group’s principal geographic segment, has fluctuated, sometimes significantly, from year to year, and such fluctuations give rise to fluctuations in the demand for the Group’s products. In fiscal 2007, 22.1 percent of the Group’s sales were to the residential and non-residential construction markets in North America, predominantly the United States. The construction industry in the United States was depressed throughout 2007 and is expected to continue facing challenges in 2008 with the NAHB forecasting that housing starts in 2008 will be down approximately 20 percent in the United States from their 2007 level of 1.4 million. The timing of a recovery in the US residential housing market now seems unlikely to occur until 2009, with this end-market showing greater weakness in the first quarter than commentators had predicted. (b) Loss of market share by US vehicle manufacturers In recent years, the Detroit Three have seen a decline in their market share for vehicle sales, particularly in North America, with Asian automobile manufacturers increasing their market share. The automotive industry is characterized by overcapacity and fierce competition. In North America it is also affected by significant pension and healthcare liabilities. In fiscal 2007, the Group derived 10 percent of its worldwide sales from the Detroit Three and therefore if this trend of market share loss by the North American manufacturers continues and the Group’s share of business with other vehicle manufacturers does not increase, it may result in lost market share, lower sales and/or lower profitability. (c) Improvement in vehicle component life The greater quality, performance and reliability of the components that the Group manufactures improves service life which could reduce demand for the products the Group sells through the aftermarket business segment. (d) Regulatory environment The Group is subject to a variety of environmental regulations in the industries in which it operates, particularly relating to waste water discharges, air emissions, solid waste management and hazardous chemical disposal. The Group may not at all times be in complete compliance with all of these regulations, and it may incur material costs to comply with, or liabilities in connection with, these regulations. (e) Operations in foreign and emerging markets The Group operates in a number of geographic regions of the world, including emerging markets, and approximately 41 percent of its sales originate outside the United States. Operations in foreign and emerging markets may subject the Group to the risks inherent in operating in such markets, such as economic and political instability, other disruption of markets, restrictive laws and actions of certain governments, difficulty in obtaining distribution and logistical resources, potential adverse tax consequences and inability to effectively protect intellectual property rights. If we are unable to manage successfully the risks inherent in our international activities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents 2. Risks relating to the competitive position of the Group and its businesses There are a number of risks to the Group’s competitive position that could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. (a) Industry consolidation may result in more powerful competitors and fewer customers Some of the Group’s customers and some of its competitors in a number of markets, particularly in the automotive aftermarket, and to a lesser extent in the markets of the Air Systems Components segment, are consolidating to achieve greater scale or market share. Such changes could affect the negotiating leverage of the Group’s customers and their relationship with the Group. As the Group’s customers become larger and more concentrated, they could exert pricing pressure on all suppliers, including the Group, which may materially and adversely affect the Group’s margins. (b) Significance of revenues generated from the Detroit Three Approximately 10 percent of the Industrial & Automotive business group’s sales in fiscal 2007 came from direct sales to the Detroit Three. These customers have strong purchasing power as a result of high market concentration and the Group’s reliance on them subjects it to potential pressures on its sale prices that may reduce the Group’s profitability. (c) Price reductions by customers It is normal practice for customers to seek reductions in their costs from their suppliers over the duration of any committed supply arrangement. To meet such requests for price reductions whilst maintaining profit margins, the Company has had to achieve corresponding cost savings in the business by strategic sourcing of raw materials and by improving production and manufacturing efficiencies. The Group may be unable to achieve such cost reductions in the future, which could result in lower margins or the loss of customers. (d) Increased competition from low-cost producers The Group increasingly faces competition from low-cost sources in the developing economies of the world, which may lead to loss of market share and/or reduced margins. (e) Increasing raw material and energy costs Steel, aluminum, oil based resins and energy are a significant part of the Group’s costs. If costs of these raw materials and energy increase, the Group may be unable to sustain margins if it is unable to pass such increases on to its customers. Fiscal 2007 saw no softening of the challenging cost environment for raw materials that has existed for the past three years. (f) Reliance on certain raw materials and suppliers of key components The Group’s businesses compete globally for certain raw materials, energy and other key components. Disruptions due to the lack of availability of raw material and energy supplies, particularly as a result of rising demand from rapidly-developing economies, may adversely affect our ability to service our customers and may erode our margins. (g) Dependence on strong relationships with manufacturers’ representatives, distributors and wholesalers A significant portion of our sales, particularly in the Power Transmission segment and Building Products business group, is made through manufacturers’ representatives, distributors and wholesalers. A deterioration in the relationships with manufacturers’ representatives, distributors and wholesalers or a change in the Group’s products’ distribution channels could materially and adversely affect the Group’s sales. (h) Inherent supply chain risks The Group operates in highly competitive markets and the failure to deliver products within acceptable timeframes could have an adverse effect on the business. Customer driven reductions in lead times, carrier consolidation, reduced capacity from driver shortages, fuel availability/cost and longer supply chains concomitant with sourcing from low-cost countries may all impact service levels resulting in loss of customers or missed opportunities. Additionally, short lead time horizons in many of our businesses exposed to the US consumer can impair forecasting accuracy. This may result in the inability to predict abrupt changes in our US driven end markets. (i) Product liability claims due to the nature of the Group’s products The nature of the Group’s products means that we face an inherent risk of product liability claims, including claims for injury, property damage or consequential loss. Fewer suppliers due to vendor consolidation and a less qualified offshore supplier base increase the likelihood of receiving defective components for our products, increasing the risk of product failure and resultant liability claims. (j) Technological changes The markets for the Group’s products and services are characterized by evolving industry standards and changing technology which may lead to commoditization of its products, allowing for low switching costs and increased pricing pressures, which could result in loss of customers and reduced margins. Continual development of advanced technologies for new products and product enhancements is an important way in which the Group maintains acceptable pricing levels. If the Group’s core products are displaced or made obsolete, the Group may lose customers, which would have an adverse effect on its results of operations. (k) Dependence on investment and divestment decisions The Group is involved in activities and plans relating to restructuring, rationalization, investments and acquisitions. These represent important steps in the expansion of our businesses into attractive markets and improvement in their competitive position. If the Group were to make inappropriate investment and divestment decisions or fail to implement major projects, such as systems development, product development or plant closures, there may be destruction of value, returns below expectations and/or business interruption. 7 Table of Contents (l) Dependence on human resources strategy If the Group is unable to timely identify, attract and retain excellent non-management, management and executive talent, it may not be able to effectively implement its business strategy, or it may experience delays in the development of, or face difficulty in selling, its products and services. (m) Dependence on the continued operation of the Group’s manufacturing facilities While the Group is not heavily dependent on any single manufacturing facility, major disruptions at a number of the Group’s manufacturing facilities, due to labor unrest, natural disasters or mechanical failure of the Group’s facilities, could result in significant interruption of the Group’s business and potential loss of customers and sales. (n) Capacity, reliability and security of the Group’s computer hardware, software and telecommunications infrastructure The Group currently secures its networks by means of back up, hardware, virus protection and other measures, but any systems interruption could lead to a reduction in performance or loss of services. The Group’s systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption caused by human error, network failure, natural disasters, sabotage, computer viruses and similar disruptive events. A breach of network security could result in a loss of customers and reduced revenues. (o) Intellectual property rights The Group’s proprietary technology is protected by patents and trade secrets which could be at risk if: • competitors are able to develop similar technology independently; • patent applications are not approved; • steps taken to prevent misappropriation or infringement of intellectual property are not successful; or • the Group does not adequately protect its intellectual property. (p) Work stoppages or other labor issues at our facilities or at our customers’ facilities Some of the Group’s employees are members of labor unions. While the Group considers its relations with its employees and labor unions to be good, if the Group is unable to maintain these relations, there may be disputes and work stoppages that could affect production of the Group’s products. Some of the Group’s customers, particularly in the automotive industry, have highly unionized workforces and have been involved in major disputes in the past. If any of our customers experiences a work stoppage, that customer may halt or limit the purchase of the Group’s products which could, in turn, force the Group to shut down its own production facilities supplying these products. 3. Financial Risks Certain financial risks could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial condition or results of operations. (a) Pension plans The Group operates defined benefit pension plans, the majority of which are in the United States and the United Kingdom. The defined benefit schemes were in deficit by £60.7 million as at December 29, 2007. Deterioration in the market value of the assets held by these plans or a reduction in long-term interest rates could lead to an increase in the deficit or give rise to an additional funding requirement. (b) Health care and workers’ compensation Healthcare and workers’ compensation are provided by certain subsidiaries to current and former employees in the United States. Healthcare costs in the United States are increasing at a faster rate than general cost inflation and these cost increases have to be absorbed by the business. In fiscal 2007, the medical cost inflation rate relating to the Group’s plans was 7.1 percent. (c) The Group is subject to multiple tax jurisdictions The Group operates within multiple tax jurisdictions and is subject to audit in those jurisdictions. These audits can involve complex issues, which may require an extended period of time for resolution. Although provision has been made for such issues, the ultimate resolution may result in additional tax charges and cash outflows. (d) Funding growth The Group may require capital to expand its business, implement its strategic initiatives and remain competitive. At present, the Group’s established sources of funding are through equity, corporate bond markets (through the EMTN Program), bank debt and cash flow from operations. Management believes that the sources of funding currently available will be sufficient to fund the Group’s operations. If management’s plans or assumptions regarding the funding requirements change, the Group may need to seek other sources of financing, such as additional lines of credit with commercial banks or vendors or public financing, or to renegotiate existing bank facilities. It is possible that additional funding may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. (e) Bondholders’ rights The Group has an EMTN Program under which it has £400 million in principal bonds outstanding and it may issue bonds in the future. The Group’s bondholders have the right to require the Group to redeem its outstanding bonds, at par, in the event of a change of control of the Company and also in the event that the Group’s credit rating falls below investment grade as a result of the Group making either acquisitions or disposals that comprise more than 25 percent of the Group’s operating profit in a twelve calendar month period. The Group may not have sufficient funds to repurchase such notes as required. 8 Table of Contents (f) Fluctuations in currency exchange rates The Group has manufacturing facilities in, and sells products to customers in, many countries worldwide. The principal currencies in which the Group trades are US dollars, Canadian dollars, Euros and pounds sterling. Currency exchange movements can give rise to the following risks: • Transaction risk: arises where sales or purchases are denominated in foreign currencies and exchange rates can change between entering into a purchase or sale commitment and completing the transaction; • Translation risk: arises where the currency in which the results of an entity are reported differs from the underlying currency in which business is transacted; and • Economic risk: arises where the manufacturing cost base of a business is denominated in a currency different from the currency of the market into which the products are sold. 4. Risks related to the securities market and ownership of ADSs Holders of ADSs may be restricted in their ability to exercise voting rights Holders of ADSs will generally have the right under the deposit agreement to instruct the Depositary for the ADSs to exercise their voting rights for the registered shares represented by ADSs. At management’s request, the Depositary will mail to holders of ADSs any notice of any shareholders’ meeting received from the Company together with information explaining how to instruct the Depositary to exercise the voting rights of the securities represented by ADSs. If the Depositary receives voting instructions for a holder of ADSs on a timely basis, it is obligated to endeavor to vote the securities representing the holder’s ADSs in accordance with those voting instructions. The ability of the Depositary to carry out voting instructions, however, may be limited by practical limitations, such as time zone differences and delays in mailing. ADS holders may be unable to participate in rights offerings and similar transactions in the future US securities laws may restrict the ability of US persons who hold ADSs to participate in certain rights offerings or share or warrant dividend alternatives which the Company may undertake in the future in the event that the Company does not register such offerings under the US securities laws and is unable to rely on an exemption from registration under these laws. If the Company issues any securities of this nature in the future, it may issue such securities to the Depositary, which may sell those securities for the benefit of the holders of the ADSs. However, the Depositary is not obligated to do so. Management cannot offer any assurance as to the value, if any, the Depositary would receive upon the sale of those securities or if it would sell the securities at all. 9 Table of Contents 