Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves significant risks which are described below. Risks Related to our Financial Condition, Defaults under Senior Securities and Pending Litigation Our independent registered public accounting firm has included a going concern and “emphasis of a matter” paragraph in their report on our financial statements. Our independent registered public accounting firm expressed an opinion on our consolidated financial statements which includes an explanatory paragraph indicating that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern due to our significant operating loss in 2010, our negative cash flows from operations through December 31, 2010 and our accumulated deficit at December 31, 2010. Our ability to continue as an operating entity currently depends, in large measure, upon our ability to generate additional capital resources. The opinion also includes an “emphasis of a matter” paragraph which refers to our default on debt described in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. In light of this situation, it is not likely we will be able to raise equity. While we seek ways to continue to operate by securing additional financing resources or alliances or other partnership agreements, we do not at this time have any commitments or agreements that provide for additional capital resources. Our financial condition and the going concern emphasis paragraph may also make it more difficult for us to maintain existing customer relationships and to initiate and secure new customer relationships. We have incurred significant losses and may never generate profits. We incurred net losses of $85,711,853 and $16,621,055 for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and had an accumulated deficit of $138,150,406 at December 31, 2010. Non-cash losses from change in derivative liabilities, various penalties, impairment charge related to the note receivable from JPI, impairment of investment in JPI and CIT intangible asset, and losses from the extinguishment of debt contributed to the increase in our accumulated losses and stockholders’ deficit. There can be no assurance that we will ever be able to achieve our sales goals or earn a profit. 9 We have a significant amount of indebtedness that is in default and we are currently unable to satisfy our obligations to pay interest and principal thereon. As of May 20, 2011, we had the following approximate amounts of outstanding short term indebtedness: (i) Accrued interest of approximately $498,000; (ii) Approximately $46,000 in unsecured convertible notes bearing interest at 10% per annum increased to 18% per annum due to failure to pay the Notes by September 29, 2010; (iii) Approximately $880,900 in unsecured convertible notes bearing interest at 12% per annum, increased to 18% per annum upon the occurrence of trigger event, due one year from issuance. These convertible notes are related to four closings during March and April of 2010; (iv) Approximately $56,000 in senior unsecured convertible promissory notes bearing interest at 18% interest, payable quarterly in cash, which are due between December 2010 and May 2011. (v) Approximately $8.7 million in convertible promissory notes which represents approximately $8.4 million that was funded in January 2011, net of two principal installment payments in the aggregate amount of approximately $1.7 million made in March and April 2011, plus an aggregate of approximately $1.9 million related to registration rights penalties and default. As of May 3, 2011, all of the note holders have declared this debt in default due to non-payment of the May installment. In the default notices, the notes holders elected to redeem the note in full. As a result of the default, the notes accrue late charges at a rate of 24% per annum, commencing on May 3, 2011. As of May 20, 2011, all closings in the 2010 Notes with a balance of $880,926 in principal outstanding, and the January 2011 Notes, with a balance of $8,697,647 are in default. As of May 20, 2011, approximately 95% of the notes payable outstanding at December 31, 2010, representing approximately $22,523,241 in principal and $2,059,122 in accrued interest, were converted into approximately 60,064,210 shares of our common stock. We obtained stockholder approval to restructure and convert a significant portion of the debt referred to in (ii) through (iv) above; however, there can be no assurance such indebtedness will be restructured or converted into equity, which is at the debt holder’s discretion. Absent full conversion of these debts or the receipt of new financing or series of financings, our current operations do not generate sufficient cash to pay interest and principal on these obligations. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pay these or other obligations which we may incur in the future. In the event we are unable to restructure or convert into equity the balance of the 2010 Notes and the 2011 Notes, the holders may obtain judgments against us and seek to enforce such judgments against our assets, in which event we will be required to cease our business activities and the equity of our stockholders will be effectively wiped out. 10 If we cannot cure our noncompliance issues with the NYSE Amex and successfully appeal their notice to delist our common stock from their exchange, our common stock will be delisted from the NYSE Amex. On December 23, 2009, we received notice from the NYSE Amex stating that we are not in compliance with Section 1003(a)(iv) of the NYSE Amex's Company Guide. Specifically, after reviewing of our Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2009, the NYSE Amex staff opined that we have sustained losses which are so substantial in relation to our overall operation or our existing financial resources, or our financial condition has become so impaired that it appears questionable, as to whether we will be able to continue operations and/or meet our obligations as they mature. As a result, we became subject to the procedures and requirements of Section 1009 of the Company Guide. To maintain our NYSE Amex listing, we submitted a plan to the NYSE Amex on January 22, 2010, advising the NYSE Amex that we intend to regain compliance with Section 1003(a)(iv) of the Company Guide by June 23, 2010. After reviewing the plan, the NYSE Amex determined that we made a reasonable demonstration of an ability to regain compliance with the continued listing standards and they therefore granted us an extension to regain compliance with Section 1003(a)(iv) by June 23, 2010. Notwithstanding the updated compliance information we submitted on January 14, 2011, pursuant to an additional extension, on January 25, 2011, the NYSE Amex sent us a delisting notice stating their determination and belief that we did not make progress consistent with the plan and remain non-compliant with Sections 1003(a)(i), 1003(a)(ii), 1003(a)(iii), 1003(a)(iv) and 704 of the Company Guide, and therefore, our securities are subject to immediate delisting proceedings. Pursuant to our rights under the Company Guide, we requested a hearing before a Listing Qualifications Panel to explain our position that we should not be delisted and should remain a listed company on the NYSE Amex. We received another notice from the NYSE Amex on March 16, 2011, stating the NYSE Amex’s Staff belief that we failed to comply with additional disclosure requirements, specifically, those contained in Sections 401(e) and 402(e) of the Company Guide and that we failed to comply with Section 132(e) of the Company Guide for allegedly omitting material information in the written submission to the NYSE Amex regarding our request for an appeal. These claims center around the recent press releases regarding our collaboration agreement with Mayo Validation Support Services (“MVSS”) and whether the information contained in our press releases and submission to the NYSE Amex was materially misleading to investors and the NYSE Amex. On April 14, 2011, the hearing with NYSE Amex’s staff was held. We were found to be in non-compliance with various sections of the Company Guide, stemming from continuing losses in each of our five most recent fiscal years, inadequacies in our cash position, stockholders’ equity below the required minimums, and going concern qualifications by our auditors. Pursuant to the Panel's decision, on or before June 23, 2011, we are required to demonstrate compliance with all applicable requirements for continued listing and, in particular, must complete the following actions: · File this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission; · Hold the planned stockholders' meeting at which directors will be elected; and, · Complete our plans for raising additional equity capital, thereby demonstrating our compliance with the NYSE Amex’s stockholders' equity requirement of $6 million and the lack of any financial impairment. Although not contained in the Panel’s decision, as same was not due at the time the decision was rendered, we believe that our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 will also have to be filed by June 23, 2011 to demonstrate our compliance with all NYSE Amex listing standards. 11 If we are deemed not to have regained compliance with the continued listing standards by June 23, 2011, NYSE Amex will continue with delisting proceedings. Although we believe we have made significant strides towards achieving compliance with the standards originally questioned and that we will be able to meet the stated requirements by June 23, 2011, there can be no assurance that such will be the case. If we are unsuccessful in curing our non-compliance with the various NYSE Amex Company Guide sections, our shares of common stock will be delisted from the NYSE Amex. If we are delisted, we will attempt to list our shares of common stock on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board exchanges (“OTCBB”) or “pink sheets”, and listing on such lower exchanges may negatively impact our stock. There are two pending lawsuits against us, which if decided in plaintiffs’ favor may result in the payment of cash damages, additional warrants, and liability for certain of our executive officers. On December 10, 2010, Alpha Capital Anstalt and Whalehaven Capital Fund Ltd. (the “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against us regarding the warrants they received in the Registered Direct Offering (“RDO”) that we completed in November 2009 and the shareholder vote obtained at our December 3, 2010 annual shareholder meeting. The Plaintiffs believe that the effective price of the Notes we issued pursuant to the 2010 Note Financing is lower than what we claim it to be and that such alleged effective price requires a greater reset to the exercise price of the warrants they received in the RDO. The Plaintiffs amended their complaint to allege that the issuance of shares to two of our other note holders in settlement of a lawsuit with such note holders also triggered their anti-dilution rights. Additionally, they allege that we solicited votes against one of the proposals related to the RDO that was proposed at the December 3, 2010 annual shareholder meeting. We do not agree with any of the Plaintiffs claims and intend to defend the case vigorously. If the Plaintiffs prevail, they may be entitled to exercise their warrants for up to 21,800,000 shares of our common stock and the court may award them cash damages, which at this time, have not yet been established or calculated. To date, we have expended a large amount of cash and time on this lawsuit and numerous depositions have been scheduled. Considering the potential outcome of this lawsuit and attorney fees associated with litigating same, management believed it to be in the Company and our shareholders’ best interest to settle this lawsuit. Accordingly, on May 10, 2011, we entered into a Settlement Agreement with the Plaintiffs, which was amended on May 23, 2011. Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement we agreed to issue that number of shares of our common stock equal in value to $10,912,055 at the time of issuance (the “Settlement Amount”); however, we are not obligated to issue the shares until we receive court approval to issue such shares pursuant to the provisions of Section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Act of 1933(“Court Approval”), pursuant to which the shares will be free trading, and NYSE Amex or shareholder approval, if required. Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, upon Court Approval, we shall issue Plaintiffs as many shares of our common stock as possible to reach the Settlement Amount that the NYSE Amex have previously approved for issuance to the Plaintiffs. To account for the time it may take to receive Court Approval, as well as NYSE Amex or shareholder approval of the ultimate number of shares issuable to obtain the Settlement Amount, and therefore their shares, the Plaintiffs agreed to accept a promissory note for the monetary value of that number of additional shares that would be required to be issued to achieve the Settlement Amount upon Court Approval based on a pre-determined formula set forth in the Notes. The notes shall be delivered upon Court Approval; they bear 8% interest and mature 4 months after issuance. We maintain the right to pay the note back in cash or shares of common stock based upon a pre-determined formula set forth in the notes. As amended, Plaintiffs maintain the right to convert the note into shares of our common stock at a pre-determined formula as set forth in the notes, which is subject to adjustment although no shares shall be issued until we have NYSE Amex or shareholder approval of same, if required. Throughout the term of the note, if we no longer need NYSE Amex or shareholder approval, all shares issuable pursuant to the Settlement Agreement shall be issued. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the note will become immediately due and payable. Under the Settlement Agreement, Plaintiffs are entitled to entry of judgment in the amount of principal outstanding, if any, on the maturity date. The Settlement Agreement also contemplates the issuance of additional shares to Plaintiffs or the return of shares to us based upon variances in the market price of our common stock between the date we receive Court Approval and sixty days following the maturity date of the notes. Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, we agreed to pay Plaintiffs’ attorney fees of $75,000. Once the initial shares and promissory note are issued, the parties shall file a Stipulation of Discontinuance of the lawsuit with the relevant court. The Plaintiffs shall return all outstanding warrants to us if the note is paid in full on the maturity date. 12 We received Court Approval on May 24, 2011 and shall issue the required securities; however, the note must be paid on or before September 24, 2011 to avoid a judgment for the remaining principal, if any, at such time. As the outcome of litigation can never be determined, it is possible that the plaintiffs of the case discussed above will prevail no matter how vigorously we defend ourselves, which could result in enormous compensatory damages and actions against certain of our executive officers. While we believe the suit is without merit and intend to vigorously defend against such claim, the outcome of any such litigation is inherently uncertain. All applicable insurance policies may not provide sufficient coverage for the cost of defense and claims under this lawsuit. On March 11, 2011, The Rosen Law Firm, P.A. filed a class action suit, alleging we violated federal securities laws by misrepresenting the relationship between us and third parties involved in our clinical studies of Onko-Sure® test. As of the date of this filing, we hired outside defense counsel, but have not submitted our response to the complaint. We vehemently deny the allegations in the complaint and are proceeding to vigorously defend the suit. Due to the uncertain nature of litigation and the early stage of this lawsuit, we cannot calculate the potential damages – nor does the complaint seek any specific monetary amount of damages. Please see Item 3. Legal Proceedings, below for additional information regarding these two lawsuits. Our publicly filed reports are subject to review by the SEC, and any significant changes or amendments required as a result of any such review may result in material liability to us and may have a material adverse impact on the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The reports of publicly traded companies are subject to review by the SEC from time to time for the purpose of assisting companies in complying with applicable disclosure requirements, and the SEC is required to undertake a comprehensive review of a company’s reports at least once every three years under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. SEC reviews may be initiated at any time. We could be required to modify, amend or reformulate information contained in prior filings as a result of an SEC review. Any modification, amendment or reformulation of information contained in such reports could be significant and result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of the Company’s common stock. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any earnings to support our growth strategy and do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. 13 If we fail to comply with the rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act related to accounting controls and procedures or if the material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal accounting procedures are not remediated, our stock price could decline significantly. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act required annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting commencing December 31, 2007. Our management concluded the consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 and for the two-years ended December 31, 2010, fairly present in all material respects our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Our management evaluated the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 based on the control criteria established in a report entitled Internal Control — Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, our management concluded our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. During its evaluation, as of December 31, 2010 our management identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and other deficiencies as described in Item 9A. As a result, our investors could lose confidence in us, which could result in a decline in our stock price. We are taking steps to remediate our material weaknesses, as described in Item 9A. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude in the future that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could decline significantly. In addition, we cannot be certain that additional material weaknesses or other significant deficiencies in our internal controls will not be discovered in the future. We did not hold a special shareholder meeting by April 30, 2011, and we did not make the May2011 installment payment; therefore, the notes we issued in January 2011 are in default. Pursuant to the terms of the securities purchase agreement we entered into on January 30, 2011, we are required to pay a monthly installment on the notes issued pursuant thereto, starting in March 2011. We did not pay the May 2011 required payment, which is a default under the notes. Additionally, we were required to hold a special shareholder meeting no later than April 30, 2011 (“Stockholder Approval”) seeking stockholder approval for (i) the issuance of all shares of common stock underlying the notes and warrants we issued pursuant to the securities purchase agreement without any restrictions or limitations pursuant to the NYSE Amex and (ii) an increase in our authorized shares of common stock to 400,000,000. We timely filed the preliminary proxy statement on February 22, 2011 and received comments from the SEC that the proxy statement must incorporate our 2010 year-end financial statements by reference. We were not able to file our 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 by the March 31, 2011 deadline or the April 15, 2011 permissible extension deadline and therefore were not able to hold the required meeting by April 30, 2011. Failure to obtain Stockholder Approval by the required dates also constitutes an event of default under the notes. Various other events, including but not limited to, the failure to have a registration statement declared effective by a certain date, certain additional indebtedness, and the issuance of securities that would cause a reduction in the conversion price or exercise price of the notes or warrants, respectively issued pursuant to the January 2011 financing constitute an event of default under the notes. Pursuant to an event of default, the note holders can require us to redeem all or any portion of the note. We must redeem each portion of the note subject to redemption in cash at a price equal to 125% of the greater of (x) the amount of the note sought to be redeemed and (y) the product of (A) the quotient of the amount sought to be redeemed divided by the then current conversion price of the note and (B) the greatest closing sale price of our common stock on any trading day during the period beginning on the date immediately preceding the default and ending on the date the note holder delivered notice to us that he/she wants to redeem the note. Additionally, for all untimely payments, we shall owe a late charge in an amount equal to interest on the notes at the rate of twenty four percent (24%) per annum from the date of the late payment until the payment is made. 14 After our failure to pay the May 2011 installment payment, all of the note holders submitted default/redemption notices to us. Through the notice, each of the note holders exercised their redemption right requiring us to redeem the entire outstanding amount of the note and to pay late charges of 24% until such payment is made. We are currently trying to negotiate a settlement with the note holders regarding this payment, but as of the date of this filing, we have not yet entered into any formal settlements and there is no guarantee that we will be able to enter into any such settlement. Additional events that constitute an event of default under the notes may have occurred, for instance, the issuance of notes to the investors of the Registered Direct Offering we closed in November 2009 pursuant to a settlement of litigation with such investors, but no additional penalties are available. If we are unable to settle the default and related redemption notices, we will have to redeem the notes in a large amount of cash, which will adversely affect our cash flow and in turn, our ability to carry out our operations. Until the registration statement we filed for the shares issued pursuant to the private financing we closed in January 2011 is declared effective we will be subject to liquidated damages. Pursuant to the private financing we closed in January 2011, we entered into a registration rights agreement to register 130% of the shares issued pursuant to such financing. Pursuant to our obligations, we timely filed the initial registration statement on February 9, 2011. However, we were required to have the registration statement declared effective by the SEC no later than April 1, 2011 if the SEC does not conduct a full review on the registration statement and no later than May 2, 2011 if the SEC conducts a full review on the registration statement. We must also keep the registration statement continuously effective until all of the securities covered by it have been sold pursuant to it or until all of the securities registered therein may be sold without registration under Rule 144 of the Securities Act – the effectiveness period. Although we timely filed the registration statement we received comments from the SEC that the registration statement, which we originally filed as a Form S-3, must be converted into a Form S-1. Due to the timing, the registration statement must now include our 2010 year-end consolidated financial statements, which will have to be cleared by the SEC before the registration statement is declared effective. Due to the above, the registration statement has not been declared effective. Although there is a sixty (60) day cure period, failure to meet these timelines by such cure date, constitutes an event of default under the notes we issued in the January 2011 financing pursuant to which the note holder can require us to redeem the note. Additionally, failure to meet these timelines requires us to pay to each note holder an amount in cash equal to one and one-half percent (1.5%) of the aggregate purchase price such note holder paid in the financing; there is no cure period for these fees. Such payment is required on the initial date of the failure and every thirtieth day thereafter (pro-rated for periods totaling less than thirty days) until the failure is cured. If we fail to make such payments, they shall bear interest at the rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%) per month (prorated for partial months) until paid in full. These same payments also apply if, after the registration statement is declared effective, we fail to keep the registration statement effective during the effectiveness period. As of the date of this filing, we have incurred approximately $126,500 in such penalties, which shall continue to increase until the registration statement is declared effective. Risks Related to our Products and Development of our Business Limited product development activities; our product development efforts may not result in commercial products. We are limited in the number of additional products we can develop at this time. Successful cancer detection and treatment product development is highly uncertain, and very few research and development projects produce a commercial product. Products like Onko-Sure® appear promising in the early phases of development may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: • the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results even though it demonstrated positive preclinical trial results; • the product candidate was not effective in treating a specified condition or illness; • the product candidate had harmful side effects on humans; • the necessary regulatory bodies did not approve our product candidate for an intended use; • the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture and commercialize; and • the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing therapeutics. 15 Of course, there may be other factors that prevent us from marketing a product including, but not limited to, our limited cash resources. We cannot guarantee we will be able to produce commercially successful products. Further, clinical trial results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations by scientists, medical personnel, regulatory personnel, statisticians and others, which may delay, limit or prevent further clinical development or regulatory approvals of a product candidate. Also, the length of time that it takes for us to complete clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval in multiple jurisdictions for a product varies by jurisdiction and by product. We cannot predict the length of time to complete necessary clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval. Our business is capital intensive and we may need additional operating capital. The current level of our revenues is not sufficient to finance our operations on a long-term basis. Accordingly, our ability to continue to conduct business and operations is substantially dependent on our ability to rapidly raise additional capital to: (i) finance the costs of additional research and development of our Onko-Sure® test kit (ii) expand sales and the marketing of new and existing products; (iii) fund ongoing selling, general and administrative expenses of our business; and (iv) afford the costs of being a public company. If we do not receive additional financing, we will likely be unable to increase sales of our Onko-Sure® IVD test kits or otherwise support our operating cash needs. In such event we may no longer be able to meet our cash needs in the U.S. to enable us to pay our continuing obligations when due or to continue to operate our business. In such event, we may be required to seek protection under the U.S. bankruptcy laws. At May 20, 2011, we had cash on hand in the U.S. of approximately $2.3 million. We require approximately $550,000 per month for operating expenses to fund the costs associated with our financing activities; SEC and NYSE reporting; legal and accounting expenses of being a public company; other general administrative expenses; research and development, regulatory compliance, and distribution activities related to Onko-Sure® test kit; the operation of a USFDA approved pharmaceutical manufacturing facility; and compensation of executive management and our employees. The 2011 Notes contain certain covenants which include a cash reserve covenant whereby the Company shall maintain in its bank accounts no less than $2,250,000 in unrestricted cash at all times. In addition, the 2011 financing agreement restricts the use of proceeds to pay any other debt obligation. Our monthly cash requirement of $550,000 for operating expenses does not include any extraordinary items or expenditures, including payments for research on clinical trials for our Onko-Sure® test kit and research conducted through CLIA Laboratories. Accordingly, in the future we may require additional operating capital to meet these needs. No assurances can be given we will be able to obtain additional financing in the future, if needed for our operations. Our current products cannot be sold in certain countries if we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval. We manufacture, distribute and market our products for their approved indications. These activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal governmental authorities in the U.S., such as the USFDA and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (formerly Health Care Financing Administration) and certain foreign countries, including some in the European Union;. Currently, we (or our distributors) are required in the U.S. and in foreign countries to obtain approval from those countries’ regulatory authorities before we can market and sell our products in those countries. Obtaining regulatory approval is costly and may take many years, and after it is obtained, it remains costly to maintain. The USFDA and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion to terminate any clinical trials, require additional testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval and mandate product withdrawals. In addition, later discovery of unknown problems with our products or manufacturing processes could result in restrictions on such products and manufacturing processes, including potential withdrawal of the products from the market. If regulatory authorities determine that we have violated regulations or if they restrict, suspend or revoke our prior approvals, they could prohibit us from manufacturing or selling our products until we comply, or indefinitely. 16 Our future prospects will be negatively impacted if we are unsuccessful in pending litigation over the CIT technology. As noted above, we are engaged in litigation with AcuVector and with the Governors of the University of Alberta over our CIT technology. We believe both actions are without merit. Yet, if either AcuVector or the University is successful in their claims, we may be liable for substantial damages, our rights to the technology will be adversely affected and our future prospects for exploiting or licensing the CIT technology will be significantly impaired. We have limited product liability insurance. We currently produce products for clinical studies and for investigational purposes. We are producing our products in commercial sale quantities, which will increase as we receive various regulatory approvals in the future. There can be no assurance, however, that users will not claim that effects other than those intended may result from our products, including, but not limited to claims alleged to be related to incorrect diagnoses leading to improper or lack of treatment in reliance on test results. In the event that liability claims arise out of allegations of defects in the design or manufacture of our products, one or more claims for damages may require the expenditure of funds in defense of such claims or one or more substantial awards of damages against us, and may have a material adverse effect on us by reason of our inability to defend against or pay such claims. We carry product liability insurance for any such claims, but only in an amount equal to $2,000,000 per occurrence, and $2,000,000 aggregate liability, which may be insufficient to cover all claims that may be made against us. If our intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or if we fail to prevail in future intellectual property litigation, our business could be adversely affected. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. To date, there has emerged no consistent policy regarding breadth of claims allowed in such companies’ patents. Third parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates and technologies. In addition, our patent positions might not protect us against competitors with similar products or technologies because competing products or technologies may not infringe on our patents. We face substantial competition, and others may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products before or more successfully than we do. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our products compete with other products or treatments for diseases for which our products may be indicated. Additionally, some of our competitors market products or are actively engaged in research and development in areas where we are developing product candidates. Large pharmaceutical corporations have greater clinical, research, regulatory and marketing resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may have technical or competitive advantages over us for the development of technologies and processes. These resources may make it difficult for us to compete with them to successfully discover, develop and market new products. We have limited sales of the Onko-Sure® test kit and are reliant on our distributors for sales of our products. Virtually all of our operating revenues came from the sale of Onko-Sure® to distributors and research users. Historically, we have not received any substantial orders from any of our customers or distributors of Onko-Sure® test kits. However, in 2010 our U.S. sales increased in comparison to prior years. Although our distributor network is increasing, any projection of future orders or sales of Onko-Sure® test kits is unreliable. In addition, the amount of Onko-Sure® test kits purchased by our distributors can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including market challenges of commercializing a recently approved biotech product, budget cycles and the amount of resources available for marketing programs, demand creation activities, and outreach to appropriate healthcare professionals and targeted markets. 17 We have a limited supply of one of the key components of the Onko-Sure® Although the Company has obtained approval from the USFDA to market the then current formulation of the Onko-Sure® test kit, it has been determined that one of the key components of the Onko-Sure® test kit, the anti-fibrinogen-HRP is limited in supply and additional quantities cannot be purchased. Currently, we have two lots remaining which are estimated to produce approximately 21,000 kits; this is sufficient to fill all current orders. Although we are investigating alternatives or outsourcing of this component so we are in a position to have an unlimited supply of Onko-Sure® in the future, we cannot assure this will be completed. Without such replacement, we will not be able to produce any additional kits once our current supply is used. We are subject to risks associated with our foreign distributors. Our business strategy includes the continued dependence on foreign distributors for our Onko-Sure® test kits. To date, we have not been successful in generating a significant increase in sales for Onko-Sure® test kits through foreign distribution channels in existing markets or in developing foreign distribution channels in new markets. We are also subject to the risks associated with our foreign distributor’s operations, including: (i) fluctuations in currency exchange rates; (ii) compliance with local laws and other regulatory requirements; (iii) restrictions on the repatriation of funds; (iv) inflationary conditions; (v) political and economic instability; (vi) war or other hostilities; (vii) overlap of tax structures; and (viii) expropriation or nationalization of assets. The inability to manage these and other risks effectively could adversely affect our business. 18 Risks Relating to Our Securities There may not be sufficient liquidity in the market for our securities in order for investors to sell their securities. There is currently only a limited public market for our common stock, which is listed on the NYSE Amex and there can be no assurance that a trading market will develop further or be maintained in the future. During the month of April 2011, our common stock traded an average of approximately 3.2 million shares per day. As of May 20, 2011 the closing bid price of our common stock was $0.28 per share. As of May 20, 2011, we had approximately 801 stockholders of record of our common stock, not including shares held in street name. In addition, during the past two years our common stock has had a trading range with a low price of $0.22 per share and a high price of $2.19 per share. Our common stock may be considered a “penny stock” and may be difficult to sell. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define a “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share and, therefore, it may be designated as a “penny stock” according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their shares. 19 The market for penny stocks has experienced numerous frauds and abuses which could adversely impact investors in our stock. Penny stocks are frequent targets of fraud or market manipulation. Patterns of fraud and abuse include: · Control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; · Manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; · “Boiler room” practices involving high pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; · Excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and · Wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the inevitable collapse of those prices with consequent investor losses. Our management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. Our stock price is volatile, which could adversely affect your investment. Our stock price, like that of other international bio-pharma and/or cancer diagnostic companies, is highly volatile. Our stock price may be affected by such factors as: · clinical trial results; · product development announcements by us or our competitors; · regulatory matters; · announcements in the scientific and research community; · intellectual property and legal matters; · broader industry and market trends unrelated to our performance; and · economic markets in Asia. In addition, if our revenues or operating results in any period fail to meet the investment community’s expectations, there could be an immediate adverse impact on our stock price. Our stock price and financing may be adversely affected by outstanding warrants, options, and convertible securities. We have a significant number of warrants and options outstanding and a large amount of convertible notes which “over hang” the market for the Company’s common stock. As of December 31, 2010, we had warrants outstanding that are currently exercisable for up to an aggregate of approximately 27,139,000 shares of common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $0.74 per share; options outstanding for approximately 7,368,001 shares of common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $0.75 per share; and approximately 27,881,381 shares of common stock potentially issuable on conversion of our 2008 Convertible Notes at $0.72 per share and our various issues of 2010 Convertible Notes at $0.72 per share based on 80% of 5-day VWAP for the period ended December 31, 2010 (see Note 8). Exercise of the warrants and options may cause dilution in the interests of other stockholders as a result of the additional common stock that would be issued upon exercise. In addition, sales of the shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants could have a depressive effect on the price of our stock, particularly if there is not a coinciding increase in demand by purchasers of our common stock. Further, the terms on which we may obtain additional financing during the period any of the warrants remain outstanding may be adversely affected by the existence of these warrants as well. Additionally, the existence of, and/or exercise of all or a portion of these securities, create a negative and potentially depressive effect on our stock price because investors recognize that they “over hang” the market at this time. 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Although we are a smaller reporting company, we are voluntarily disclosing that we received SEC comments regarding the S-3/A registration statement we filed on March 4, 2011 and the preliminary proxy statement we filed on February 22, 2011. The comment for the registration statement requires that we file a pre-effective amendment on Form S-1 and the comments for the proxy statement requests that we include our 2010 financial statements. Accordingly, once we file this Form 10-K, we shall file the pre-effective amendment and the amendment to our proxy statement, unless we decide it is more appropriate to wait until after the SEC clears this Form 10-K to file such amendments. 