D. Risk factors The Group’s business is affected by a number of risk factors, not all of which are in Tomkins’ control. This section highlights specific areas where Tomkins is particularly sensitive to business risk. The Group’s financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks not currently known to management, or risks that management currently regards as immaterial could also have a material adverse effect on the Group’s financial condition or results of operations. As a part of the Performance Management Framework of the Group, each business considers strategic, operational, commercial and financial risks and identifies risk mitigation actions. Business unit managers maintain Risk Profiles, including mitigation strategies, which are updated at least annually. Periodically, each business unit reviews the risk profile. Management’s internal Risk and Assurance Services function performs a periodic risk assessment that is reviewed by senior management, who develop plans to mitigate significant identified risks. The findings and plans are presented to the Audit Committee. This framework provides a comprehensive list of key Group risk and control processes and allows the Board to assess the impact of those risks and the effectiveness of those processes. The Group has categorized its risks as those relating to: • the markets within which the Group operates; • the competitive position of the Group and its businesses; and • the financial position of the Group. Risk can be considered either as downside risk (the risk that something can go wrong and result in a financial loss or financial exposure for the Group) or as volatility risk (the risk associated with uncertainty, meaning there may be an opportunity for financial gain as well as potential for loss). Risks relating to the markets within which the Group operates There are a number of risks in the markets in which the Group operates which could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial condition or results of operations: Cyclical nature of markets – The Group’s operating results depend on the conditions of the markets in which it operates, particularly the automotive and construction markets, where demand is ultimately affected by consumer spending and consumer preferences. Trends in these markets can be difficult to predict. In fiscal 2006, approximately 18 percent of the Group’s sales were to the automotive original equipment market. Because the production volumes of automotive original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) depend on general economic conditions and consumer spending levels, automotive production and sales can be highly cyclical. The volume of automotive production in the United States, the Group’s principal geographic segment, has fluctuated, sometimes significantly, from year to year, and such fluctuations give rise to fluctuations in the demand for the Group’s products. In fiscal 2006, approximately 29 percent of the Group’s sales were to the residential construction and non-residential construction markets in the United States. The construction industry in the United States slowed in the second half of 2006 and is expected to continue facing challenges in 2007 with the National Association of Home Builders forecasting that housing starts in 2007 will be approximately 15 percent lower in the United States than they were in 2006. The timing of a recovery in US residential housing now seems unlikely to occur until sometime in 2008, with this end-market showing greater weakness in the first quarter than commentators had predicted. Loss of market share by US vehicle manufacturers – In recent years, General Motors, Ford and DaimlerChrysler (the “Detroit Three”) have seen a decline in their market share for vehicle sales, particularly in North America, with Asian automobile manufacturers increasing their market share. The automotive industry is characterized by overcapacity and fierce competition. In North America it is also affected by significant pension and healthcare liabilities. North American automobile manufacturers have recently announced production cuts for a number of platforms. Because a portion of the Group’s business is derived from the Detroit Three, if this trend of Detroit Three market share loss continues and the Group’s share of business with other vehicle manufacturers does not increase, the Group’s business could be materially and adversely affected. Improvement in vehicle component life – The greater quality, performance and reliability of the components that the Group manufactures improves service life and could affect demand for the products the Group sells through the aftermarket business segment. Regulatory environment – The Group is subject to a variety of environmental regulations in the industries in which it operates, particularly relating to waste water discharges, air emissions, solid waste management and hazardous chemical disposal. Management cannot give assurance that the Group has been or will be at all times in complete compliance with all of these requirements, or that it will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with these requirements. Operations in foreign and emerging markets – The Group operates in a number of geographic regions of the world, including emerging markets, and derives approximately 37 percent of its sales from markets outside the United States. Operations in foreign and emerging markets may subject the Group to the risks inherent in operating in such markets, such as economic and political instability, other disruption of markets, restrictive laws and actions of certain governments and difficulty in obtaining distribution and logistical resources. Should the Group fail to define and adequately execute its strategy in these markets effectively, it may not capitalize on growth opportunities that exist in these markets. Risks relating to the competitive position of the Group and its businesses There are a number of risks to the Group’s competitive position that could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. Industry consolidation may result in more powerful competitors and fewer customers – Some of the Group’s customers and some of its competitors in a number of markets, particularly in the automotive aftermarket, and to a lesser extent in the markets of the Air Systems Components group, are consolidating to achieve greater scale or market share. Such changes could affect the negotiating leverage of the Group’s customers and their relationship with the Group. As the Group’s customers become larger and more concentrated, they could exert pricing pressure on all suppliers, including the Group, which may materially and adversely affect the Group’s margins. 6 Table of Contents Significance of revenues generated from the Detroit Three – Approximately 16 percent of the Industrial and Automotive group’s sales in fiscal 2006 came from direct sales to the Detroit Three. These customers have strong purchasing power as a result of high market concentration and the Group’s reliance on them subjects it to potential pressures on its sale prices that may reduce the Group’s profitability. Price reductions by automotive customers – Approximately 18 percent of the Group’s sales are to OEMs. It is normal practice for such customers to seek reductions in their costs from their suppliers over the duration of any committed supply arrangement. To meet such requests for price reductions whilst maintaining profit margins, the Company has had to achieve corresponding cost savings in the business by strategic sourcing of raw materials and by improving production and manufacturing efficiencies. The Group may be unable to achieve such cost reductions in the future, which could result in lower margins or the loss of customers. Increased competition from low-cost producers – The Group increasingly faces competition from low-cost sources in the developing economies of the world, leading to potential loss of market share and/or reduced margins. Increasing raw material and energy costs – Steel, aluminum, oil based resins and energy are a significant part of the Group’s costs. If costs of these raw materials and energy increase, the Group may be unable to sustain margins if it is unable to pass such increases on to its customers. During fiscal 2006, the price of certain base metals more than doubled which had a particular adverse impact on the Wiper Systems and Fluid Systems businesses, as we were not able to increase prices to offset the increase in costs. Reliance on certain raw materials and suppliers of key components – The Group’s productive processes require that arrangements are in place to ensure continuity of supply of certain raw materials and components. Disruption due to lack of availability of raw material and energy supplies may adversely affect our ability to service our customers and may erode our margins. Dependence on strong relationships with manufacturers’ representatives, distributors and wholesalers – Deterioration in the relationships with manufacturers’ representatives, distributors and wholesalers or a change in the Group’s products’ distribution channels could materially and adversely affect the Group’s sales. Product liability claims due to the nature of the Group’s products – The Group faces an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims. In the event that a failure of a product results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury, property damage or consequential loss, we could face significant liability. Technological changes – The markets for the Group’s products and services are characterized by evolving industry standards and changing technology which may lead to commoditization of its products, allowing for low switching costs, increased pricing pressures and, potentially, loss of customers and reduced margins. Continual development of advanced technologies for new products and product enhancements is an important way in which the Group maintains acceptable pricing levels. If the Group’s core products are displaced or made obsolete, the Group may lose customers, which would have an adverse effect on its results of operations. Dependence on investment and divestment decisions – If the Group were to make inappropriate investment and divestment decisions or fail to implement major projects, such as systems development, product development or plant closures, there may be destruction of value, returns below expectations and /or business interruption. Dependence on human resources strategy – If the Group were to lack a human resources strategy or was to execute that strategy ineffectively there may be an adverse impact on the achievement of management’s long-term strategic objectives. Dependence on the continued operation of the Group’s manufacturing facilities – While the Group is not heavily dependent on any single manufacturing facility, major disruptions at a number of the Group’s manufacturing facilities, due to labor unrest, natural disasters or mechanical failure of the Group’s facilities, could result in significant interruption of the Group’s business and potential loss of customers and sales. Capacity, reliability and security of the Group’s computer hardware, software and telecommunications infrastructure – The Group currently secures its networks by means of back up, hardware, virus protection and other measures, but any systems interruption could lead to a reduction in performance or loss of services. The Group’s systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption caused by human error, network failure, natural disasters, sabotage, computer viruses and similar disruptive events. A breach of network security could result in loss of customers and reduced revenues. Intellectual property rights – The Group’s proprietary technology is protected by patents and trade secrets which could be at risk if: • competitors are able to develop similar technology independently; • patent applications are not approved; • steps taken to prevent misappropriation or infringement of intellectual property are not successful; or • the Group does not adequately protect its intellectual property. Work stoppages or other labor issues at our facilities or at our customers’ facilities – Some of the Group’s employees are members of labor unions. While the Group considers its relations with its employees and labor unions to be good, if the Group is unable to maintain these relations, there may be disputes and work stoppages that could affect production of the Group’s products. Some of the Group’s customers, particularly in the automotive industry, have highly unionized workforces and have been involved in major disputes in the past. If any of our customers experiences a work stoppage, that customer may halt or limit the purchase of the Group’s products which could, in turn, force the Group to shut down its own production facilities supplying these products. Financial Risks Certain financial risks could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Pension plans – The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans, the majority of which are in the United States and the United Kingdom. The schemes were in deficit by $259.8 million as at December 30, 2006. Deterioration in pension plan asset prices or changes to long-term interest rates could lead to an increase in the deficit or give rise to an additional funding requirement. 7 Table of Contents Cash flow from subsidiaries – The Company is a holding company with no independent operations or significant assets other than investments in, and advances to, subsidiaries. Accordingly, it depends upon the receipt of sufficient funds from its subsidiaries to meet its obligations, including its ability to repay any amounts it borrows under the Euro Medium Term Note (“EMTN”) Program or to pay its dividends. The ability of the Group to access that cash flow may be limited in some circumstances. Health care and workers’ compensation – Healthcare and workers’ compensation are provided by certain subsidiaries to current and former employees in the United States. Healthcare costs in the United States are increasing at a faster rate than general cost inflation and these cost increases have to be absorbed in the business. Tax cash outflows – Tomkins operates within multiple tax jurisdictions and is subject to audit in those jurisdictions. These audits can involve complex issues, which may require an extended period of time for resolution. Although provision has been made for such issues the ultimate resolution may result in additional tax charges and cash outflows. Funding growth – The Group may require capital to expand its business, implement its strategic initiatives and remain competitive. At present, the Group’s established sources of funding are through equity, corporate bond markets (through the EMTN Program), bank debt and cash flow from operations. Management believes that the sources of funding currently available will be sufficient to fund the Group’s operations. If management’s plans or assumptions regarding the funding requirements change, the Group may need to seek other sources of financing, such as additional lines of credit with commercial banks or vendors or public financing, or to renegotiate existing bank facilities. It is possible that additional funding may not be available or may be available but not on commercially acceptable terms. Bondholders’ rights – The Group has a EMTN Program under which Tomkins may issue bonds. The Group’s bondholders have the right to require the Group to redeem its outstanding bonds, at par, in the event of a change of control of Tomkins plc and also in the event that the Group’s credit rating falls below investment grade as a result of the Group making either acquisitions or disposals that comprise more than 25 percent of the Group’s operating profit in a twelve calendar month period. The Group may not have sufficient funds to repurchase such notes as required. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates – The Group has manufacturing facilities in, and sells products to customers in, many countries worldwide. The principal currencies in which the Group trades are US dollars, Canadian dollars, Euros and pounds sterling. Currency exchange movements can give rise to the following risks: • Transaction risk – arises where sales or purchases are denominated in foreign currencies and exchange rates can change between entering into a purchase or sale commitment and completing the transaction; • Translation risk – arises where the currency in which the results of an entity are reported differs from the underlying currency in which business is transacted; and • Economic risk – arises where the manufacturing cost base of a business is denominated in a currency different from the currency of the market into which the products are sold. Risks related to the securities market and ownership of ADSs and registered shares Holders of ADSs may be restricted in their ability to exercise voting rights - Holders of ADSs will generally have the right under the deposit agreement to instruct the Depositary to exercise their voting rights for the registered shares represented by ADSs. At management’s request, the Depositary will mail to holders of ADSs any notice of any shareholders’ meeting received from the Company together with information explaining how to instruct the Depositary to exercise the voting rights of the securities represented by ADSs. If the Depositary receives voting instructions for a holder of ADSs on a timely basis, it is obligated to endeavor to vote the securities representing the holder’s ADSs in accordance with those voting instructions. The ability of the Depositary to carry out voting instructions, however, may be limited by practical limitations, such as time zone differences and delays in mailing. ADS holders may be unable to participate in rights offerings and similar transactions in the future - US securities laws may restrict the ability of US persons who hold ADSs to participate in certain rights offerings or share or warrant dividend alternatives which the Company may undertake in the future in the event that the Company does not register such offerings under the US securities laws and is unable to rely on an exemption from registration under these laws. If the Company issues any securities of this nature in the future, it may issue such securities to the Depositary for the ADSs, which may sell those securities for the benefit of the holders of the ADSs. Management cannot offer any assurance as to the value, if any, the Depositary would receive upon the sale of those securities. 8 Table of Contents 