Item 1A. Risk Factors. The factors identified below are important factors (but not necessarily all of the important factors) that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, the Company. Where any such forward-looking statement includes a statement of the assumptions or bases underlying such forward-looking statement, we caution that, while we believe such assumptions or bases to be reasonable and make them in good faith, assumed facts or bases almost always vary from actual results, and the differences between assumed facts or bases and actual results can be material, depending upon the circumstances. Where, in any forward-looking statement, the Company, or its management, expresses an expectation or belief as to the future results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis, but there can be no assurance that the statement of expectation or belief will result, or be achieved or accomplished. Taking into account the foregoing, the following are identified as important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, the Company. 15 RAML Acquisition Related Risks We may not be able to raise sufficient capital to consummate the acquisition of RAML. We need to raise the capital necessary to pay the purchase price through an equity offering or a combination of and equity offering and funding from joint ventures and strategic partnerships. If we are unable to do so we will not be able to close the acquisition. If we are unable to close the acquisition and build the mill a substantial portion of our uranium in New Mexico will not be able to be mined unless someone else builds a mill. We may not be able to consummate the acquisition of RAML during the time frame currently contemplated or at all. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to complete the acquisition during the time frame currently contemplated, on the terms set forth in the Purchase Agreement or at all. The completion of the acquisition is subject to a number of closing conditions, including NRC approval and certain conditions that are outside of our control. In addition, if the acquisition is not consummated by June 1, 2008, either party to the Purchase Agreement may choose not to proceed with the transaction, unless the failure to complete the acquisition results from the failure of the party seeking not to proceed with the transaction to perform its obligations under the Purchase Agreement. If we are unable to provide financial surety in an amount of up to $32 million, we will not be able to obtain the necessary NRC and state of Utah approvals of the acquisition. Before we can obtain the required NRC and state of Utah approvals of the acquisition, we will have to provide financial surety to secure the remaining remediation work of RAML in an amount of up to $29 million for the NRC and $3 million for the state of Utah. If we are unable to provide that financial surety, we will not be able to obtain the approvals and the acquisition will not be consummated. In the future, we may be required to increase the size of our financial surety for this work, and we cannot predict our ability to obtain this additional surety. RAML's environmental liabilities could be materially more than is currently estimated. The estimated costs for remaining remediation work at the Ambrosia Lake and Lisbon mill sites have been approved by the NRC and the State of Utah, respectively, and we believe that the estimates are reasonable. The actual remediation costs could be higher, however; and it is possible that additional reclamation or remediation costs that cannot be currently anticipated or estimated may be necessary to complete the remediation work, and could be material. If significant additional environmental remediation costs are determined to be necessary, we may not be able to fund such costs. A failure to fund these costs and to complete the required remediation work could result in the loss of NRC and/or State of Utah approval, as applicable, and, if such costs are associated with the Ambrosia Lake site, could prevent us from constructing and operating a new milling facility at such site, any of which would prevent us from realizing the benefits of the acquisition and would have a material adverse effect on our business, which could lead to a cessation of our operations. We have agreed under the Purchase Agreement to indemnify Billiton Investment 15 B.V. and its affiliates for all known and unknown environmental liabilities of or relating to RAML and remediation due to conditions that may exist as of the closing date of the acquisition. Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, we have agreed to indemnify Billiton Investment 15 B.V. and its affiliates for known and unknown environmental liabilities of, or relating to, RAML that may be incurred or may arise after the closing date of the acquisition. Those liabilities could be material and could arise as a result of a number of factors, including regulatory requirements or changes in laws regarding known environmental conditions and discovery of previously unknown or 16 undetermined conditions. If we are unable to satisfy our indemnification obligation, if any, with respect to these environmental liabilities, we may be unable to continue our operations, which could result in a loss of an investors' investment in our common stock. After completion of the acquisition, we may not receive an amendment to RAML's existing NRC license or a new license from the NRC that would allow construction and operation of a conventional uranium mill facility in New Mexico. The NRC must issue an amendment to RAML's existing license or a new license in order for RAML to construct and operate a conventional uranium mill facility at its RAML Ambrosia Lake Mill Site. The NRC will consider, among other factors, operational data, environmental impacts, site stability and safety and financial assurance. There can be no assurance as to whether such amendment or new license will be received, the timing thereof, or whether any conditions will be imposed. The RAML assets will not produce any operating revenues until the mill is built and operational unless we can generate revenues from old stope leaching or from 11e.2 operations. Unless we are able to generate revenues through old stope leaching or from 11e.2 operations prior to a mill being in operation at Ambrosia Lake, the acquisition of RAML will generate no revenue or positive cash flow until such mill is built and operating. We estimate that the earliest that this could occur is 4 to 5 years. Our South Texas operations will not generate sufficient cash flow to support the overhead necessary to implement our plan to build the mill at Ambrosia Lake. If we are unable to raise the additional $250 to $350 million to fund the cost of planning and constructing the conventional mill at Ambrosia Lake, we will be unable to build the mill. Our estimate of the cost may be low, and inflation could raise the total cost materially. We estimate the cost to plan and build a mill at Ambrosia Lake will range from $250 to $350 million. The funds raised to pay the purchase price are not intended to fund the construction costs of a mill. We will need to secure the financing for these construction costs through other means. We have no such sources of capital available at this time, although we are pursuing various alternatives, including joint ventures and milling agreements. The funds raised for the purchase price plus other capital raised through joint ventures and other methods will need to be sufficient to support the overhead and other costs associated with implementing our plan for the Ambrosia Lake mill. We cannot assure investors that additional financing will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, we will reduce the percentage ownership of our then-existing shareholders, and those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our existing shareholders. If we are unable to raise sufficient additional capital, we may be unable to implement our plans. If RAML's water rights are limited or eliminated by the State of New Mexico, our plans to build the conventional mill would be materially adversely affected. The State of New Mexico could limit or eliminate RAML's water rights as a result of non-use of these water rights by RAML in recent years. Without such water rights, we would be unable to build and operate a conventional mill. Loss of, or limitation on the use of, RAML's water rights would materially adversely affect our ability to realize the full benefit of the acquisition. If there is a negative outcome to the Tronox litigation, we will be adversely affected. RAML is currently a party to a lawsuit against Tronox Worldwide LLC, or Tronox, the prior owner of the Ambrosia Lake site regarding responsibility for environmental liabilities associated with historical operations at the site. The outcome of the litigation with Tronox will determine the scope of the 17 Tronox's contractual obligation to indemnify RAML and share in the costs of remediation and corrective action for environmental impacts associated with historical milling and mining that occurred at the Ambrosia Lake site. See "RAML Mining Acquisition—Judicial and Regulatory Proceedings Involving RAML—Kerr McGee/Tronox Litigation" for a description of the Tronox litigation and the costs/damages at issue in the Tronox litigation. If the case is determined adversely to RAML, there may be future environmental costs for which RAML will have no recourse against Tronox. Because we have agreed to indemnify Billiton Investment 15 B.V. and its affiliates for known and unknown environmental liabilities of, or relating to, RAML that may be incurred or may arise after the closing date of the acquisition, a failure of RAML to prevail in its action against Tronox would potentially increase the costs associated with additional environmental liabilities that we would be responsible to fund. If we are unable to fund the remediation of these potential environmental liabilities, we may be unable to continue our operations, which could result in a loss of an investors' investment in our common stock. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant costs associated with the acquisition of RAML, whether or not the acquisition is completed. The funding of these costs will reduce the amount of cash available to us to fund other corporate purposes. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant costs associated with the acquisition of RAML, whether or not the acquisition is completed. These costs will reduce the amount of cash available to be used for other corporate purposes, including our South Texas operations and the construction and operation of a mill at Ambrosia Lake. Charges to earnings resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting to the RAML acquisition may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we will account for the RAML acquisition using the purchase method of accounting, which will result in charges to earnings that could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock following completion of the acquisition. Under the purchase method of accounting, we will allocate the total purchase price to RAML's net tangible and identifiable intangible assets based upon their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price over net tangible and identifiable intangible assets will be recorded as goodwill. We will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired in connection with the acquisition. We are required to test for impairment of goodwill on a yearly basis. To the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. These depreciation, amortization and potential impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations. We may not be able to successfully integrate RAML's business with our business. The realization of the benefits of the RAML acquisition will depend in part on the successful integration of technology, operations and personnel. The integration process will be complex, time-consuming and expensive and may disrupt our business if not completed in a timely and efficient manner. We cannot assure investors that RAML's business can be successfully integrated in a timely manner, or at all, or that any of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition will be realized. Risks to the successful integration of RAML include, among others: •the impairment of relationships with employees, customers and suppliers as a result of integration of management and other key personnel; •the potential disruption of our business and the distraction of our management; and 18 •unanticipated expenses related to the integration of RAML. We may not succeed in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the acquisition. Our inability to achieve integration timely and efficiently could result in a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The acquisition of RAML may prove to be worth less than we paid because of uncertainties in evaluations and potential liabilities. In evaluating the acquisition of RAML, we assessed a number of factors, including estimates of mineralized uranium material, mining potential, future uranium prices, operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. These assessments are inherently inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with our assessments, we performed a review of RAML which we believe is generally consistent with industry practices. However, our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our review may not have permitted us to become sufficiently familiar with RAML to fully assess its deficiencies and capabilities. We have a limited contractual indemnification under the Purchase Agreement for certain preclosing liabilities, including certain disclosed environmental liabilities. In the event we discover existing or potential problems which are not covered under the limited contractual indemnification provided for under the Purchase Agreement, we may be forced to incur additional costs, which costs could be substantial. If we are unable to fund any such additional costs, or problems or issues discovered after closing prevent us from realizing the benefit of the acquisition, our business and results of operations could be substantially harmed. If we cannot recover the RAML drill logs and related data specifically related to the RAML Ambrosia Lake Mill Site, we could incur material costs to duplicate such data. If we cannot recover certain drill logs and related data specifically related to Section 35 of the RAML Ambrosia Lake Mill Site that RAML sold to a third party, we could incur material costs to duplicate such data in order to determine the location of the mineralized uranium material located in Section 35. If the contemplated benefits of the acquisition of RAML do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the acquisition of RAML if we do not achieve the perceived benefits of the acquisition as rapidly as, or to the extent anticipated by, financial or industry analysts; or the effect of the acquisition on our financial results is not consistent with the expectations of the financial or industry analysts. Accordingly, investors may experience a loss as a result of a decreasing stock price. Delay in closing the acquisition could adversely affect the Company. If the closing of the acquisition is delayed or does not occur our ability to execute our business strategy would be adversely impacted and, consequently, the marketability and market price of our common stock may decline; the market price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects a market assumption that the acquisition will be completed; and we would incur certain costs and expenses without the benefits associated with the completion of the acquisition. 19 The market price of our common stock after the acquisition of RAML may be affected by factors different from those that influenced the market price of our common stock prior to the acquisition of RAML, including the fact that unless we are able to generate revenues through old stope leaching prior to the mill being in operation, the RAML operations are expected to generate no revenue from operations or positive cash flow until the mill is built and operating, which is not anticipated until between 2012 and 2013. Our business and the current business of RAML differ significantly and, accordingly, the results of operations of the combined companies and the market price of our common shares after the acquisition may be affected by factors different from those that affected the independent results of operations of each of the Company or RAML prior to the acquisition. As a result of the acquisition, our stockholders will be dependent in part upon the performance of RAML. Unless we are able to generate revenues through old stope leaching prior to a mill being in operation at Ambrosia Lake, RAML will not generate revenues from operations or potentially positive cash flow until such mill is built and operating. We estimate that the earliest that this could occur would be in 4 to 5 years. After completion of the acquisition, we may be required to obtain additional permits from the State of New Mexico and may not receive additional permits that would allow construction and operation of a conventional uranium mill facility in New Mexico. The state of New Mexico may require new permits or amendments to RAML's existing permits in order for RAML to construct and operate a conventional uranium mill facility at the RAML Ambrosia Lake Mill Site or as a condition to mining. There can be no assurance as to whether such amendments or new permits will be received, the timing thereof, or whether any conditions will be imposed. RAML maintains its books and records on the basis of International Financial Reporting Standards, which may make it difficult to integrate with our records. If we are unable to integrate RAML's internal controls with our own before the end of 2008, we may have to exclude RAML from our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, and that, in turn, could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. General Risks and Uncertainties If we do not obtain additional financing, our business plan will fail. As of February 29, 2008, we had approximately $5.5 million in cash. We will require additional financing in order to complete our plan of operations. We may not be able to obtain all of the financing we require. Our ability to obtain additional financing is subject to a number of factors, including the market price of uranium, market conditions, investor acceptance of our business plan, and investor sentiment. These factors may make the timing, amount, terms and conditions of additional financing unattractive or unavailable to us. If we are unable to raise additional financing, we will have to significantly reduce our spending, delay or cancel planned activities or substantially change our current corporate structure. In such an event, we intend to implement expense reduction plans in a timely manner. However, these actions would have material adverse effects on our business, revenues, operating results, and prospects, resulting in a possible failure of our business. If Itochu makes a negative investment decision, our Joint Venture with Itochu for the development of the Church Rock Property will terminate, and we will not have a committed source of financing for the development of our Church Rock Property. On December 5, 2006, HRI-Church Rock, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a joint venture with a wholly owned subsidiary of Itochu Corporation to develop jointly our Church Rock property in New Mexico. Under the terms of the joint venture, both parties had until 20 April 2, 2007 to make a preliminary investment decision whether to move forward with the joint venture. The parties then agreed to extend that date to August 1, 2008. If Itochu makes a negative investment decision, the joint venture will terminate and we will not have a committed source of financing for the development of our Church Rock property. Our ability to function as an operating mining company is dependent on our ability to mine our properties at a profit sufficient to finance further mining activities and for the acquisition and development of additional properties. The volatility of uranium prices makes long-range planning uncertain and raising capital difficult. Our ability to operate on a positive cash flow basis is dependent on mining sufficient quantities of uranium at a profit sufficient to finance our operations and for the acquisition and development of additional mining properties. Any profit will necessarily be dependent upon, and affected by, the long and short term market prices of uranium, which are subject to significant fluctuation. Uranium prices have been and will continue to be affected by numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the demand for nuclear power, political and economic conditions in uranium producing and consuming countries, uranium supply from secondary sources and uranium production levels and costs of production. A significant, sustained drop in uranium prices may make it impossible to operate our business at a level that will permit us to cover our fixed costs or to remain in operation. The Navajo Nation ban on uranium mining in Indian Country encompasses approximately 84% of our in-place mineralized uranium material on our properties in New Mexico and will adversely affect our ability to mine unless the ban is overturned. In February 2007, the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or USEPA, determined that Section 8 of our Church Rock property was Indian Country and that the USEPA and not the state of New Mexico has the authority to issue the Underground Injection Control, or UIC, permits for Section 8 that are a precondition to mining. We have appealed that decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. The case has been briefed, and the Court has scheduled oral argument for May 12, 2008. The expansive definition of Indian country adopted by the USEPA may encompass properties owned by non-Indians within Navajo chapters in New Mexico. If that expansive definition prevails, as much as 84% of our in-place mineralized uranium materials in New Mexico could be in Indian Country. In April 2005, the Navajo Nation Council passed the Diné Natural Resources Protection Act of 2005 prohibiting uranium mining and processing on any sites within Indian Country. We believe that the ban is beyond the jurisdiction of the Navajo Nation. However, the ban may prevent us from developing and operating the properties until the jurisdictional issue is resolved. Our inability to obtain financial surety would threaten our ability to continue in business. Future bonding requirements to comply with federal and state environmental and remediation requirements and to secure necessary licenses and approvals will increase significantly when future development and production occurs at our sites in Texas and New Mexico. The amount of the bonding for each producing property is subject to annual review and revision by regulators. We expect that the issuer of the bonds will require us to provide cash collateral equal to the face amount of the bond to secure the obligation. In the event we are not able to raise, secure or generate sufficient funds necessary to satisfy these bonding requirements, we will be unable to develop our sites and bring them into production, which inability will have a material adverse impact on our business and may negatively affect our ability to continue to operate. 21 Our operations are subject to environmental risks. We are required to comply with environmental protection laws and regulations and permitting requirements, and we anticipate that we will be required to continue to do so in the future. We have expended significant resources, both financial and managerial, to comply with environmental protection laws, regulations and permitting requirements and we anticipate that we will be required to continue to do so in the future. The material laws and regulations within the U.S. that the Company must comply with include the Atomic Energy Act, Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978, or UMTRCA, Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, Federal Land Policy Management Act, National Park System Mining Regulations Act, and the State Mined Land Reclamation Acts or State Department of Environmental Quality regulations, as applicable. We are required to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, as amended by UMTRCA, by applying for and maintaining an operating license from the NRC and the state of Texas. Uranium operations must conform to the terms of such licenses, which include provisions for protection of human health and the environment from endangerment due to radioactive materials. The licenses encompass protective measures consistent with the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act. We intend to utilize specific employees and consultants in order to comply with and maintain our compliance with the above laws and regulations. Mining operations may be subject to other laws administered by the federal Environmental Protection Agency and other agencies. The uranium industry is subject not only to the worker health and safety and environmental risks associated with all mining businesses, but also to additional risks uniquely associated with uranium mining and milling. The possibility of more stringent regulations exists in the areas of worker health and safety, storage of hazardous materials, standards for heavy equipment used in mining or milling, the disposition of wastes, the decommissioning and reclamation of exploration, mining and in-situ sites, climate change and other environmental matters, each of which could have a material adverse effect on the costs or the viability of a particular project. We cannot predict what environmental legislation, regulation or policy will be enacted or adopted in the future or how future laws and regulations will be administered or interpreted. The recent trend in environmental legislation and regulation, generally, is toward stricter standards, and this trend is likely to continue in the future. This recent trend includes, without limitation, laws and regulations relating to air and water quality, mine reclamation, waste handling and disposal, the protection of certain species and the preservation of certain lands. These regulations may require the acquisition of permits or other authorizations for certain activities. These laws and regulations may also limit or prohibit activities on certain lands. Compliance with more stringent laws and regulations, as well as potentially more vigorous enforcement policies or stricter interpretation of existing laws, may necessitate significant capital outlays, may materially affect our results of operations and business, or may cause material changes or delays in our intended activities. Our operations may require additional analysis in the future including environmental, cultural and social impact and other related studies. Certain activities require the submission and approval of environmental impact assessments. Environmental assessments of proposed projects carry a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and directors, officers, and employees. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary permits that may be required to continue our operation or our exploration of our properties or, if feasible, to commence development, construction or operation of mining facilities at such properties on terms which enable operations to be conducted at economically justifiable costs. If we are unable to obtain or maintain permits or water rights for development of our properties or otherwise fail to manage adequately future environmental issues, our operations could be materially and adversely affected. 22 Because mineral exploration and development activities are inherently risky, we may be exposed to environmental liabilities and other dangers. If we are unable to maintain adequate insurance or liabilities exceed the limits of our insurance policies, we may be unable to continue operations, which may result in a loss of an investors' investment. The business of mineral exploration and extraction involves a high degree of risk. Few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into production. Unusual or unexpected formations, formation pressures, fires, power outages, labor disruptions, flooding, explosions, cave-ins, landslides and the inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment or labor are other risks involved in extraction operations and the conduct of exploration programs. Previous mining operations may have caused environmental damage at certain of our properties. It may be difficult or impossible to assess the extent to which such damage was caused by us or by the activities of previous operators, in which case, any indemnities and exemptions from liability may be ineffective. If any of our properties are found to have commercial quantities of uranium, we would be subject to additional risks respecting any development and production activities. Most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable deposits of uranium. Although we carry liability insurance with respect to our mineral exploration operations, we may become subject to liability for damage to life and property, environmental damage, cave-ins or hazards against which we cannot insure or against which we may elect not to insure. In addition, the insurance industry is undergoing change and premiums are being increased. If premiums should increase to a level we cannot afford, we could not continue in business. We face risks related to exploration and development, if warranted, on our properties. Our level of profitability, if any, in future years will depend to a great degree on uranium prices and whether any of our exploration stage properties can be brought into production. The exploration for and development of uranium deposits involves significant risks. It is impossible to ensure that the current and future exploration programs and/or feasibility studies on our existing properties will establish reserves. Whether a uranium ore body will be commercially viable depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: the particular attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure; uranium prices, which cannot be predicted and which have been highly volatile in the past; mining, processing and transportation costs; perceived levels of political risk and the willingness of lenders and investors to provide project financing; labor costs and possible labor strikes; and governmental regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting materials, foreign exchange, environmental protection, employment, worker safety, transportation, and reclamation and closure obligations. The only market for uranium is nuclear power plants world wide, and there are a limited number of customers. We are dependent on a limited number of electric utilities that buy uranium for nuclear power plants. Because of the limited market for uranium, a reduction in purchases of newly produced uranium by electric utilities for any reason (such as plant closings) would adversely affect the viability of our business. The price of alternative energy sources affects the demand for and price of uranium. The attractiveness of uranium as an alternative fuel to generate electricity is to some degree dependent on the relative prices of oil, gas, coal and hydro-electricity and the possibility of developing other low cost sources for energy. 23 Public acceptance of nuclear energy is uncertain. Maintaining the demand for uranium at current levels and future growth in demand will depend upon acceptance of nuclear technology as a means of generating electricity. Lack of public acceptance of nuclear technology would adversely affect the demand for nuclear power and potentially increase the regulation of the nuclear power industry. If we cannot add additional reserves to replace production in the future, we would not be able to remain in business. Our future uranium production, cash flow and income are dependent upon our ability to mine our current properties and acquire and develop additional reserves. We cannot assure investors that our properties will be placed into production or that we will be able to continue to find and develop or acquire additional reserves. Competition from better-capitalized companies affects prices and our ability to acquire properties and personnel. Because we have limited capital, inherent mining risks pose a significant threat to us compared to our larger competitors. There is global competition for uranium properties, capital, customers and the employment and retention of qualified personnel. In the production and marketing of uranium, there are approximately 15 major producing entities, some of which are government controlled and all of which are significantly larger and better capitalized than we are. Many of these organizations also have substantially greater technical, manufacturing and distribution resources than we have. We also compete with uranium recovered from the de-enrichment of highly enriched uranium obtained from the dismantlement of United States and Russian nuclear weapons and imports to the United States of uranium from the former Soviet Union. In addition, there are numerous entities in the market that compete with us for properties and are attempting to become licensed to operate ISR facilities. Because we have limited capital, we are unable to withstand significant losses that can result from inherent risks associated with mining, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, flooding, interruptions due to weather conditions and other acts of nature. Such risks could result in damage to or destruction of our infrastructure and production facilities, as well as to adjacent properties, personal injury, environmental damage and processing and production delays, causing monetary losses and possible legal liability. Industry-wide competition for exploration, development, mining and milling equipment could delay production. Competition and unforeseen limited sources of supplies in the industry could result in occasional spot shortages of supplies, and certain equipment such as bulldozers, drilling rigs, logging trucks and other equipment that we might need to conduct exploration development, mining and milling. We will attempt to locate additional products, equipment and materials as needed. If we cannot find the products and equipment we need, we will have to suspend our exploration and development plans until we do find the products and equipment we need. These types of shortages could delay our production. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our business and mineral exploration programs depend upon our ability to employ the services of geologists, accountants and other experts. In operating our business and in order to continue our programs, we compete for the services of professionals with other mineral exploration companies and businesses. In addition, several entities have expressed an interest in hiring certain of our employees. Our ability to maintain and expand our business and continue our exploration programs may be impaired if we are unable to continue to employ or engage those parties currently providing services and expertise to us or identify and engage other qualified personnel to do so in their place. To retain 24 key employees, we may face increased compensation costs, including potential new stock incentive grants. Possible dilution to shareholders. Because we do not have enough capital to execute our business plan, shareholders may be diluted in their ownership if we raise capital. Direct dilution would occur if we sell preferred stock, common stock or debt convertible into common stock, with conversion and other terms which large institutions can negotiate for substantial capital financings which result in more favorable terms than buying stock in the market. Indirect dilution would occur if institutional financing is raised for a subsidiary company. In this scenario, the percentage of the subsidiary held by us would be diluted. Terms of subsequent financings may adversely impact an investors' investment. In order to finance our cash needs, we will have to raise equity or debt in the future. We currently have no authorized preferred stock. An investors' rights and the value of an investors' investment in our common stock could be reduced. For example, if we have to issue secured debt securities, the holders of the debt would have a claim to our assets that would be prior to the rights of stockholders until the debt is paid. Interest on these debt securities would increase costs and negatively impact operating results. Preferred stock could be issued in series from time to time with such designations, rights, preferences, and limitations as needed to raise capital. The terms of preferred stock could be more advantageous to those investors than to the holders of common stock. Over 55% of our common stock is controlled by 5% beneficial holders and management. Over 43.5% of our common stock is controlled by four stockholders of record. In addition, our directors and officers are the beneficial owners of approximately 11.8% of our common stock. This includes, with respect to both groups, shares that may be purchased upon the exercise of outstanding options. Such ownership by the Company's principal shareholders, executive officers and directors may have the effect of delaying, deferring, preventing or facilitating a sale of the Company or a business combination with a third party. The availability for sale of a large amount of shares may depress the market price of our common stock. As of March 1, 2008, 52,305,129 shares of our common stock are currently outstanding, all of which are registered or otherwise transferable. The availability for sale of such a large amount of shares may depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise additional capital through the public sale of our common stock. We have no arrangement with any of the holders of the foregoing shares to address the possible effect on the price of our common stock of the sale by them of their shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We received a comment letter from the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our December 31, 2006 Form 10K/A. We have responded to the their comments and believe we have satisfied their inquiries and questions. We filed an amended Form 10K/A on March 13, 2008 updating the filing for certain clarifying narrative and enhanced disclosure items. 25 