RISK FACTORS Risks associated with recently announced transactions. Copernic announced, on February 12, 2010, that it had amended the terms and conditions of its previously announced private placement with 2208720, Ontario Limited. As described under the section Item 4. Information on the Company Subsequent Events in this report the proposed amended requires a series of transactions to be consummated. Although a break fee is payable in the event of a failure by the investors to close the transaction, there is no assurance that the transaction will close in a timely manner or at all. In addition, the consummation of such transaction will result in a substantial change in the nature of the business of Copernic. There is no assurance that if conusummated such new business shall be profitable in the short or medium term. Our revenues depend to some degree on our relationship with some customers, the loss of which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company had two major customers from which 45% or more of total revenues are derived. Revenues from these customers represented 34% (an ad placement agency settling revenues for thousands of retail transactions) and 11% of the Company’s revenues as compared to 28% and 10% for the same period last year. These customers have traditionally been good payers. Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and our past results should not be relied on as an indication of our future performance. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of many factors related to our business, including the competitive conditions in the industry, loss of significant customers, delays in the development of new services and usage of the Internet, as described in more detail below, and general factors such as size and timing of orders and general economic conditions. Our quarterly and annual expenses as a percentage of our revenues may be significantly different from our historical or projected rates. Our operating results in futu re quarters may fall below expectations. Any of these events could cause our stock price to fall. Each of the risk factors listed in this “Risk Factors” section, and the following factors, may affect our operating results: ● Our ability to continue to attract users to our Web site ● Our ability to monetize new products ● Our ability to attract advertisers ● The amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations and infrastructure ● Our focus on long term goals over short term results ● The results of any investments in risky projects ● Payments that may be made in connection with the resolution of litigation matters ● General economic conditions and those economic conditions specific to Corporations, the Internet and Internet advertising ● Our ability to keep our Web site operational at a reasonable cost and without service interruptions ● Geopolitical events such as war, threat of war or terrorist actions ● Our ability to generate revenues through licensing, subscriptions and revenue share. 9 Table of Contents Because our business is changing and evolving, our historical operating results may not be useful in predicting our future operating results. We face significant competition from Microsoft, Google and Enterprise Search vendors. We face formidable competition in every aspect of our business, and particularly from other companies that seek to provide sophisticated search tools for increased productivity both on the internet, the desktop and wireless devices. Currently, we consider our primary competitors on the desktop to be Microsoft and Google. Microsoft and Google have a variety of products, services and content that directly competes with us. Although we do not directly compete in the Enterprise search market, vendors such as Oracle, SAP and SAS amongst others offer desktop search to complement their existing product line to offer a full service solution. However search technology is evolving to context search, commonly called the semantic web. The company believes that it is well positioned to provide innovative solutions in this evolving market but there are no assurances that these new technologies will be rapidly deployed or that the company can achieve a leadership position. Microsoft, Google and others have more employees and cash resources than we do. These companies also have longer operating histories and more established relationships with customers. They can use their experience and resources against us in a variety of competitive ways, including by product bundling, making acquisitions, investing more aggressively in research and development and competing more aggressively for end users. Microsoft and Google also have a greater ability to attract and retain users than we do because they operate Internet portals with a broad range of products, services and content. In addition Microsoft and Google can vertically integrate with wireless devices by embedding search algorithms in the devices operating system, e.g. Android. To date the company has not attempted to offer products compatible with Apple com puters and wireless devices due the significant differences in operating systems. As the IPhone achieves significant market share, such a limitation may become significant. If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could suffer. Our success depends on providing products and services that people use for a high quality search experience. We believe that keyword search will evolve to semantic search and that context driven search from the desktop will significantly enhance internet searches yielding better results for end users. We believe that the end user will require more control on searches and that the web will become more specialized and fragmented with advertisers more focused on ROI and consummating sales transactions. Although representing a significant opportunity, our competitors are constantly developing innovations in Web search, desktop search and providing information to people. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our search technology and our existing products and services a nd introduce new high-quality products and services that people will use. If we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our products and services on a timely basis, we may lose end users who currently pay us for a leading technology. Our operating results would also suffer if our innovations were not responsive to the needs of our users and are not appropriately timed with market opportunity, effectively brought to market or well received in the market place. As search technology continues to develop, our competitors may be able to offer search results that are, or that are perceived to be, substantially similar or better than those generated by our search services. Our business depends on a strong brand, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our ability to expand our base of users will be impaired and our business and operating results will be harmed. We believe that the brand identity that we have developed has significantly contributed to the success of our business. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing the Company’s brand is critical to expanding our base of users. Maintaining and enhancing our brand may require us to make substantial investments and these investments may not be successful. If we fail to promote and maintain the Copernic® brand, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. We anticipate that, as our market becomes increasingly competitive, maintaining and enhancing our brand may become increasingly difficult and expensive. Maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide high quality products and services, which we may not do successfully. 10 Table of Contents We generate all of our revenue from software licensing, maintenance and subscription fees for the use of our products, and the reduction of spending by or loss of customers could seriously harm our business. If we are unable to remain competitive and provide value to our end users, they may stop promoting our solutions, pay maintenance fees or renew annual subscription fees, which could negatively affect our net revenues and business. Copernic has on-going efforts to maintain high quality products to provide a high degree of confidence to our customer base that Copernic products are leading edge, state of the art solutions to searching for information and that the Company will maintain and renew these products with new enhancements as technology further develops. This positioning improves the brand, strengthens viral marketing and continuously grows our paying subscriber base. We make investments in new products and services that may not be profitable. We have made and will continue to make investments in research, development and marketing for new products, services and technologies. Our success in this area depends on many factors including our innovativeness, development support, marketing and distribution. We may not achieve significant revenue from a new product for a number of years, if at all. For the years 2007 and 2008 and 2009, we did not generate significant revenues from licensing Copernic® software and it cannot be assured that significant revenue will be generated from the licensing of Copernic® software going forward. In addition, our competitors are constantly improving their competing software, and if we fail to innovate and remain competitive our revenues from software licensing will decline. Infringement and liability claims could damage our business. Companies in the Internet, technology and media industries own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As we face increasing competition and become increasingly high profile, the possibility of intellectual property rights claims against us grows. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, expensive to litigate or settle and could divert resources and attention. In addition, many of our agreements with our advertisers require us to indemnify certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase our costs as a result of d efending such claims and may require that we pay damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. An adverse determination also could prevent us from offering our services to others and may require that we procure substitute services for these members. With respect to any intellectual property rights claim, to resolve these claims, we may enter into royalty and licensing agreements on less favourable terms, pay damages or stop using technology or content found to be in violation of a third party’s rights. We may have to seek a license for the technology or content, which may not be available on reasonable terms and may significantly increase our operating expenses. The technology or content also may not be available for license to us at all. As a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense, or stop using the content. If we cannot license or develop technology or content for the infringing aspects of our business, we may be forced to limit our product and service offerings and may be unable to compete effectively. Any of these results could harm our brand and operating results. 11 Table of Contents In addition, we may be liable to third-parties for content in the advertising we deliver if the artwork, text or other content involved violates copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property rights of third-parties or if the content is defamatory. Any claims or counterclaims could be time-consuming, could result in costly litigation and could divert management’s attention. Additionally, we may be subject to legal actions alleging patent infringement, unfair competition or similar claims. Others may apply for or be awarded patents or have other intellectual property rights covering aspects of our technology or business. For example, we understand that X1 has won a patent to provide search results as you type a function utilised by other companies including Copernic Inc. An inability to protect our intellectual property rights could damage our business. We rely upon a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark, patents and other laws to protect our intellectual property assets. We have entered into confidentiality agreements with our management and key employees with respect to such assets and limit access to, and distribution of, these and other proprietary information. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property assets may not be adequate to deter or prevent misappropriation. We may be unable to detect unauthorized uses of and take appropriate steps to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights. Additionally, the absence of harmonized patent laws between the United States and Canada makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights. Although senior management believes that our services and products do not infringe on the inte llectual property rights of others, we nevertheless are subject to the risk that such a claim may be asserted in the future. Any such claims could damage our business. Working capital may be inadequate. For the years ended December 31, 1999 through the year ended December 31, 2003, for the years ended December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2008 and for year ended December 31, 2009, we have reported net losses from continuing operations. On June 30, 2009, the sale of Mamma.com and its AD Network for $5 million was consummated. The purchase price is to be paid in equal payments of $100,000 per month for 36 months beginning at the end of Q3 2009. The remaining balance will be payable at the end of the 36-month period. Management considers that liquidities as at December 31, 2009 will be sufficient to meet normal operating requirements throughout December 31, 2010. In the long term, we may require additional liquidity to fund growth, which could include additional equity offerings or debt finance. No assurance can be given that we will be succ essful in getting required financing in the future or that positive cash flow will be generated in the future. The asset sale of Mamma.com and its AD Network On June 30, 2009, the Company entered into an asset purchase agreement with Empresario, Inc., a private company located in Chicago, Illinois (the “Purchaser”), to sell certain of its assets relating to Mamma.com and its AD network which is comprised of third party publishers of search queries and advertisers who generate search results in an auction process that ranks the highest paid results to be delivered to the search query originator who completes the transaction by “clicking” on a desired result (the “AD Network”), (Mamma.com and AD Network collectively referred to as the “Mamma Unit”) for a total consideration of $5 million plus interest (the “Transaction”). 12 Table of Contents Subject to the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement, the Company has sold its Mamma Unit for $5 million to be paid in equal monthly instalments of $200,000 over 25 months (“Payments”) to the Purchaser. The first Monthly Payment was due on September 15, 2009 and, subject to adjustments pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement, the last Monthly Payment shall be payable on September 15, 2011. Interest shall accrue from the date of purchase on a monthly basis on the balance of the purchase price and any other amount payable under the Asset Purchase Agreemen t at a nominal interest rate of 4% compounded monthly and payable no later than 30 days after the date of the last Monthly Payment. Should the Purchaser make a Monthly Payment of less than $200,000, the Purchaser shall pay an amount equal to the difference between $200,000 and the actual amount of the Monthly Payment made by the Purchaser within 90 days of the date that such Monthly Payment was made to the Company. The shortfall amount shall bear interest at a rate of 4% per annum compounded monthly and shall be payable no later than 30 days after the date of the last Monthly Payment. If the Purchaser fails to perform or observe any one of its obligations under the Asset Purchase Agreement including, without limitation, in the event of (i) a shortfall amount equal to or more than $50,000 becoming due and payable, or (ii) a shortfall amount remaining unpaid by the Purchaser at the end of the 90-day period, the Purchaser be considered to be in default of the Asset Purchase Agreement and the Company may immedia tely terminate the Asset Purchase Agreement. Furthermore, after having given notice, the Company may on its absolute discretion, enter the premises where the Purchased Assets are located and take immediate possession of them. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement concluded on June 30, 2009, the purchaser was to pay 25 equal monthly instalments of $200,000, beginning on September 15, 2009. Interest at the rate of 4% (effective rate at 13.6%), compounded monthly, was to be calculated on the outstanding balance of sale and was payable 30 days after all principal payments were completed. Pursuant to an amended agreement signed on November 12, 2009, the payment terms were changed from 25 to 36 equal monthly instalments of the greater of $100,000 or 85% of the revenues at an annual interest rate of 13.6%, compounded monthly, and calculated on the outstanding balance of sale. The remaining balance will be payable at the end of the 36-month period. That change had no impact on the fair value of the balance of sale receivable initially recorded. On June 30, 2009, a n amount of $4,447,230, which represents the fair value at the transaction date, was booked as Balance of sale receivable. The net book value of the assets sold was nil. As at December 31, 2009, the total transaction fees amounted to $299,441, resulting in a net gain on disposal of assets amounting to $4,147,789. There can be no assurance that the purchaser will not be in default, or that in the case of repossession the value of the assets can be maintained by operating the asset, or that the asset can be re-sold. Goodwill may be written-down in the future. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment annually, or when events or changed circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. Management monitors goodwill for impairment by considering estimates including discount rate, future growth rates, amounts and timing of estimated future cash flows, general economic, industry conditions and competition. Future adverse changes in these factors could result in losses or inability to recover the carrying value of the goodwill. Consequently, our goodwill, which amounts to approximately $3.4M as at December 31, 2009, may be written-down in the future which could adversely affect our financial position. Long-lived assets may be written-down in the future. The Company assesses the carrying value of its long-lived assets, which include property and equipment and intangible assets, for future recoverability when events or changed circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Management monitors long-lived assets for impairment by considering estimates including discount rate, future growth rates, general economic, industry conditions and competition. Future adverse changes in these factors could result in losses or inability to recover the carrying value of the long-lived assets. Consequently, our long-lived assets, which amount to approximately $0.5M as at December 31, 2009, may be written-down in the future. 13 Table of Contents Security breaches and privacy concerns may negatively impact our business. Consumer concerns about the security of transmissions of confidential information including customer profiling over public telecommunications facilities is a significant barrier to increased electronic commerce and communications on the Internet that are necessary for growth of the Company’s business. Many factors may cause compromises or breaches of the security systems we use or other Internet sites use to protect proprietary information, including advances in computer and software functionality or new discoveries in the fields of cryptography and processor design. A compromise of security on the Internet would have a negative effect on the use of the Internet for commerce and communications and negatively impact our business. Security breaches of their activities or the activities of their customers and sponsors involving the storage and transmission of proprietary information, such as credit card numbers, may expose our operating business to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We cannot assure you that the measures in place are adequate to prevent security breaches. Our business is subject to a variety of U.S. and foreign laws that could subject us to claims or other remedies based on the nature and content of the information searched or displayed by our products and services, and could limit our ability to provide information regarding regulated industries and products. The laws relating to the liability of providers of online services for activities of their users are currently unsettled both within the U.S. and abroad. Claims have been threatened and filed under both U.S. and foreign law for defamation, libel, invasion of privacy and other data protection claims, tort, unlawful activity, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials searched and the ads posted or the content generated by our users. Increased attention focused on these issues and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise affect the growth of our business. The application to us of existing laws regulating or requiring licenses for certain businesses of our advertisers, including, for example, distribution of pharmaceuticals, adult content, financial services, alcohol or firearms and online gambling, can be unclear. Existing or new legislation could expose us to substantial liability, restrict our ability to deliver services to our users, limit our ability to grow and cause us to incur significant expenses in order to comply with such laws and regulations. Several other federal laws could have an impact on our business. Compliance with these laws and regulations is complex and may impose significant additional costs on us. For example, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act has provisions that limit, but do not eliminate, our liability for listing or linking to third-party Web sites that include materials that infringe copyrights or other rights, so long as we comply with the statutory requirements of this act. The Children’s Online Protection Act and the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act restrict the distribution of materials considered harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect information from minors. In addition, the Protection of Children from Sexual Predators Act of 1998 requires online service providers to r eport evidence of violations of federal child pornography laws under certain circumstances. Any failure on our part to comply with these regulations may subject us to additional liabilities. Changes in key personnel, labour availability and employee relations could disrupt our business. Our success is dependent upon the experience and abilities of our senior management and our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate other high-quality personnel, in particular for our technical and sales teams. There is significant competition in our industries for qualified personnel. Labour market conditions generally and additional companies entering industries which require similar labour pools could significantly affect the availability and cost of qualified personnel required to meet our business objectives and plans. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our existing personnel or that we will be able to recruit new personnel to support our business objectives and plans. Currently, none of our employees are unionized. There can be no assurance, however, that a collective bargaining unit will not be organ ized and certified in the future. If certified in the future, a work stoppage by a collective bargaining unit could be disruptive and have a material adverse effect on us until normal operations resume. 14 Table of Contents Strategic acquisitions and market expansion present special risks. A future decision to expand our business through acquisitions of other businesses and technologies presents special risks. Acquisitions entail a number of particular problems, including (i) difficulty integrating acquired technologies, operations, and personnel with the existing businesses, (ii) diversion of management’s attention in connection with both negotiating the acquisitions and integrating the assets as well as the strain on managerial and operational resources as management tries to oversee larger operations, (iii) exposure to unforeseen liabilities relating to acquired assets, and (iv) potential issuance of debt instruments or securities in connection with an acquisition possessing rights that are superior to the rights of holders of our currently outstanding securities, any one of which would reduce the benefits expec ted from such acquisition and/or might negatively affect our results of operations. We may not be able to successfully address these problems. We also face competition from other acquirers, which may prevent us from realizing certain desirable strategic opportunities. We do not plan to pay dividends on the Common Shares. The Company has never declared or paid dividends on its shares of Common Shares. The Company currently intends to retain any earnings to support its working capital requirements and growth strategy and does not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Payment of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors after taking into account various factors, including the Company’s financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs and plans for expansion. Rapidly evolving marketplace and competition may adversely impact our business. The markets for our products and services are characterized by (i) rapidly changing technology, (ii) evolving industry standards, (iii) frequent new product and service introductions, (iv) shifting distribution channels, and (v) changing customer demands. The success of the Company will depend on its ability to adapt to its rapidly evolving marketplaces. There can be no assurance that the introduction of new products and services by others will not render our products and services less competitive or obsolete. We expect to continue spending funds in an effort to enhance already technologically complex products and services and develop or acquire new products and services. Failure to develop and introduce new or enhanced products and services on a timely basis might have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial conditio n and cash flows. Unexpected costs and delays are often associated with the process of designing, developing and marketing enhanced versions of existing products and services and new products and services. The market for our products and services is highly competitive, particularly the market for Internet products and services which lacks significant barriers to entry, enabling new businesses to enter this market relatively easily. Competition in our markets may intensify in the future. Numerous well-established companies and smaller entrepreneurial companies are focusing significant resources on developing and marketing products and services that will compete with the Company’s products and services. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, technical, operational and marketing resources. We may not be able to compete successfully against these competitors. Competitive pressures may also force prices for products and services down and such price reductions may reduce our re venues. To the extent that some of our revenues and expenses are paid in foreign currencies, and currency exchange rates become unfavourable, we may lose some of the economic value in U.S. dollar terms. Although we currently transact a majority of our business in U.S. dollars, as we expand our operations, more of our customers may pay us in foreign currencies. Conducting business in currencies other than U.S. dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. This could have a negative impact on our reported operating results. We do not currently engage in hedging strategies, such as forward contracts, options and foreign exchange swaps related to transaction exposures to mitigate this risk. If we determine to initiate such hedging activities in the future, there is no assurance these activities will effectively mitigate or eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations. Additionally, such hedging programs would expose us to risks that could adversely affect our operating results, because we have limited experien ce in implementing or operating hedging programs. Hedging programs are inherently risky and we could lose money as a result of poor trades. For year ended December 31, 2009, the increase of the net results is $160,000. For the continuing operations, the revenues are mostly in US currency and most of the expenses are paid in foreign currencies. 15 Table of Contents Higher inflation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We do not believe that the relatively moderate rates of inflation experienced in the United States and Canada in recent years have had a significant effect on our revenues or profitability. Although higher rates of inflation have been experienced in a number of foreign countries in which we might transact business, we do not believe that such rates have had a material effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. For the next twelve months inflationary pressures are not anticipated, nevertheless high inflation could have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, if it were to occur. Risks related to the economic environment. The activities of Copernic are subject to the influence of the general economic environment. We believe that the current difficult economic situation has negatively affected business activities amongst customers of Copernic and, consequently the demand for our products in 2009. Management continues to focus on the distribution network and corporate sales to reduce its exposure to the less than favourable economy. However there are no assurances that the economic situation will improve in the short term or that management’s offset programs will be successful. 