RISK FACTORS Our revenues depend to a high degree on our relationship with two customers, the loss of which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 20% and 14% respectively of our revenues were derived from agreements with our two largest customers. Revenues from these customers represented 22% and 11% of our revenues in 2006 and 16 % and 11% of our revenues in 2005. Although we monitor our accounts receivable for credit risk deterioration and these customers have been paying their payables to Copernic Inc. in accordance with the terms of their agreements with the Company, there can be no assurance that they will continue to do so or that they will continue to do so at the volume of business they have done historically. Our loss of these customers’ business would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of many factors related to our business, including the competitive conditions in the industry, loss of significant customers, delays in the development of new services and usage of the Internet, as described in more detail below, and general factors such as size and timing of orders and general economic conditions. Our quarterly and annual expenses as a percentage of our revenues may be significantly different from our historical or projected rates. Our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations. Any of these events could cause our stock price to fall. Each of the risk factors listed in this “Risk Factors” section, and the following factors, may affect our operating results: · Our ability to continue to attract users to our Web sites. · Our ability to monetize (or generate revenue from) traffic on our Web sites and our network of advertisers’ Web sites. · Our ability to attract advertisers. · The amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations and infrastructure. · Our focus on long term goals over short term results. · The results of any investments in risky projects. · Payments that may be made in connection with the resolution of litigation matters. · General economic conditions and those economic conditions specific to the Internet and Internet advertising. · Our ability to keep our Web sites operational at a reasonable cost and without service interruptions. · Geopolitical events such as war, threat of war or terrorist actions. · Our ability to generate Copernic Desktop Search (“CDS”) revenues through licensing and revenue share. Because our business is changing and evolving, our historical operating results may not be useful to you in predicting our future operating results. In addition, advertising spending has historically been cyclical in nature, reflecting overall economic conditions as well as budgeting and buying patterns. Also, user traffic tends to be seasonal. We rely on our Web site partners for a significant portion of our net revenues, and otherwise benefit from our association with them. The loss of these Web site partners could prevent us from receiving the benefits we receive from our association with them, which could adversely affect our business. We provide advertising, Web search and other services to members of our partner Web sites. We expect the percentage of our revenues generated from this network to increase in the future. We consider this network to be critical in the future growth of our revenues. However, some of the participants in this network may compete with us in one or more areas. Therefore, they may decide in the future to terminate their agreements with us. If our Web site partners decide to use a competitor’s or their own Web search or advertising services, our revenues would decline. 9 We face significant competition from Microsoft, Yahoo, Google and Ask.com. We face formidable competition in every aspect of our business, and particularly from other companies that seek to connect people with information on the Web and provide them with relevant advertising. Currently, we consider our primary competitors to be Microsoft, Yahoo, Google and Ask.com. Microsoft, Yahoo, Google and Ask.com have a variety of Internet products, services and content that directly competes with our products, services, content and advertising solutions. We expect that Microsoft will increasingly use its financial and engineering resources to compete with us. Microsoft, Yahoo, Google and Ask.com have more employees and cash resources than we do. These companies also have longer histories operating search engines and more established relationships with customers. They can use their experience and resources against us in a variety of competitive ways, including by making acquisitions, investing more aggressively in research and development and competing more aggressively for advertisers and Web sites. Microsoft and Yahoo also may have a greater ability to attract and retain users than we do because they operate Internet portals with a broad range of products and services. If Microsoft, Yahoo, Google or Ask.com are successful in providing similar or better Web search results compared to ours or leverage their platforms to make their Web search services easier to access than ours, we could experience a significant decline in user traffic. Any such decline in user traffic could negatively affect our net revenues. We face competition from other Internet companies, including Web search providers, Internet advertising companies and destination Web sites that may also bundle their services with Internet access. In addition to Microsoft, Yahoo, Google and Ask.com, we face competition from other Web search providers, including companies that are not yet known to us. We compete with Internet advertising companies, particularly in the areas of pay-for-performance and keyword-targeted Internet advertising. Also, we may compete with companies that sell products and services online because these companies, like us, are trying to attract users to their Web sites to search for information about products and services. Barriers to entry in our business are generally low and products, once developed, can be distributed quickly and to a wide range of customers at a reasonably low cost. We also compete with destination Web sites that seek to increase their search-related traffic. These destination Web sites may include those operated by Internet access providers, such as cable and DSL service providers. Because our users need to access our services through Internet access providers, they have direct relationships with these providers. If an access provider or a computer or computing device manufacturer offers online services that compete with ours, the user may find it more convenient to use the services of the access provider or manufacturer. In addition, the access provider or manufacturer may make it hard to access our services by not listing them in the access provider’s or manufacturer’s own menu of offerings. Also, because the access provider gathers information from the user in connection with the establishment of a billing relationship, the access provider may be more effective than we are in tailoring services and advertisements to the specific tastes of the user. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation among our competitors, and so smaller competitors today may become larger competitors in the future. If our competitors are more successful than we are at generating traffic and advertising, our revenues may decline. We face competition from traditional media companies, and we may not be included in the advertising budgets of large advertisers, which could harm our operating results. In addition to Internet companies, we face competition from companies that offer traditional media advertising opportunities. Most large advertisers have set advertising budgets, a very small portion of which is allocated to Internet advertising. We expect that large advertisers will continue to focus most of their advertising efforts on traditional media. If we fail to convince these companies to spend a portion of their advertising budgets with us, or if our existing advertisers reduce the amount they spend on our programs, our operating results would be harmed. Our revenues declined in 2007 and we are experiencing downward pressure on our operating margin, which we expect will intensify in the future. We believe our operating margin may decline as a result of increasing competition and increased expenditures for all aspects of our business as a percentage of our revenues, including product development and sales and marketing expenses. Also, our operating margin has declined as a result of increases in the proportion of our revenues generated from our partner Web sites. The margin on revenues we generate from our partner Web sites is generally significantly less than the margin on revenues we generate from advertising on our Web sites. Additionally, the margin we earn on revenues generated from our partner Web sites could decrease in the future if our partners require a greater portion of the advertising fees. 10 If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could suffer. Our success depends on providing products and services that people use for a high quality Internet experience. Our competitors are constantly developing innovations in Web search, online advertising and providing information to people. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our Web search technology and our existing products and services and introduce new high-quality products and services that people will use. If we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our products and services on a timely basis, we may lose users, advertisers and Web site partners. Our operating results would also suffer if our innovations were not responsive to the needs of our users, advertisers and Web site partners are not appropriately timed with market opportunity, effectively brought to market or well received in the market place. As search technology continues to develop, our competitors may be able to offer search results that are, or that are perceived to be, substantially similar or better than those generated by our search services. This may force us to compete on bases in addition to quality of search results and to expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. Our business depends on a strong brand, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brands, our ability to expand our base of users and advertisers will be impaired and our business and operating results will be harmed. We believe that the brand identity that we have developed has significantly contributed to the success of our business. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing the Company’s brands are critical to expanding our base of users and advertisers. Maintaining and enhancing our brands may require us to make substantial investments and these investments may not be successful. If we fail to promote and maintain the Mamma® and Copernic® brands, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. We anticipate that, as our market becomes increasingly competitive, maintaining and enhancing our brands may become increasingly difficult and expensive. Maintaining and enhancing our brands will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide high quality products and services, which we may not do successfully. We generated a significant portion of our revenues in 2007 from our advertisers. Our advertisers can generally terminate their contracts with us at any time. Advertisers will not continue to do business with us if their investment in advertising with us does not generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, or if we do not deliver their advertisements in an appropriate and effective manner. New technologies could block our ads, which would harm our business. Technologies are being developed that can block the display of our ads. Most of our revenues are derived from fees paid to us by advertisers in connection with the display of ads on Web pages. As a result, ad-blocking technology could, in the future, adversely affect our operating results. We generate all of our revenue from advertising and software licensing, and the reduction of spending by or loss of customers could seriously harm our business. If we are unable to remain competitive and provide value to our advertisers, they may stop placing ads with us, which could negatively affect our net revenues and business. Copernic has on-going efforts to maintain a high quality network of publishers in order to offer advertisers high quality users that will provide for a satisfactory ROI. Therefore, from time to time we cease sending advertisements to what we determine are low quality publishers. This can reduce our revenues in the short term in order to create advertiser retention in the long term. We make investments in new products and services that may not be profitable. We have made and will continue to make investments in research, development and marketing for new products, services and technologies. Our success in this area depends on many factors including our innovativeness, development support, marketing and distribution. We may not achieve significant revenue from a new product for a number of years, if at all. For the years 2006 and 2007, we did not generate significant revenues from licensing Copernic® software and we cannot assure you that we will generate significant revenue from licensing of Copernic® software going forward. In addition, our competitors are constantly improving their competing software, and if we fail to innovate and remain competitive our revenues from software licensing will decline. Volatility of stock price and trading volume could adversely affect the market price and liquidity of the market for our Common Shares. Our Common Shares are subject to significant price and volume fluctuations, some of which result from various factors including (a) changes in our business, operations, and future prospects, (b) general market and economic conditions, and (c) other factors affecting the perceived value of our Common Shares. Significant price and volume fluctuations have particularly impacted the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies including without limitation those providing communications software or Internet-related products and services. Some of these fluctuations appear to be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. The market price and trading volume of our Common Shares have been, and may likely continue to be, volatile, experiencing wide fluctuations. In addition, the stock market in general, and market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. 11 Furthermore, should the market price of our Common Shares drop below the $1.00 per share minimum bid price requirement, our Common Shares risk being delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market®, which would have an adverse effect on our business and liquidity of our Common Shares. Through the month of December 2007 our stock price had steadily declined and as of December 31, 2007 our stock price was $1.41 per share. Brokerage firms may not provide a market for low-priced stock, may not recommend low-priced stock to their clients and may charge a greater percentage commission on low-priced stock than that which they would charge on a transaction of a similar dollar amount but fewer shares. These circumstances may adversely impact trading in our Common Shares and may also adversely affect our ability to access capital. Infringement and liability claims could damage our business. Companies in the Internet, technology and media industries own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As we face increasing competition and become increasingly high profile, the possibility of intellectual property rights claims against us grows. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, expensive to litigate or settle and could divert resources and attention. In addition, many of our agreements with our advertisers require us to indemnify certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase our costs as a result of defending such claims and may require that we pay damages if there were an adverse ruling in any such claims. An adverse determination also could prevent us from offering our services to others and may require that we procure substitute services for these members. With respect to any intellectual property rights claim, to resolve these claims, we may enter into royalty and licensing agreements on less favorable terms, pay damages or stop using technology or content found to be in violation of a third party’s rights. We may have to seek a license for the technology or content, which may not be available on reasonable terms and may significantly increase our operating expenses. The technology or content also may not be available for license to us at all. As a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense, or stop using the content. If we cannot license or develop technology or content for the infringing aspects of our business, we may be forced to limit our product and service offerings and may be unable to compete effectively. Any of these results could harm our brand and operating results. In addition, we may be liable to third-parties for content in the advertising we deliver if the artwork, text or other content involved violates copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property rights of third-parties or if the content is defamatory. Any claims or counterclaims could be time-consuming, could result in costly litigation and could divert management’s attention. Additionally, we may be subject to legal actions alleging patent infringement, unfair competition or similar claims. Others may apply for or be awarded patents or have other intellectual property rights covering aspects of our technology or business. For example we understand that Overture Services, Inc. (acquired by Yahoo) purports to be the owner of U.S. Patent No. 6,269,361, which was issued on July 31, 2001 and is entitled “System and method for influencing a position on a search result list generated by a computer network search engine.” Overture has aggressively pursued its alleged patent rights by filing lawsuits against other pay-per-click search engine companies such as MIVA (formerly known as FindWhat.com) and Google. MIVA and Google have asserted counter-claims against Overture including, but not limited to, invalidity, unenforceability and non-infringement. While it is our understanding that the lawsuits against MIVA and Google have been settled, there is no guarantee Overture will not pursue its alleged patent rights against other companies. An inability to protect our intellectual property rights could damage our business. We rely upon a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark, patents and other laws to protect our intellectual property assets. We have entered into confidentiality agreements with our management and key employees with respect to such assets and limit access to, and distribution of, these and other proprietary information. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property assets may not be adequate to deter or prevent misappropriation. We may be unable to detect unauthorized uses of and take appropriate steps to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights. Additionally, the absence of harmonized patent laws between the United States and Canada makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights. Although senior management believes that our services and products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we nevertheless are subject to the risk that such a claim may be asserted in the future. Any such claims could damage our business. Historical net results include net losses for the years ended December 31, 1999 to December 31, 2003 and for the years ended December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2007. Working capital may be inadequate. For the years ended December 31, 1999 through the year ended December 31, 2003 and for the years ended December 31, 2005 to December 31, 2007, we have reported net losses and net losses per share. We have been financing operations mainly from funds obtained in several private placements, and from exercised warrants and options. Management considers that liquidities as at December 31, 2007 will be sufficient to meet normal operating requirements throughout 2008. In the long term, we may require additional liquidity to fund growth, which could include additional equity offerings or debt finance. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in getting required financing in the future. 12 Goodwill may be written-down in the future. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment annually, or when events or changed circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. Management monitors goodwill for impairment by considering estimates including discount rate, future growth rates, amounts and timing of estimated future cash flows, general economic, industry conditions and competition. Future adverse changes in these factors could result in losses or inability to recover the carrying value of the goodwill. Consequently, our goodwill, which amounts to approximately $7.4M as at December 31, 2007, may be written-down in the future which could adversely effect our financial position. Long-lived assets may be written-down in the future. The Company assesses the carrying value of its long-lived assets, which include property and equipment and intangible assets, for future recoverability when events or changed circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Management monitors long-lived assets for impairment by considering estimates including discount rate, future growth rates, general economic, industry conditions and competition. Future adverse changes in these factors could result in losses or inability to recover the carrying value of the long-lived assets. Consequently, our long-lived assets, which amounts to approximately $2.8M as at December 31, 2007, may be written-down in the future. Reduced Internet use may adversely affect our results. Our business is based on Internet driven products and services including direct online Internet marketing. The emerging nature of the commercial uses of the Internet makes predictions concerning a significant portion of our future revenues difficult. As the industry is subject to rapid changes, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of its results of operations will not necessarily be meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicative of our future performance. It is also possible that in some fiscal quarters, our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In such circumstances, the price of our Common Shares may decline. The success of a significant portion of our operations depends greatly on increased use of the Internet by businesses and individuals as well as increased use of the Internet for sales, advertising and marketing. It is not clear how effective Internet related advertising is or will be, or how successful Internet-based sales will be. Our results will suffer if commercial use of the Internet, including the areas of sales, advertising and marketing, fails to grow in the future. Our business depends on the continued growth and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. The success and availability of our internet based products and services depend on the continued growth, maintenance and use of the Internet. Spam, viruses, worms, spyware, denial of service attacks, phishing and other acts of malice may affect not only the Internet’s speed and reliability but also its desirability for use by customers. If the Internet is unable to meet these threats placed upon it, our business, advertiser relationships, and revenues could be adversely affected. Our long-term success may be materially adversely affected if the market for E-commerce does not grow or grows slower than expected. Because many of our customers’ advertisements encourage online purchasing and/or Internet use, our long-term success may depend in part on the growth and market acceptance of e-commerce. Our business will be adversely affected if the market for e-commerce does not continue to grow or grows slower than expected. A number of factors outside of our control could hinder the future growth of e-commerce, including the following: · the network infrastructure necessary for substantial growth in Internet usage may not develop adequately or our performance and reliability may decline; · insufficient availability of telecommunication services or changes in telecommunication services could result in inconsistent quality of service or slower response times on the Internet; · negative publicity and consumer concern surrounding the security of e-commerce could impede our growth; and · financial instability of e-commerce customers. Security breaches and privacy concerns may negatively impact our business. Consumer concerns about the security of transmissions of confidential information over public telecommunications facilities is a significant barrier to increased electronic commerce and communications on the Internet that are necessary for growth of the Company’s business. Many factors may cause compromises or breaches of the security systems we use or other Internet sites use to protect proprietary information, including advances in computer and software functionality or new discoveries in the fields of cryptography and processor design. A compromise of security on the Internet would have a negative effect on the use of the Internet for commerce and communications and negatively impact our business. Security breaches of their activities or the activities of their customers and sponsors involving the storage and transmission of proprietary information, such as credit card numbers, may expose our operating business to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We cannot assure you that the measures in place are adequate to prevent security breaches. 13 If we fail to detect click fraud or other malicious applications or activity of others, we could lose the confidence of our advertisers as well as face potential litigation, government regulation or legislation, thereby causing our business to suffer. We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent clicks on our ads and other clicks that advertisers may perceive as undesirable. Click fraud occurs when a person clicks on an ad displayed on a Web site for a reason other than to view the underlying content. These types of fraudulent activities could hurt our brands. If fraudulent clicks are not detected, the affected advertisers may experience a reduced return on their investment in our advertising programs because the fraudulent clicks will not lead to potential revenue for the advertisers. Advertiser dissatisfaction with click fraud and other traffic quality related claims has lead to litigation and possible governmental regulation of advertising. Any increase in costs due to any such litigation, government regulation, or refund could negatively impact our profitability. Index spammers could harm the integrity of our Web search results, which could damage our reputation and cause our users to be dissatisfied with our products and services. There is an ongoing and increasing effort by “index spammers” to develop ways to manipulate our Web search results. Although they cannot manipulate our results directly, “index spammers” can manipulate our suppliers like Ask.com, Gigablast.com or Wisenut.com, which can result in our search engine pages producing poor results. We take this problem very seriously because providing relevant information to users is critical to our success. If our efforts to combat these and other types of manipulation are unsuccessful, our reputation for delivering relevant information could be diminished. This could result in a decline in user traffic, which would damage our business. Our business is subject to a variety of U.S. and foreign laws that could subject us to claims or other remedies based on the nature and content of the information searched or displayed by our products and services, and could limit our ability to provide information regarding regulated industries and products. The laws relating to the liability of providers of online services for activities of their users are currently unsettled both within the U.S. and abroad. Claims have been threatened and filed under both U.S. and foreign law for defamation, libel, invasion of privacy and other data protection claims, tort, unlawful activity, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials searched and the ads posted or the content generated by our users. Increased attention focused on these issues and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise affect the growth of our business. The application to us of existing laws regulating or requiring licenses for certain businesses of our advertisers, including, for example, distribution of pharmaceuticals, adult content, financial services, alcohol or firearms and online gambling, can be unclear. Existing or new legislation could expose us to substantial liability, restrict our ability to deliver services to our users, limit our ability to grow and cause us to incur significant expenses in order to comply with such laws and regulations. Several other federal laws could have an impact on our business. Compliance with these laws and regulations is complex and may impose significant additional costs on us. For example, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act has provisions that limit, but do not eliminate, our liability for listing or linking to third-party Web sites that include materials that infringe copyrights or other rights, so long as we comply with the statutory requirements of this act. The Children’s Online Protection Act and the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act restrict the distribution of materials considered harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect information from minors. In addition, the Protection of Children from Sexual Predators Act of 1998 requires online service providers to report evidence of violations of federal child pornography laws under certain circumstances. Any failure on our part to comply with these regulations may subject us to additional liabilities. If the technology that we currently use to target the delivery of online advertisements and to prevent fraud on our networks is restricted or becomes subject to regulation, our expenses could increase and we could lose customers or advertising inventory. Web sites typically place small files of non-personalized (or “anonymous”) information, commonly known as cookies, on an Internet user’s hard drive, generally without the user’s knowledge or consent. Cookies generally collect information about users on a non-personalized basis to enable Web sites to provide users with a more customized experience. Cookie information is passed to the Web site through an Internet user’s browser software. We currently use cookies to track an Internet user’s movement through the advertiser’s Web site and to monitor and prevent potentially fraudulent activity on our network. Most currently available Internet browsers allow Internet users to modify their browser settings to prevent cookies from being stored on their hard drive, and some users currently do so. Internet users can also delete cookies from their hard drives at any time. Some Internet commentators and privacy advocates have suggested limiting or eliminating the use of cookies, and legislation (including, but not limited to, Spyware legislation such as U.S. House of Representatives Bill HR 29 the “Spy Act”) has been introduced in some jurisdictions to regulate the use of cookie technology. The effectiveness of our technology could be limited by any reduction or limitation in the use of cookies. If the use or effectiveness of cookies were limited, we would have to switch to other technologies to gather demographic and behavioural information. While such technologies currently exist, they are substantially less effective than cookies. We would also have to develop or acquire other technology to prevent fraud. Replacement of cookies could require significant reengineering time and resources, might not be completed in time to avoid losing customers or advertising inventory, and might not be commercially feasible. Our use of cookie technology or any other technologies designed to collect Internet usage information may subject us to litigation or investigations in the future. Any litigation or government action against us could be costly and time-consuming, could require us to change our business practices and could divert management’s attention. 14 Increased regulation of the Internet may adversely affect our business. If the Internet becomes more strongly regulated, a significant portion of our operating business may be adversely affected. For example, there is increased pressure to adopt and where adopted, strengthen laws and regulations relating to Internet unsolicited advertisements, privacy, pricing, taxation and content. The enactment of any additional laws or regulations in Canada, Europe, Asia or the United States, or any state or province of the United States or Canada may impede the growth of the Internet and our Internet-related business, and could place additional financial burdens on us and our Internet-related business. Changes in key personnel, labour availability and employee relations could disrupt our business. Our success is dependent upon the experience and abilities of our senior management and our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate other high-quality personnel, in particular for our technical and sales teams. There is significant competition in our industries for qualified personnel. Labour market conditions generally and additional companies entering industries which require similar labour pools could significantly affect the availability and cost of qualified personnel required to meet our business objectives and plans. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our existing personnel or that we will be able to recruit new personnel to support our business objectives and plans. We believe our employee relations are good. Currently, none of our employees are unionized. There can be no assurance, however, that a collective bargaining unit will not be organized and certified in the future. If certified in the future, a work stoppage by a collective bargaining unit could be disruptive and have a material adverse effect on us until normal operations resume. Possible future exercise of warrants and options could dilute existing and future shareholders. As at March 19, 2008, we had 646,392 warrants at a weighted average exercise price of $15.60 and 860,801 stock options at a weighted average exercise price of $2.69 outstanding. As at March 19, 2008, the exercise prices of all outstanding warrants and options were higher than the market price of our Common Shares. When the market value of the Common Shares is above the respective exercise prices of all options and warrants, their exercise could result in the issuance of up to an additional 1,507,193 Common Shares. To the extent such shares are issued, the percentage of our Common Shares held by our existing stockholders will be reduced. Under certain circumstances the conversion or exercise of any or all of the warrants or stock options might result in dilution of the net tangible book value of the shares held by existing Company stockholders. For the life of the warrants and stock options, the holders are given, at prices that may be less than fair market value, the opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of the shares of Common Shares, if any. The holders of the warrants and stock options may be expected to exercise them at a time when the Company may be able to obtain needed capital on more favourable terms. In addition, we reserve the right to issue additional shares of Common Shares or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of Common Shares, at prices, or subject to conversion and exercise terms, resulting in reduction of the percentage of outstanding Common Shares held by existing stockholders and, under certain circumstances, a reduction in the net tangible book value of existing stockholders’ Common Shares. Strategic acquisitions and market expansion present special risks. A future decision to expand our business through acquisitions of other businesses and technologies presents special risks. Acquisitions entail a number of particular problems, including (i) difficulty integrating acquired technologies, operations, and personnel with the existing businesses, (ii) diversion of management’s attention in connection with both negotiating the acquisitions and integrating the assets as well as the strain on managerial and operational resources as management tries to oversee larger operations, (iii) exposure to unforeseen liabilities relating to acquired assets, and (iv) potential issuance of debt instruments or securities in connection with an acquisition possessing rights that are superior to the rights of holders of the our currently outstanding securities, any one of which would reduce the benefits expected from such acquisition and/or might negatively affect our results of operations. We may not be able to successfully address these problems. We also face competition from other acquirers, which may prevent us from realizing certain desirable strategic opportunities. We do not plan to pay dividends on the Common Shares. The Company has never declared or paid dividends on its shares of Common Shares. The Company currently intends to retain any earnings to support its working capital requirements and growth strategy and does not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Payment of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors after taking into account various factors, including the Company’s financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs and plans for expansion. 15 Rapidly evolving marketplace and competition may adversely impact our business. The markets for our products and services are characterized by (i) rapidly changing technology, (ii) evolving industry standards, (iii) frequent new product and service introductions, (iv) shifting distribution channels, and (v) changing customer demands. The success of the Company will depend on its ability to adapt to its rapidly evolving marketplaces. There can be no assurance that the introduction of new products and services by others will not render our products and services less competitive or obsolete. We expect to continue spending funds in an effort to enhance already technologically complex products and services and develop or acquire new products and services. Failure to develop and introduce new or enhanced products and services on a timely basis might have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Unexpected costs and delays are often associated with the process of designing, developing and marketing enhanced versions of existing products and services and new products and services. The market for our products and services is highly competitive, particularly the market for Internet products and services which lacks significant barriers to entry, enabling new businesses to enter this market relatively easily. Competition in our markets may intensify in the future. Numerous well-established companies and smaller entrepreneurial companies are focusing significant resources on developing and marketing products and services that will compete with the Company’s products and services. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, technical, operational and marketing resources. We may not be able to compete successfully against these competitors. Competitive pressures may also force prices for products and services down and such price reductions may reduce our revenues. To the extent that some of our revenues and expenses are paid in foreign currencies, and currency exchange rates become unfavourable, we may lose some of the economic value in U.S. dollar terms. Although we currently transact a majority of our business in U.S. dollars, as we expand our operations more of our customers may pay us in foreign currencies. Conducting business in currencies other than U.S. dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. This could have a negative impact on our reported operating results. We do not currently engage in hedging strategies, such as forward contracts, options and foreign exchange swaps related to transaction exposures to mitigate this risk. If we determine to initiate such hedging activities in the future, there is no assurance these activities will effectively mitigate or eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations. Additionally, such hedging programs would expose us to risks that could adversely affect our operating results, because we have limited experience in implementing or operating hedging programs. Hedging programs are inherently risky and we could lose money as a result of poor trades. In 2007, revenues were increased by approximately $128,000 and total expenses were also increased by $348,000 resulting in a net loss $220,000 due to the fluctuation of foreign currencies. Higher inflation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We do not believe that the relatively moderate rates of inflation experienced in the United States and Canada in recent years have had a significant effect on our revenues or profitability. Although higher rates of inflation have been experienced in a number of foreign countries in which we might transact business, we do not believe that such rates have had a material effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Nevertheless, in the future, high inflation could have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our future growth significantly depends to a high degree on our ability to successfully commercialize the Copernic Desktop Search® product, and any failure or delays in that commercialization would adversely affect our business and results of operations. On December 22, 2005, we completed our acquisition of Copernic, which we believe positioned the Company as a leader in search technologies and applications and as a multi-channel online marketing services provider. Although we have high expectations for the Copernic Desktop Search® (CDS) award-winning product, to date our program to commercialize that product through licensing to large ISP’s and Internet Portals has not generated significant revenue and we cannot guarantee we will obtain such significant licensing revenue in the future. Any failure or continued significant delay in successfully commercializing the CDS product could adversely affect our business and results of operations. ITEM 