Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business activities are subject to significant risks, including those described below. Every investor or potential investor in our securities should carefully consider these risks. If any of the described risks actually occurs, our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Such risks are not the only ones we face and additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. We may not have sufficient cash to fund our operations through December 31, 2013, and if we are unable to raise additional capital, our business may fail and stockholders may lose their entire investment. We had $4.7 million in cash at December 31, 2012. Even with the net proceeds from our February 2013 rights offering, we currently do not have sufficient cash to fund our operations through December 31, 2013 and we will need to raise additional capital to fund our operations through December 31, 2013 and beyond. Additional financing may come in the form of an offering of common stock or other securities, sales of common stock pursuant to our at-the-market financing arrangement with BTIG LLC or borrowings from a bank or one of our stockholders. If additional shares are issued to raise capital, our existing stockholders will suffer dilution to their stock ownership and the value of our outstanding shares may fall. If we borrow more money, we will have to pay interest and may also have to agree to restrictions that limit our operating flexibility. Our ability to obtain additional financing is subject to a number of factors, including the market price of uranium, market conditions, investor acceptance of our business plan and investor sentiment. We have no commitments for additional financing and there can be no assurance that additional funds will be available when needed, or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to change our planned business strategies. Among other things, we may not be able to successfully develop our properties. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise sufficient funds to allow the Company to move forward with its future development. If we are unable to secure additional capital, we would need to curtail business operations which would have a material negative effect on operating results, the value of our outstanding stock is likely to fall, and our business may fail, causing our stockholders to lose their entire investment. 11 Table of Contents The Company is not producing uranium at this time. As a result, we currently have no sources of operating cash. If we cannot monetize certain existing Company assets, partner with another company that has cash resources, find other means of generating revenue other than uranium production and/or access additional sources of private or public capital, we may not be able to remain in business. As a result of low uranium prices, we ceased production of uranium in 2009. While we have approximately 664,000 pounds of in-place uranium mineralized material at our South Texas properties, we are not planning to commence production at any of our South Texas properties until we are able to acquire additional reserves and uranium prices recover to levels that will ensure that production, once resumed, is sustainable in the 300,000 to 500,000 pound range per year. Our ability to begin plant construction and wellfield development in New Mexico is subject to the receipt of necessary approvals for access to the property, availability of financing and activation of our permits and licenses. Our ability to initiate construction and development is dependent on resolution of access issues relating to Churchrock Section 8 (see "—The Navajo Nation's ban on uranium mining in what it considers to be Navajo Indian Country and its opposition to the transportation of radioactive substances over and across what it views as Navajo Nation lands may have a material adverse effect on our future operations" below). In addition, we expect that we will need to secure significant capital for the development of our Churchrock project in advance of beginning development activities on the project. We do not have a committed source of financing for the development of our Churchrock project. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing for this project or our other New Mexico projects. Our inability to develop the New Mexico properties would have a material adverse effect on our future operations. Until we begin uranium production we have no way to generate cash inflows unless we monetize certain Company assets or through financing activities. Our future uranium production, cash flow and income are dependent upon the results of exploration as well as our ability to bring on new, as yet unidentified wellfields and to acquire and develop additional reserves. We can provide no assurance that our properties will be placed into production or that we will be able to continue to find, develop, acquire and finance additional reserves. If we cannot monetize certain existing Company assets, partner with another company that has cash resources, find other means of generating revenue other than uranium production and/or access additional sources of private or public capital, we may not be able to remain in business and our stockholders may lose their entire investment. Our ability to function as an operating mining company will be dependent on our ability to mine our properties at a profit sufficient to finance further mining activities and for the acquisition and development of additional properties. The volatility of uranium prices makes long-range planning uncertain and raising capital difficult. We have deferred activities for exploration, delineation and development of new wellfields at all of our South Texas projects except for the Los Finados/Tecolote project. This decision limits our ability to be immediately ready to begin production should uranium prices improve suddenly. Our ability to operate on a positive cash flow basis will be dependent on mining sufficient quantities of uranium at a profit sufficient to finance our operations and for the acquisition and development of additional mining properties. Any profit will necessarily be dependent upon, and affected by, the long and short term market prices of uranium, which are subject to significant fluctuation. Uranium prices have been and will continue to be affected by numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the demand for nuclear power, political and economic conditions in uranium producing and consuming countries, uranium supply from secondary sources and uranium production levels and costs of production. A significant, sustained drop in uranium prices may make it impossible to operate URI's or Neutron's business at a level that will permit us to cover our fixed costs or to remain in operation. 12 Table of Contents The Navajo Nation's ban on uranium mining in what it considers to be Navajo Indian Country and its opposition to the transportation of radioactive substances over and across what it views as Navajo Nation lands may have a material adverse effect on our future operations. In April 2005, the Navajo Nation ("Nation") Council passed the Diné Natural Resources Protection Act of 2005, 18 Navajo Nation Code §1303, which prohibits uranium mining and processing on any sites within "Navajo Indian Country" as defined by 7 Navajo Nation Code § 254(A). The ban may impede or prevent us from developing and operating our properties located in federally defined Indian Country for two reasons. First, the Navajo Nation takes a more expansive view of its own jurisdiction over "Navajo Indian Country" than does current federal law. Specifically, 7 N.N.C. § 254(A) provides that the term "Navajo Indian Country" applies to all land within the exterior boundaries of the Navajo Indian Reservation or of the Eastern Navajo Agency, Navajo Indian allotments, dependent Indian communities, and all land held in trust for, owned in fee by, or leased by the United States to the Navajo Nation. This may conflict with federal law as codified by Congress and interpreted by the federal courts. The term "Indian Country" is derived from jurisdictional determinations in criminal law enforcement proceedings under the federal Indian Country statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1151, and understood to encompass territory situated within Indian reservations, land owned by Indian Allottees, and land within a dependent Indian community. Second, while the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit has specifically held, en banc, that the Company's Section 8 property in Churchrock, New Mexico is not Indian Country, approximately 32.5% of our in-place mineralized uranium material is located elsewhere in federally defined Indian Country. Consequently, with respect to the Navajo Nation, our ability to mine will be adversely affected unless Navajo law is modified or a waiver or other exemption is provided. In February 2012, the Navajo Nation Council passed The Radioactive and Related Substances, Equipment, Vehicles, Persons and Materials Transportation Act of 2012 which would prohibit the transport across Nation lands of any equipment, vehicles, persons or materials for the purposes of exploring for or mining, producing, processing or milling any uranium ore, yellowcake, radioactive waste or other radioactive products on or under the surface of or adjacent to Nation lands unless the transporter has first (i) obtained Nation consent and a federal grant of easement, (ii) consented to full subject matter and personal jurisdiction of the Nation, and (iii) agreed to terms and conditions regarding clean-up and remediation. The Act would also require the Navajo Nation Environmental Protection Agency ("NNEPA") to promulgate regulations implementing notice requirements, license fees, bonding requirements, route restrictions and curfews for the transportation of radioactive substances over and across Nation lands or otherwise within Navajo Indian Country. The Act, which may conflict with federal laws and regulations governing the transport of radioactive materials, could have a material adverse effect on our future operations, including our ability to transport equipment and personnel to and from our properties and to transport resin from New Mexico to our processing facilities in Texas. In April 2012, the Nation's Division of Natural Resources issued a Notice of Violation and Order to Comply with the Navajo Nation Civil Trespass Act (the "NOV") against the Company's subsidiary Hydro Resources, Inc. ("HRI"). The NOV assessed a $50 civil assessment for alleged trespass on Section 9, Township 16 North, Range 16 West, N.M.P.M. ("Section 9"), which is land held in trust by the United States for the benefit of the Nation ("Trust Lands"). The NOV stated that HRI's Section 8 Churchrock property cannot be reached from New Mexico State Highway 566 without crossing either Section 9 or Section 17, both of which are Trust Lands, and that the Highway 566 right-of-way does not abut or extend into the Section 8 Churchrock property. The NOV demanded that HRI cease entering upon and crossing Section 9 and Section 17 for the purpose of transporting vehicles, equipment and/or personnel to the Section 8 Churchrock property until HRI either (i) provided documentation of a validly existing right-of-way or easement; or (ii) obtained an appropriate right-of-way from the Nation. In July 2012, HRI and the Nation resolved the NOV by entering into a Temporary Access Agreement 13 Table of Contents (the "Agreement"). Under the terms of the Agreement, HRI and its contractors may now access Section 8 through either Section 9 or 17 to support site visits by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and to satisfy other administrative permitting and licensing requirements related to the Churchrock Project. The Agreement does not extend to construction-related or earth-disturbing activities. HRI has further agreed to remediate any radioactive contamination now existing on Sections 8 and 17 surface lands created by prior operators prior to commencing mining operations on Section 8. Under the terms and for the duration of this Agreement, HRI has agreed to the jurisdiction of the Navajo Nation with respect to the subject matter of the Agreement. HRI and the Nation are now actively engaged in settlement negotiations in order to determine effective compliance with the remediation requirement included in the Agreement, including applicable clean-up standards, enforcement, and waste disposal, and to address longer-term surface access to the entire licensed Project site consistent with applicable law. If further agreement with the Nation is not reached, our development plan could be materially adversely affected. Certain of our mineral properties may be subject to defects in title and we are at risk of loss of ownership. Many of our mining properties are unpatented mining claims to which we have only possessory title. The validity of unpatented mining claims is often uncertain and such validity is always subject to contest. Unpatented mining claims are generally considered subject to greater title risk than patented mining claims or other real property interests that are owned in fee simple. Because unpatented mining claims are self-initiated and self-maintained, they possess some unique vulnerabilities not associated with other types of property interests. It is impossible to ascertain the validity of unpatented mining claims from public real property records, and therefore it can be difficult or impossible to confirm that all of the requisite steps have been followed for location, perfection and maintenance of an unpatented mining claim. The present status of our unpatented mining claims located on public lands allows us the exclusive right to mine and remove locatable minerals, such as uranium. We are also allowed to use the surface of the land solely for purposes related to mining and processing the mineral-bearing ores. However, legal ownership of the public land remains with the federal government. We remain at risk that the mining claims may be lost either to the federal government or to rival private claimants due to failure to comply with statutory requirements. In addition, we may not have, or may not be able to obtain, all necessary surface rights to develop a property. We may incur significant costs related to defending the title to our properties. A successful claim contesting our title to a property may cause us to compensate other persons or perhaps reduce our interest in the affected property or lose our rights to explore and develop that property. This could result in us not being compensated for our prior expenditures relating to the property. Exploration and development of uranium properties are risky and subject to great uncertainties. The exploration for and development of uranium deposits involve significant risks. It is impossible to ensure that the current and future exploration programs on our existing properties will establish reserves. Whether a uranium ore body will be commercially viable depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: the particular attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure; uranium prices, which cannot be predicted and which have been highly volatile in the past; mining, processing and transportation costs; perceived levels of political risk and the willingness of lenders and investors to provide project financing; availability of labor, labor costs and possible labor strikes; availability of drilling rigs, and governmental regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting materials, foreign exchange, environmental protection, employment, worker safety, transportation, and reclamation and closure obligations. Most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable deposits of uranium and there can be no assurance that any of our exploration stage properties will be commercially mineable or can be brought into production. 14 Table of Contents The developments at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant in Japan continue to have a negative impact on the uranium markets and public acceptance of nuclear energy is uncertain. The developments at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant following the earthquake and tsunami that struck parts of Japan in March 2011 created heightened concerns regarding the safety of nuclear power plants and the ability to safeguard the material used to fuel nuclear power plants. The impact on the perception of the safety of nuclear power resulting from this event may cause increased volatility of uranium prices in the near to mid-term as well as uncertainty involving the continued use and expansion of nuclear power in certain countries. A reduction in the current or the future generation of electricity from nuclear power could result in a reduced requirement for uranium to fuel nuclear power plants which may negatively impact the Company in the future. Maintaining the demand for uranium at current levels and future growth in demand will depend upon acceptance of nuclear technology as a means of generating electricity. The developments at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant may affect public acceptance of nuclear technology. Lack of public acceptance of nuclear technology would adversely affect the demand for nuclear power and potentially increase the regulation of the nuclear power industry. The only significant market for uranium is nuclear power plants world-wide, and there are a limited number of customers. We are dependent on a limited number of electric utilities that buy uranium for nuclear power plants. Because of the limited market for uranium, a reduction in purchases of newly produced uranium by electric utilities for any reason (such as plant closings) would adversely affect the viability of our business. The price of alternative energy sources affects the demand for and price of uranium. The attractiveness of uranium as an alternative fuel to generate electricity may be dependent on the relative prices of oil, gas, coal, and hydro-electricity and the possibility of developing other low-cost sources of energy. If the prices of alternative energy sources decrease or new low-cost alternative energy sources are developed, the demand for uranium could decrease, which may result in a decrease in the price of uranium. We may not be able to mine a substantial portion of our uranium in New Mexico until a mill is built in New Mexico. A substantial portion of our uranium in New Mexico lends itself most readily to conventional mining methods and may not be able to be mined unless a mill is built in New Mexico. We have no immediate plans to build, nor are we aware of any third party's plan to build, a mill in New Mexico and there can be no guarantee that a mill will be built. In the event that a mill is not built, a substantial portion of our uranium may not be able to be mined. Our inability to mine all or a portion of our uranium in New Mexico would have a material adverse effect on future operations. Our operations are each subject to environmental risks. We are required to comply with environmental protection laws, regulations and permitting requirements, and we anticipate that we will be required to continue to do so in the future. We have expended significant resources, both financial and managerial, to comply with environmental protection laws, regulations and permitting requirements and we anticipate that we will be required to continue to do so in the future. The material laws and regulations within the U.S. include the Atomic Energy Act, Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978, or UMTRCA, Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, Federal Land Policy Management Act, National Park System Mining Regulations Act, the State Mined Land Reclamation Acts or State Department of Environmental 15 Table of Contents Quality regulations and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and the rules and regulations of the NNEPA, as applicable. We are required to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, as amended by UMTRCA, by applying for and maintaining an operating license from the NRC and the state of Texas. Uranium operations must conform to the terms of such licenses, which include provisions for protection of human health and the environment from endangerment due to radioactive materials. The licenses encompass protective measures consistent with the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act. Mining operations may be subject to other laws administered by the USEPA and other agencies. The uranium industry is subject not only to the worker health and safety and environmental risks associated with all mining businesses, but also to additional risks uniquely associated with uranium mining and milling. The possibility of more stringent regulations exists in the areas of worker health and safety, storage of hazardous materials, standards for heavy equipment used in mining or milling, the disposition of wastes, the decommissioning and reclamation of exploration, mining and ISR sites, climate change and other environmental matters, each of which could have a material adverse effect on the cost or the viability of a particular project. We cannot predict what environmental legislation, regulation or policy will be enacted or adopted in the future or how future laws and regulations will be administered or interpreted. The recent trend in environmental legislation and regulation, generally, is toward stricter standards, and this trend is likely to continue in the future. This recent trend includes, without limitation, laws and regulations relating to air and water quality, mine reclamation, waste handling and disposal, the protection of certain species and the preservation of certain lands. These regulations may require the acquisition of permits or other authorizations for certain activities. These laws and regulations may also limit or prohibit activities on certain lands. Compliance with more stringent laws and regulations, as well as potentially more vigorous enforcement policies or stricter interpretation of existing laws, may necessitate significant capital outlays, may materially affect our results of operations and business or may cause material changes or delays our intended activities. Our operations may require additional analysis in the future including environmental, cultural and social impact and other related studies. Certain activities require the submission and approval of environmental impact assessments. Environmental assessments of proposed projects carry a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and directors, officers, and employees. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary permits that may be required to continue our operation or exploration of our properties or, if feasible, to commence development, construction or operation of mining facilities at such properties on terms which enable operations to be conducted at economically justifiable costs. If we are unable to obtain or maintain permits or water rights for development of our properties or otherwise fail to manage adequately future environmental issues, our operations could be materially and adversely affected. Mine closure and remediation costs for environmental liabilities may exceed the provisions we have made. Natural resource companies are required to close their operations and rehabilitate the lands that they mine in accordance with a variety of environmental laws and regulations. Estimates of the total ultimate closure and rehabilitation costs for uranium mining operations are significant and based principally on current legal and regulatory requirements and mine closure plans that may change materially. Any underestimated or unanticipated rehabilitation costs could materially affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Environmental liabilities are accrued when they become known, are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Whenever a previously unrecognized remediation liability becomes known, or a previously estimated reclamation cost is increased, the amount of that liability and additional cost will be recorded at that time and could materially reduce our consolidated net income in the related period. 16 Table of Contents The laws and regulations governing mine closure and remediation in a particular jurisdiction are subject to review at any time and may be amended to impose additional requirements and conditions which may cause our provisions for environmental liabilities to be underestimated and could materially affect our financial position or results of operations. Because mineral exploration and development activities are inherently risky, we may be exposed to environmental liabilities and other dangers. If we are unable to maintain adequate insurance, or liabilities exceed the limits of our insurance policies, we may be unable to continue operations. The business of mineral exploration and extraction involves a high degree of risk. Few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into production. Unusual or unexpected formations, formation pressures, fires, power outages, labor disruptions, flooding, explosions, cave-ins, landslides and the inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment or labor are other risks involved in extraction operations and the conduct of exploration programs. Previous mining operations may have caused environmental damage at certain of our properties. It may be difficult or impossible to assess the extent to which such damage was caused by us or by the activities of previous operators, in which case, any indemnities and exemptions from liability may be ineffective. If any of our properties are found to have commercial quantities of uranium, we would be subject to additional risks respecting any development and production activities. Although we carry liability insurance with respect to our mineral exploration operations, we may become subject to liability for damage to life and property, environmental damage, cave-ins or hazards against which we cannot insure or against which we may elect not to insure because of cost or other business reasons. In addition, the insurance industry is undergoing change and premiums are being increased. If we are unable to procure adequate insurance because of cost, unavailability or otherwise, we might be forced to cease operations. Reserve and other mineralized material calculations are estimates only, and are subject to uncertainty due to factors including the price of uranium, inherent variability of the ore and recoverability of uranium in the mining process. The calculation of reserves, other mineralized material and grading are estimates and depend upon geological interpretation and statistical inferences or assumptions drawn from drilling and sampling analysis, which may prove to be unpredictable. There is a degree of uncertainty attributable to the calculation of reserves, mineralized material and corresponding grades. Until reserves and other mineralized materials are actually mined and processed, the quantity of ore and grades must be considered as an estimate only. In addition, the quantity of reserves and other mineralized materials and ore may vary depending on the price of uranium. Any material change in the quantity of reserves, other mineralized materials, mineralization or grade may affect the economic viability of our properties. Our inability to obtain financial surety would threaten our ability to continue in business. Future financial surety requirements to comply with federal and state environmental and remediation requirements and to secure necessary licenses and approvals will increase significantly as future development and production occurs at certain of our sites in Texas and New Mexico. The amount of the financial surety for each producing property is subject to annual review and revision by regulators. We expect that the issuer of the financial surety instruments will require us to provide cash collateral for a significant amount of the face amount of the bond to secure the obligation. In the event we are not able to raise, secure or generate sufficient funds necessary to satisfy these requirements, we will be unable to develop our sites and bring them into production, which inability will have a material adverse impact on our business and may negatively affect our ability to continue to operate. 17 Table of Contents Competition from better-capitalized companies affects prices and both our ability to acquire properties and personnel. There is global competition for uranium properties, capital, customers and the employment and retention of qualified personnel. In the production and marketing of uranium, there are a number of producing entities, some of which are government controlled and all of which are significantly larger and better capitalized than we are. Many of these organizations also have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and distribution resources than we have. Our future uranium production will also compete with uranium recovered from the de-enrichment of highly enriched uranium obtained from the dismantlement of United States and Russian nuclear weapons and imports to the United States of uranium from the former Soviet Union and from the sale of uranium inventory held by the United States Department of Energy. In addition, there are numerous entities in the market that compete with us for properties and are attempting to become licensed to operate ISR and/or underground mining facilities. If we are unable to successfully compete for properties, capital, customers or employees or alternative uranium sources, it could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. Because we have limited capital, inherent mining risks pose a significant threat to us compared with our larger competitors. Because we have limited capital we may be unable to withstand significant losses that can result from inherent risks associated with mining, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, flooding, earthquake, interruptions due to weather conditions and other acts of nature which larger competitors could withstand. Such risks could result in damage to or destruction of our infrastructure and production facilities, as well as to adjacent properties, personal injury, environmental damage and processing and production delays, causing monetary losses and possible legal liability. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our business and mineral exploration programs depend upon our ability to employ the services of geologists, engineers and other experts. In operating our business and in order to continue our programs, we compete for the services of professionals with other mineral exploration companies and businesses. In addition, several entities have expressed an interest in hiring certain of our employees. Our ability to maintain and expand our business and continue our exploration programs may be impaired if we are unable to continue to employ or engage those parties currently providing services and expertise to us or identify and engage other qualified personnel to do so in their place. To retain key employees, we may face increased compensation costs, including potential new stock incentive grants and there can be no assurance that the incentive measures we implement will be successful in helping us retain our key personnel. Approximately 38.6% of URI's common stock is controlled by two significant stockholders and management. As of March 5, 2013, approximately 38.6% of URI's common stock is controlled by two significant stockholders, including approximately 32.6% controlled by RCF and 4.2% controlled by RMB Australia Holdings Limited ("RMB"). In addition, as of March 5, 2013, our directors and officers are the beneficial owners of approximately 1.8% of our common stock. This includes, with respect to both groups, shares that may be purchased upon the exercise of outstanding options. Under a stockholders' agreement between RCF and the Company, RCF is entitled to have two designees placed in nomination for a seat on the Company's Board of Directors at the 2013 annual meeting, up from one designee at the 2012 annual meeting, and RCF has the right to participate in future equity offerings by the Company in proportion to its percentage ownership of the outstanding shares of the Company's common stock. Such ownership by the Company's principal stockholders, executive officers and 18 Table of Contents directors, and the terms of the stockholders' agreement with RCF, may have the effect of delaying, deferring, preventing or facilitating a sale of the Company or a business combination with a third party. The availability for sale of a large amount of shares may depress the market price of URI's common stock. As of March 5, 2013, 2012, approximately 19.9 million shares of our common stock were outstanding, all of which, except for the shares owned by RCF, RMB and Roth Capital Partners, LLC are freely transferable. As of March 5, 2013, approximately 0.4 million shares of our common stock were reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants. The availability for sale of a large amount of shares by any one or several stockholders may depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise additional capital through the public sale of our common stock. We have has no arrangement with any of the holders of the foregoing shares to address the possible effect on the price of our common stock of the sale by them of their shares. Terms of subsequent financings may adversely impact our stockholders. In order to finance our future production plans and working capital needs, we may have to raise funds through the issuance of equity or debt securities. Depending on the type and the terms of any financing we pursue, stockholders' rights and the value of their investment in our common stock could be reduced. A financing could involve one or more types of securities including common stock, convertible debt or warrants to acquire common stock. These securities could be issued at or below the then prevailing market price for our common stock. We currently have no authorized preferred stock. In addition, if we have to issue secured debt securities, the holders of the debt would have a claim to our assets that would be prior to the rights of stockholders until the debt is paid. Interest on these debt securities would increase costs and negatively impact operating results. If the issuance of new securities results in diminished rights to holders of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. The benefits of integrating the Company and Neutron may not be realized. We acquired Neutron on August 31, 2012, through the merger of URI Merger Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, with and into Neutron, with Neutron surviving the merger as an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. To be successful after the merger, we will need to combine and integrate the operations of the Company and Neutron into one company. Integration will require substantial management attention and could detract attention from the day-to-day business of the combined company. We could encounter difficulties in the integration process, such as the need to revisit assumptions about reserves, future production, revenues, capital expenditures and operating costs, including synergies, the loss of key employees or commercial relationships or the need to address unanticipated liabilities. If we cannot integrate our and Neutron's businesses successfully, we may fail to realize the expected benefits of the merger. We may fail to implement an effective system of internal controls with respect to Neutron, which could harm our business. If we are not able to establish and maintain effective internal controls with respect to Neutron in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and may be subject to sanctions or investigation by, among others, the NASDAQ Capital Market. Any such action could harm our business or investors' confidence in the Company, and could cause our stock price to fall. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 19 Table of Contents 