Item 1A. Risk Factors. The factors identified below are important factors (but not necessarily all of the important factors) that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, the Company. Where any such forward-looking statement includes a statement of the assumptions or bases underlying such forward-looking statement, we caution that, while we believe such assumptions or bases to be reasonable and make them in good faith, assumed facts or bases almost always vary from actual results, and the differences between assumed facts or bases and actual results can be material, depending upon the circumstances. Where, in any forward-looking statement, the Company, or its management, expresses an expectation or belief as to the future results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis, but there can be no assurance that the statement of expectation or belief will result, or be achieved or accomplished. Taking into account the foregoing, the following are identified as important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, the Company. Our ability to function as an operating mining company is dependent on our ability to mine our properties at a profit sufficient to finance further mining activities and for the acquisition and development of additional properties. Our ability to operate on a positive cash flow basis is dependent on mining sufficient quantities of uranium at a profit sufficient to finance our operations and for the acquisition and development of additional mining properties. The Navajo Nation ban on uranium mining in Indian country encompasses some of our properties in New Mexico and will adversely affect our ability to mine unless the ban is overturned. In April 2005, the Navajo Nation Council passed the Diné Natural Resources Protection Act of 2005 prohibiting uranium mining and processing on any sites within Indian Country. Some of our New Mexico properties have been determined to be Indian country and the status of others as Indian country is in dispute. We believe that the ban is beyond the jurisdiction of the Navajo Nation. However, the ban may prevent us from developing and operating the properties until the jurisdictional issues is resolved. In February 2007 the USEPA determined that Section 8 of our Churchrock property was Indian country and that the USEPA and not the state of New Mexico has the authority to issue the UIC permits for Section 8 that are a precondition to mining. We are appealing that decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. Our inability to obtain financial surety would threaten our ability to continue in business. Future bonding requirements will increase significantly when future development and production occurs at our sites in Texas and New Mexico. The amount of the bonding for each producing property is subject to annual review and revision by regulators. We expect that the issuer of the bonds will require us to provide cash collateral equal to the face amount of the bond to secure the obligation. Because we have limited capital, inherent mining risks pose a significant threat to us. Because we are small with limited capital, we are unable to withstand significant losses that can result from inherent risks associated with mining, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, flooding, interruptions due to weather conditions and other acts of nature. Such risks could result in damage to or destruction of our wellfield infrastructure and production facilities, as well as to adjacent properties, 11 personal injury, environmental damage and processing and production delays, causing monetary losses and possible legal liability. More stringent federal and state regulations could adversely affect our business. If we are unable to obtain or maintain permits or water rights for development of our properties or otherwise fail to manage adequately future environmental issues, our operations could be materially and adversely affected. We have expended significant resources, both financial and managerial, to comply with environmental protection laws, regulations and permitting requirements and we anticipate that we will be required to continue to do so in the future. Although we believe our properties comply in all material respects with all relevant permits, licenses and regulations pertaining to worker health and safety as well as those pertaining to the environment and radioactive materials, the historical trend toward stricter environmental regulation may continue. The volatility of uranium prices makes our business uncertain. The volatility of uranium prices makes long-range planning uncertain and raising capital difficult. The price of uranium is affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including the demand for nuclear power, political and economic conditions, and legislation and production and costs of production of our competitors. The only market for uranium is nuclear power plants world wide, and there are only a few customers. We are dependent on a small number of electric utilities that buy uranium for nuclear power plants. Because of the limited market for uranium, a reduction in purchases of newly-produced uranium by electric utilities for any reason (such as plant closings) would adversely affect the viability of our business. The price of alternative energy sources affects the demand for and price of uranium. The attractiveness of uranium as an alternative fuel to generate electricity is to some degree dependent on the prices of oil, gas, coal and hydro-electricity and the possibility of developing other low cost sources for energy. Public acceptance of nuclear energy is uncertain. Maintaining the demand for uranium at current levels and future growth in demand will depend upon acceptance of nuclear technology as a means of generating electricity. Lack of public acceptance of nuclear technology would adversely affect the demand for nuclear power and increase the regulation of the nuclear power industry. Our inability to obtain insurance would threaten our ability to continue in business. We currently have liability and property damage insurance that we believe is adequate. However, the insurance industry is undergoing change and premiums are being increased. If premiums should increase to a level we cannot afford, we could not continue in business. If we cannot add additional reserves to replace production in the future, we would not be able to remain in business. Our future uranium production, cash flow and income are dependent upon our ability to mine our current properties and acquire and develop additional reserves. There can be no assurance that our properties will be placed into production or that we will be able to continue to find and develop or acquire additional reserves. Competition from better-capitalized companies affects prices and our ability to acquire properties and personnel. There is global competition for uranium properties, capital, customers and the employment and retention or qualified personnel. In the production and marketing of uranium there are about 15 major 12 producing entities, some of which are government controlled and all of which are significantly larger and better capitalized than we are. We also compete with uranium recovered from the de-enrichment of highly enriched uranium obtained from the dismantlement of United States and Russian nuclear weapons and imports to the United States of uranium from the former Soviet Union. Industry-wide competition for exploration and development tools could delay production. Intense industry-wide competition for exploration and development tools can create the shortage of drill rigs, logging trucks and other equipment. Such shortages could delay our production. Competition from numerous small companies affects our ability to acquire properties and personnel and retain existing personnel. There are numerous entities in the market that compete with us for properties and are attempting to become licensed to operate ISR facilities. In addition, we are aware several entities have expressed interest in hiring certain of our employees. To retain key employees, we may face increased compensation costs, including potential new option grants. Over 56% of our shares of Common Stock is controlled by Principal Stockholders and Management. Over 56% of our Common Stock is controlled by six stockholders of record. In addition, our directors and officers are the beneficial owners of about 6.8% of our Common Stock. This includes with respect to both groups shares that may be purchased upon the exercise of outstanding options. Such ownership by the Company’s principal shareholders, executive officers and directors may have the effect of delaying, deferring, preventing or facilitating a sale of the Company or a business combination with a third party. The availability for sale of a large amount of shares may depress the market price for our Common Stock. The Company has 51,797,339 shares of Common Stock currently outstanding, all of which are transferable under a Registration Statement on Form S-1, S-8 prospectuses or otherwise. The availability for sale of such a large amount of shares may depress the market price for our Common Stock and impair our ability to raise additional capital through the public sale of Common Stock. The Company has no arrangement with any of the holders of the foregoing shares to address the possible effect on the price of the Company’s Common Stock of the sale by them of their shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 