Item 1A. Risk Factors We cannot identify nor can we control all circumstances that could occur in the future that may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Some of the circumstances that may occur and may impair our business are described below. If any of the following circumstances were to occur, our business could be materially adversely affected. We have limited sources of liquidity and no working capital facility or other credit facility and therefore will not be able to service all of our obligations, absent changes in our operations or capital structure. Our sources of available liquidity is our cash (approximately $8,300,000 as of March 15, 2006). Absent changes to our capital structure and station ownership we will not have enough cash to make the interest payment of $19,744,000 on our Notes on June 1, 2006 or otherwise service our existing obligations on an ongoing basis. Lack of liquidity would have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy and continue as a going concern. We have engaged the services of Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin as our financial advisor to assist us in the evaluation of strategic options and to advise us on available financing and capital restructuring alternatives. There can be no assurance that any transaction will occur or, if one is undertaken, of its potential terms or timing. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis for further details. Our principal strategy, seeking growth through acquisitions of television stations and operating arrangements with in-market television stations, may not be achievable absent dispositions of certain of our television stations. Our ability to make acquisitions is dependent on our having successfully consummated asset dispositions. We may not be able to find buyers willing to acquire our stations at prices and on terms and conditions satisfactory to us, or at all. The current uncertainty in the regulatory environment surrounding multiple station ownership in certain of our existing television station markets may impede the sale of these stations at the present time. We also pursue selective acquisitions of television stations with the goal of improving their operating performance by applying our management’s business and growth strategy. However, we may not be successful in identifying attractive acquisition targets. Future acquisitions involve inherent risks, such as increasing leverage and debt service requirements and combining company cultures and facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, particularly during the period immediately following any acquisitions. We may not be able to successfully implement effective cost controls, increase advertising revenues or increase audience share with respect to any acquired station. In addition, our future acquisitions may result in our assumption of unexpected liabilities and may result in the diversion of management’s attention from the operation of our business. In addition, television station acquisitions are subject to the approval of the FCC and, potentially, other regulatory authorities. For example, FCC rules restrict the number of television stations an entity may own within a single market. See “Business—Television Duopoly Rule’’ under Item 1. The need for FCC and other regulatory approvals could restrict our ability to consummate future transactions and potentially require us to divest some television stations if the FCC or the Department of Justice believes that a proposed acquisition would result in excessive concentration in a market, even if the proposed combinations may otherwise comply with FCC ownership limitations. The Indenture, which governs our Notes, limits, and future debt obligations may limit, our ability to pursue our acquisition strategy, including certain limitations in the Indenture with respect to acquisitions for cash. If our acquisition strategy is not successful, our ability to make payments on the Notes could be adversely affected. Even if our acquisition strategy is successful, we may be unable to make payments on the Notes due to events which are beyond our control such as prevailing business, financial and economic conditions. Our failure to successfully implement our business strategy may negatively affect our future liquidity and materially adversely affect us and our ability to make payments on the Notes. The FCC could reverse, rescind or otherwise modify the Media Bureau’s consent to the assignment of the license of KDLH-TV to Malara Broadcast Group. In May 2004, an application was filed with the FCC seeking consent to assign the license of television station KDLH to a subsidiary of Malara. A petition to deny the application was filed with the FCC jointly by two competing television station licensees in the Duluth market asserting that the Company will have a prohibited ownership interest in KDLH by virtue of the operating arrangement between Malara and the Company. The FCC’s Media Bureau (“Bureau”) denied the petition and granted the assignment application in December 2004. In January 2005, the petitioning broadcasters filed an application for review seeking Commission-level review of the Bureau’s decision. Malara filed an opposition to the application for review, and the petitioning broadcasters filed a response to that opposition. The FCC has not yet ruled on the application for review. Although we believe that the application for review is without merit and anticipate that the FCC will affirm the grant of the assignment application for KDLH, it is not possible to predict how the FCC will rule on the application for review. It also is not possible to predict any remedial action or possible sanction that may be imposed by the FCC in the event that it grants the application for review. FCC grant of the applications for review ultimately could result in a reformation or rescission of these agreements, the assignment of the KDLH license back to New Vision Group, L.L.C., or a sale by Malara of its ownership of KDLH. 21 FCC ownership rules and policies may limit our ability to create or maintain arrangements with in-market television stations, which would impair our strategy. We would like to own or provide services to affiliated television stations with a strong local news presence, particularly in television markets in which we already operate a station. We are actively pursuing this strategy which includes the creation of arrangements with in-market television stations through ownership of one station and a combination of agreements (such as shared services, local services, sales representation, marketing, operating, guarantees or other agreements and arrangements) with a second station in that market. While these agreements take varying forms, a typical local services agreement, for example, is an agreement between two separately owned television stations serving the same market, whereby the owner of one station provides operational assistance to the other station, subject to ultimate editorial and other controls being exercised by the latter station’s owner. By operating or entering into a local services agreement with a second television station in a market in which we own a station, we believe that we could achieve significant operational efficiencies, broaden our audience reach and enhance our ability to capture more advertising spending in a given market. While these types of arrangements have been approved by the FCC pursuant to delegated authority as consistent with current FCC rules and policies, there can be no assurances that the FCC will continue to permit agreements as a means of creating opportunities for arrangements with in-market television stations, that the FCC will not assert its authority over the FCC staff in this area (which may result in modifications to current policy) or that the FCC’s treatment of these types of arrangements we may enter into will be consistent with the treatment described above or on terms that will permit us to realize the benefits described above. Specifically, the FCC may change its current policies with regard to the regulatory treatment of and acceptability of certain terms and conditions of such arrangements for a variety of reasons, such as in response to direction from legislators or public opinion, in a way that prevents such arrangements or requires significant modifications to the financial or other material terms of such arrangements. For example, the FCC recently initiated a proceeding to seek comment on whether to attribute same-market television joint sales agreements. We cannot predict whether the FCC will decide to attribute television joint sales agreements. See “Business —FCC Regulation of Television Broadcasting’’ and ‘‘Business—Attribution” under Item 1. If the FCC, on its own initiative or in response to a third party complaint, were to challenge such arrangements and determine that such arrangements constitute attributable interests in violation of, or otherwise violate, the FCC’s rules or policies, we may be unable to implement this business strategy or be required to revise or terminate existing arrangements, and we could be subject to sanctions, fines and/or other penalties. Any such change in FCC policies concerning arrangements involving joint sales agreements, local services agreements, guarantees or similar agreements could limit our ability to establish or maintain arrangements with other in-market television stations and implement our acquisition strategy. Current FCC ownership rules or revised FCC ownership rules, whether revised through FCC action, judicial review or federal legislation, may limit our acquisition strategy. FCC ownership rules currently impose significant limitations on the ability of broadcast licensees to have attributable interests in multiple media properties. One of these local market ownership restrictions, known as the television duopoly rule, provides that a single entity may hold an attributable interest in two television stations in the same DMA provided that (1) there are at least eight independently owned and operating full-power television stations in the market following the combination and (2) one of the stations is not ranked among the top four stations in the market at the time of the combination. The FCC’s current rules also permit a waiver of the duopoly rule but only if one of the two television stations is a failed or failing station, if the proposed transaction would result in the construction of an unbuilt television station or if compelling public interest factors are present, provided that a waiver applicant demonstrates that no reasonable out-of-market buyer was available. Under the existing television duopoly rule, absent a waiver, we would not be able to acquire a second station in our existing Big-Three affiliated stations’ markets because our stations and the most likely target stations would be amongst the top-four rated stations in the market. Our ability to obtain a waiver of the existing duopoly rule also is severely restricted because neither our stations nor our most likely target stations would qualify as failed, failing or unbuilt stations. As a result, we would have to demonstrate the presence of compelling public interest factors in order to obtain a waiver. We are unable to predict whether the FCC would grant such a waiver. If we were to acquire a second station in a market pursuant to a waiver of the duopoly rule, we could not sell the duopoly to a third party unless that third party also: (i) obtained a waiver at the time of the proposed sale; or (ii) acquired one of the stations directly and established an operating arrangement —through a local services agreement or otherwise—with another party who then would acquire the second station. On June 2, 2003, the FCC voted to substantially amend many of its ownership rules. The television duopoly rule was relaxed to permit ownership of up to three stations in certain large markets and two stations in many mid-sized markets, provided that no more than one of the co-owned stations can be among the top four rated stations in the market. In the markets in which we operate our Big-Three affiliated stations, absent a waiver, we would not be able to take advantage of this new duopoly rule because our station and the most likely target stations would be amongst the top-four rated stations in the market. The FCC further declared that it would grant waivers of the top-four restriction under certain circumstances, such as in markets where it can be established that ownership consolidation in small to mid-sized television markets with 11 or fewer television stations could lead to significant public interest benefits. We are unable to predict whether the FCC would grant us a waiver pursuant to this standard. The FCC further determined that a non-conforming combination permitted by a waiver of the duopoly rule could not be transferred jointly either as a separate asset or through the transfer of control of the licensee, except by obtaining a waiver of the rule upon each transfer or by sale to certain eligible small business entities. Therefore, as is currently the case under the present duopoly rule, if we were to acquire a second station in a market pursuant to a waiver, our ability to sell or transfer that duopoly would be restricted because any potential acquirer would need to obtain a waiver from the FCC in order to own the duopoly or establish its eligibility as a small business entity or would need to acquire one of the stations directly and establish an operating arrangement with another party who then would acquire the second station. The FCC’s modified media ownership rules have not gone into effect because on September 3, 2003, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit stayed the effectiveness of the new rules. On June 24, 2004, the Third Circuit issued a decision finding virtually all of the media ownership rules without support and remanding the proceeding back to the FCC for further consideration. The stay of the modified media ownership rules remains in effect pending the FCC’s review on remand, except with respect to certain limited aspects of the FCC’s media ownership order, including the FCC’s revised definition of local radio market. The modified media ownership rules also are subject to pending petitions for reconsideration filed with the FCC. We are unable to predict the eventual outcome of the reconsideration petitions or the outcome of the FCC’s review on remand. We are unable to predict the potential effect any changes would have on our acquisition strategy. 22 The Indenture, which governs our Notes, contains various covenants that limit our management’s discretion in the operation of our business. Our Indenture, which governs our Notes, contains various covenants that restrict our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to, among other things: • incur additional debt and issue preferred stock; • make certain distributions, investments and other restricted payments; • create certain liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • enter into agreements that restrict our restricted subsidiaries from making payments to us; • merge, consolidate or sell substantially all of our assets; • limit the ability of our subsidiaries to issue preferred stock; • sell or acquire assets; and • enter into new lines of business. As a result of these restrictions and covenants, our management’s ability to operate our business at its discretion is limited, and we may be unable to compete effectively, pursue acquisitions or take advantage of new business opportunities, any of which could harm our business. Malara Broadcast Group’s Senior Credit Facility contains similar terms and restrictions. If we fail to comply with the restrictions in the Indenture, a default may occur. A default would allow the trustee under the Indenture or the holders of the Notes to accelerate the related debt. A default followed by an acceleration of the Notes would also allow the trustee under the Indenture to foreclose on collateral securing such debt. Under the Indenture, the Malara Broadcast Group companies to which the Company provides services pursuant to the local services agreements are subject to the terms of the Indenture applicable to Restricted Subsidiaries that are not Guarantors, as such terms are defined in the Indenture. Failure of the Malara Broadcast Group companies to which the Company provides services to comply with the terms of the Indenture applicable to Restricted Subsidiaries that are not Guarantors would result in a default under the Indenture, which in turn would create a default under Malara Broadcast Group’s Senior Credit Facility. Each of Malara Broadcast Group and Four Seasons Broadcast Company may make decisions regarding the operation of its station that could reduce the amount of cash we might receive under our local services agreements with each of Malara Broadcast Group and Four Seasons Broadcast Company. Each of Malara Broadcast Group and Four Seasons Broadcast Company are 100% owned by an independent third party. Malara Broadcast Group owns and operates WPTA and KDLH, and Four Seasons Broadcast Company owns and operates WAOE. As of March 8, 2005, we entered into various local service agreements with Malara Broadcast Group pursuant to which we provide services to Malara Broadcast Group’s stations. In return for the services we provide, we receive substantially all of the available cash, after payment of debt service costs and other expenses, generated by Malara Broadcast Group’s stations. The Company also guarantees all of the obligations incurred under Malara Broadcast Group’s Senior Credit Facility with respect to the term loan B and revolving loan, which were incurred primarily in connection with Malara Broadcast Group’s acquisition of its stations. As of September 1, 2005, we entered into various local service agreements with Four Seasons Broadcast Company pursuant to which we provide services to Four Seasons Broadcast Company’s station. The Company receives a fixed payment for services provided to Four Seasons Broadcast Company plus a commission from advertising revenues generated by the station. We do not own Malara Broadcast Group or Malara Broadcast Group’s television stations or Four Seasons Broadcast Company or Four Seasons Broadcast Company’s station. However, we are deemed to be the primary beneficial interest holders in Malara Broadcast Group under U.S. GAAP and therefore consolidate their results as part of our consolidated results. In order for our arrangements with such companies to comply with FCC regulations, each of such companies must maintain complete control over its own stations, including ultimate control over all operations of the stations, such as programming, finances, and personnel. As a result, each such company’s equity holder and officers can make decisions with which we disagree and which could reduce the cash flow generated by these stations and, as a consequence, the amounts we receive under our local service agreements with each of Malara Broadcast Group and Four Seasons Broadcast Company. For instance, we may disagree with the programming decisions of Malara Broadcast Group or Four Seasons Broadcast Company, which programming may prove unpopular and/or may generate less advertising revenue. A default by Malara Broadcast Group under its Senior Credit Facility (i) gives the lenders thereunder holding the Tranche B Term Loan or the Revolving Loan the right to enforce the Granite Guaranty, and (ii) triggers a default on the Indenture if the lenders thereunder accelerate the related debt. 23 Upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an event of default under Malara Broadcast Group’s Senior Credit Facility, the lenders thereunder holding the Tranche B Term Loan or the Revolving Loan could enforce the Granite Guaranty relating to such loans notwithstanding the existence of any dispute between Malara Broadcast Group and any such lender with respect to the existence of such event. The obligations of Granite Broadcasting Corporation under the Granite Guaranty are independent of the obligations of Malara Broadcast Group under its Senior Credit Facility and the obligations of any other guarantor of obligations of Malara Broadcast Group and a separate action or actions may be brought and prosecuted against Granite Broadcasting Corporation whether or not any action is brought against Malara Broadcast Group or any of such other guarantors and whether or not Malara Broadcast Group is joined in any such action or actions. A default under Malara Broadcast Group’s Senior Credit Facility would also trigger a default under the Indenture if the lenders under Malara Broadcast Group’s Senior Credit Facility accelerate the debt. If there is a default under the Indenture, the trustee under the Indenture or the holders of the Notes can accelerate the debt under the Indenture. A default by Malara Broadcast Group under its Senior Credit Facility prevents payments to the Company under the local services agreements and would permit the lenders under the Senior Credit Facility to foreclose and sell the stations owned by Malara Broadcast Group, which causes the automatic termination of the local services agreements. Upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an event of default under Malara Broadcast Group’s Senior Credit Facility, the payments to the Company under the local services agreements would cease, but the Company would continue to be obligated to provide the services set forth in the local services agreements while such agreements are in effect. Should the lenders under the Senior Credit Facility foreclose and sell the stations owned by Malara Broadcast Group in connection with an event of default, the local services agreements would automatically terminate, and the Company would no longer receive any cash from these stations. If Malara Broadcast Group were to enter bankruptcy, a bankruptcy court could reject the local services agreements between the Company and Malara Broadcast Group. In certain bankruptcy cases, a debtor has the right, subject to bankruptcy court approval and certain other limitations, to assume or reject executory contracts and unexpired leases. If Malara Broadcast Group were to enter bankruptcy, there can be no assurances that Malara Broadcast Group, or a trustee acting on behalf of Malara Broadcast Group, would affirm its local services agreements with us and continue to make payments in a timely manner under the local services agreements. Also, we could not cease performing under a local services agreement solely because of a bankruptcy of Malara Broadcast Group. Any other bankruptcy or financial difficulties of Malara Broadcast Group may negatively affect our operating results by decreasing our revenues. Our operating results are primarily dependent on advertising revenues and, as a result, we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns than businesses in other industries. Our operating results are primarily dependent on advertising revenues. The success of our operations depends in part upon factors beyond our control, such as: • national and local economic conditions; • the availability of high profile sporting events, such as the Olympics, the Super Bowl and the NCAA Men’s Basketball Tournament; • the relative popularity of the programming on our stations; • the demographic characteristics of our markets; and • the activities of our competitors. Our programming may not attract sufficient targeted viewership and we may not achieve favorable ratings. Our ratings depend partly upon unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, such as viewer preferences, the quality of the programming provided to us by the networks, competing programming and the availability of other entertainment activities. A shift in viewer preferences could cause our programming not to gain popularity or to decline in popularity, which could cause our advertising revenues to decline. In addition, we and those that we rely on for programming may not be able to anticipate and react effectively to shifts in viewer tastes and interests in the markets. Because a high percentage of our operating expenses are fixed, a relatively small decrease in advertising revenue could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations. Our business is characterized generally by high fixed costs, primarily for debt service, programming costs, operating leases and personnel. Other than commissions paid to our sales staff and outside sales agencies, our expenses do not vary significantly with the increase or decrease in advertising revenue. As a result, a relatively small change in advertising revenue could have a disproportionate effect on our financial results. 24 We are dependent to a significant degree on automotive advertising. Approximately 20% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 consisted of automotive advertising. A significant decrease in these revenues in the future could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows, which could affect our ability to fund operations and service our debt obligations. We have a history of net losses and a substantial accumulated deficit. We have had net losses of $99,382,000 for the year ended December 31, 2005; $83,292,000 for the year ended December 31, 2004 and $46,948,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003, primarily as a result of amortization of intangible assets and debt service obligations. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated stockholders’ deficit of $430,792,000. We may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. The future utilization of a portion of our net operating losses for federal income tax purposes is subject to an annual limitation. Our strategy of seeking growth through acquisitions of television stations could pose various risks and increase our leverage. We intend to pursue selective acquisitions of television stations with the goal of improving their operating performance by applying our management’s business and growth strategy. However, we may not be successful in identifying attractive acquisition targets. Future acquisitions involve inherent risks, such as increasing leverage and debt service requirements and combining company cultures and facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, particularly during the period immediately following any acquisitions. We may not be able to successfully implement effective cost controls, increase advertising revenues or increase audience share with respect to any acquired station. In addition, our future acquisitions may result in our assumption of unexpected liabilities and may result in the diversion of management’s attention from the operation of our business. If we are unable to compete effectively, our revenue could decline. The entertainment industry, and particularly the television industry, is highly competitive and is undergoing a period of consolidation and significant change. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing, programming and broadcasting resources than we do. Technological innovation and the resulting proliferation of television entertainment, such as cable television, wireless cable, terrestrial multi-channel video distribution and data systems, satellite-to-home distribution services, pay-per-view, digital video recorders and home video and entertainment systems, have fractionalized television viewing audiences and have subjected free over-the-air television broadcast stations to new types of competition. In addition, as a result of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, the legislative ban on telephone cable ownership has been repealed and telephone companies are now permitted to seek FCC approval to provide video services to homes. If these changes result in declining advertising revenue or increased operating or programming costs, our financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Our revenue and profitability are affected by political campaigns and the Olympics. In the past, we have generated substantial advertising revenue from political campaign advertising, and to a lesser extent, from broadcasting the Olympics. Political advertising increases in even-numbered years, such as 2006, due to the increase in the number of candidates running for political office. Revenue from Olympic advertising occurs exclusively in even-numbered years, such as 2006, with the alternating Winter and Summer Games occurring every two years. In 2004, political election revenue contributed approximately 6.5% of total net revenues. The revenue generated by stations we operate or provide services to could decline substantially if they fail to maintain or renew their network affiliation agreements on favorable terms, or at all. The non-renewal or termination of a network affiliation agreement could have a material adverse effect on us. See ‘‘Business—Network affiliation’’ under Item 1. Each of the networks generally provides the affiliated stations we operate or provide services to with 22 hours of prime time programming per week in the case of the Big-Three stations and 13 hours of prime time programming per week in the case of the WB stations. On January 24, 2006, the WB Network announced that it will no longer provide programming to current WB affiliates effective in September 2006. Each of these agreements is subject to periodic renewal. In addition, some of the network affiliation agreements are subject to earlier termination by the networks under specified circumstances including as a result of a change of control of the affiliated stations we operate or provide services to, which would generally result upon the acquisition of 50% of our voting power, with respect to the stations we own, and 50% of Malara Broadcast Group’s voting power, with respect to the stations to which we provide services. W. Don Cornwell through his ownership of all of the outstanding shares of our voting common stock, possess 100% of our voting power. Some of the networks with which our stations are affiliated have required us and other broadcast groups, upon renewal of affiliation agreements, to reduce or eliminate network affiliation compensation and, in specific cases, to make cash payments to the network, and to accept other material modifications of existing affiliation agreements. Consequently the affiliation agreements may not all remain in place and each network may not continue to provide programming or compensation to affiliates on the same basis as it currently provides programming or compensation. If this occurs, we and/or Malara Broadcast Group would need to find alternative sources of programming, which may be less attractive and more expensive. We have no reason to believe that the network affiliation agreements with the Big Three Networks will not be renewed when they expire. While we are engaged in dialogue with potential buyers of our two stations affiliated with the WB Network, we must prepare to operate the stations as independents following the WB Network’s September 2006 cessation of operations, requiring that we find alternative sources of programming, which may be less attractive and more expensive. 25 On January 24, 2006, the WB Network announced that it will no longer provide programming to current WB affiliates effective in September 2006. We own two stations affiliated with the WB Network, both of which are subject to sales to affiliates of AM Media Holdings, LLC under purchase and sale agreements. Each station’s buyer advised us that as a result the WB Network’s announcement, such buyer will not be able to proceed with the transaction as contemplated. On February 14, 2006, we entered into amendments to such purchase and sale agreements, pursuant to which we have the right to market each station to other potential buyers and each party has a right to terminate the purchase and sale agreement, at any time, by providing written notice to the other party with no liability or obligation to such other party. While there may be further discussions between the Company and the buyers of the stations about the transactions, we are actively engaging in dialogue with other potential buyers because we do not presently have agreements in principle with the buyers with respect to the stations. The WB Network currently provides 13 hours of prime time programming per week to our two stations affiliated with the WB Network. Though we are engaged in dialogue with potential buyers of our two stations affiliated with the WB Network, we must prepare to operate the stations as independents following the WB Network’s September 2006 cessation of operations. We will need to find alternative sources of programming, which may be less attractive and more expensive. Our industry is subject to significant syndicated and other programming costs, and increased programming costs could adversely affect our operating results. Our industry is subject to significant syndicated and other programming costs. We may be exposed in the future to increased programming costs which may adversely affect our operating results. We often acquire program rights two or three years in advance, making it difficult for us to accurately predict how a program will perform. In some instances, we may have to replace programs before their costs have been fully amortized, resulting in write-offs that increase station operating costs. Any extraordinary, newsworthy event, including hostilities or terrorist attacks, may affect our revenues and results of operations. During 2003, we experienced a loss of advertising revenue and incurred additional broadcasting expenses due to the initiation of military action. The military action disrupted our television stations’ regularly scheduled programming and some of our clients rescheduled or delayed advertising campaigns to avoid being associated with war coverage. We expect that if the United States engages in other foreign hostilities, there is a terrorist attack against the United States or there is some other extraordinary, newsworthy event, we may lose advertising revenue and incur increased broadcasting expenses due to pre-emption, delay or cancellation of advertising campaigns and the increased costs of providing coverage of such events. We cannot predict the extent and duration of any future disruption to our programming schedule, the amount of advertising revenue that would be lost or delayed or the amount by which our broadcasting expenses would increase as a result. The loss of revenue and increased expenses could negatively affect our results of operations. We are dependent on key personnel. W. Don Cornwell, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors has an employment agreement with us. The agreement provides for a two-year employment term, which is automatically renewed for subsequent two-year terms unless advance notice of nonrenewal is given (the current term under such agreement, which was automatically renewed in September 2005, expires September 19, 2007). The agreement provides that Mr. Cornwell will not engage in any business activities during the term of such agreement outside the scope of his employment with us unless approved by a majority of our independent directors. The loss of the services of certain key operating and executive personnel currently employed by us could have an adverse impact on us. There can be no assurance that the services of such personnel will continue to be made available to us. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our employees. The industry-wide mandatory conversion to digital television requires us to make significant capital expenditures for which we might not see a return on our investment. The FCC required all commercial television stations in the United States to start broadcasting in digital format by May 1, 2002 unless the FCC granted an extension. Stations may broadcast both analog and digital signals until February 17, 2009, when they must abandon the analog format. In November 2001, the FCC released an order in which it authorized television stations to seek special temporary authorizations to construct the minimum DTV facilities required to serve their respective community of license. In its second DTV periodic review order, the FCC established July 2005 and July 2006 deadlines by which stations must maximize or replicate their analog service areas, or risk losing interference protection to their unreplicated service areas. We may not have sufficient resources to make required capital expenditures to broadcast with full power digital transmission. See ‘‘Business—FCC Regulation of Television Broadcasting’’ and ‘‘Business—Digital Television’’ under Item 1. In addition, there are efforts in Congress and the FCC to establish a firm DTV transition deadline. We cannot predict the outcome of these efforts or their impact on the Company. It is expensive to convert from the current analog format to digital format. We have completed the upgrades to our television stations to enable them to broadcast with digital technology either with full-power or reduced-power transmissions, as authorized by the FCC. See ‘‘Business—FCC Regulation of Television Broadcasting’’ and ‘‘Business—Digital Television’’ under Item 1. The transition to digital television, or DTV, eventually will require consumers to purchase new televisions that are capable of receiving and displaying DTV signals, or adapters to receive DTV signals and convert them to analog signals for display on their existing receivers. Currently, very few households have either a digital television or an adapter. Although the FCC has adopted some rules intended to facilitate consumers’ transition to digital television—e.g., those concerning ‘‘plug and play’’ compatibility and DTV tuners—it is possible that many households will never make the switch to digital television. See ‘‘Business—FCC Regulation of Television Broadcasting’’ and ‘‘Business—Digital Television’’ under Item 1. Such households would not be able to view our stations’ signals over-the-air if and when the FCC requires us to cease broadcasting analog signals. If this happens our investment in upgrading our stations to broadcast digitally will have been largely wasted with respect to such households and our audience share could be diminished. In addition, digital technology could expose us to additional competition since digital technology allows broadcasting of multiple channels within the additional allocated spectrum, compared to only one channel today using analog technology. We do not know now what effect this will have on the competitive landscape in our industry. 26 If direct broadcast satellite companies do not carry the stations that we own and operate or provide services to, we could lose revenue and audience share. The Satellite Home Viewer Improvement Act of 1999 and the Satellite Home Viewer Extension and Reauthorization Act of 2004 allow direct broadcast satellite television companies to transmit local broadcast television signals to subscribers in local markets provided that they offer to carry all local stations in that market. However, satellite providers have limited satellite capacity to deliver local station signals in local markets. As of March 2006, satellite carriers DirecTV and EchoStar both carried the signals of our stations KBWB, WDWB, WKBW, KSEE and KBJR. Satellite providers, such as DirecTV and EchoStar, may choose not to carry local stations in any of our other markets. In those markets in which the satellite providers do not carry local station signals, subscribers to those satellite services will be unable to view our stations without making further arrangements, such as installing antennas and switches. Furthermore, when direct broadcast satellite companies do carry local television stations in a market, they are permitted to charge subscribers extra for such service; some subscribers may choose not to pay extra to receive local television stations. In the event subscribers to satellite services do not receive the stations that we own and operate or provide services to, we could lose audience share, which would adversely affect our revenue and earnings. In certain limited circumstances where satellite subscribers cannot receive an adequate over-the-air signal from one of our stations or when we grant a waiver of our rights, satellite carriers may provide the signals of distant or significantly viewed stations with the same network affiliations as our stations. The availability of another station with the same network affiliation as ours in our markets could negatively affect our audience share. Such negative effects could increase if the subscribership of these satellite providers continues to grow. The FCC can sanction us for programming on our stations which it finds to be indecent. In 2005, the FCC imposed substantial fines on television broadcasters for the broadcast of indecent material in violation of the Communications Act and its rules. In 2004, the FCC also revised its indecency review analysis to more strictly prohibit the use of certain language on television stations. On March 15, 2006, the FCC released several orders in which it imposed fines on television stations for the broadcast of indecent content. In one of these orders, the FCC assessed against KDLH a monetary forfeiture in the amount of $32,500 for its broadcast of the CBS program “Without a Trace.” Because the programming broadcast by stations owned by us and Malara Broadcast Group is in large-part comprised of programming provided by the networks with which the stations are affiliated, we and Malara Broadcast Group do not have full control over what is broadcast on our stations, and we and Malara Broadcast Group may be subject to the imposition of fines if the FCC finds such programming to be indecent. In addition, Congress currently is considering legislation that will substantially increase the maximum amount the FCC can fine broadcasters for the broadcast of indecent programming and may consider permitting the FCC to institute license revocation proceedings against any station which repeatedly violates the indecency regulations. There are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected, which may adversely impact our business and operating results. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our reporting obligations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 27 