Item 1A. Risk Factors as risk factors, as well as under “Item 1. Business” “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.” Such forward-looking statements relate to the Company’s ability to complete its proposed public offering and restructure its balance sheet, generate revenues and maintain profitability and cash flow, the stability and level of prices for natural gas and oil, predictions and expectations as to the fluctuations in the levels of natural gas and oil prices, pricing in the natural gas and oil services industry and the willingness of customers to commit for natural gas and oil well services, the Company’s ability to raise additional debt or equity capital to meet its requirements and the Company’s intended growth initiatives and to obtain additional financing to fund that growth when required, the Company’s ability to maintain compliance with the covenants of its various loan documents and other agreements pursuant to which its securities, including debt instruments, have been issued and obtain waivers of violations that occur and consents to amendments as required, the Company’s ability to compete in the premium natural gas and oil services market, the Company’s ability to re-deploy its equipment among regional operations as required, and the Company’s ability to provide services using state of the art tooling and its ability to successfully integrate and operate the Bobcat operations. Important factors that may affect the Company’s ability to meet these objectives or requirements include: • adverse developments in general economic conditions; • changes in capital markets; • adverse developments in the natural gas and oil industry; • developments in international relations; • the commencement or expansion of hostilities by the United States or other governments; • events of terrorism; and • declines and fluctuations in the prices for natural gas and oil; Material declines in the prices for natural gas and oil can be expected to adversely affect the Company’s revenues. The Company cautions readers that various risk factors described in this Annual Report could cause the Company’s operating results and financial condition to differ materially from those 20 Back to Contents expressed in any forward-looking statements it makes and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and the Company’s ability to pursue its business strategy and plans, including its ability to complete its proposed public offering. Risk factors that could affect the Company’s revenues, profitability and future business operations, among others, are set forth under Item 1A – Risk Factors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company is not an accelerated filer, as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act, or a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and is not required to respond to this Item. The Company did not receive within 180 days before December 31, 2005 any written comments from the Commission staff regarding its periodic or current reports which comments remain unresolved. 