Item 1A. Risk Factors - --------------------- Investing in our securities may involve certain risks, including the risks described below. You should carefully consider these risk factors together with all other available information and data before you decide to invest in our securities. We realize income primarily from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings, and changes in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability and assets. Changes in prevailing interest rates may hurt our business. We derive our income mainly from the difference or "spread" between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. In general, the larger the spread, the more we earn. When market rates of interest change, the interest we receive on our assets and the interest we pay on our liabilities will fluctuate. This can cause decreases in our spread and can adversely affect our income. Interest rates affect how much money we can lend. For example, when interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases and loan originations tend to decrease. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and investment securities. A reduction in interest rates generally results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing cost. This causes reinvestment risk, because we generally are not able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Changes in market interest rates could also reduce the value of our financial assets. If we are unsuccessful in managing the effects of changes in interest rates, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. If we experience loan losses in excess of our allowance, our earnings will be adversely affected. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectibility of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for specific loans when their ultimate collectibility is considered questionable. If management's assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require us to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, our earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2005, our allowance for loan losses was approximately $5.1 million which represented 1.13% of outstanding loans. At such date, we had nine non-accrual loans totaling $1.8 million. We actively manage our nonperforming loans in an effort to minimize credit losses. Although management believes that its allowance for loan losses is adequate, there can be no assurance that the allowance will prove sufficient to cover future loan losses. Further, although management uses the best information available to make determinations with respect to the allowance for loan losses, future adjustments may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used or adverse developments arise with respect to our non-performing or performing loans. Material additions 19 to our allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease in our net income and capital, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A portion of our total loan portfolio consists of multi-family and commercial real estate loans and commercial loans. The repayment risk related to these types of loans is considered to be greater than the risk related to one- to- four family residential loans. At December 31, 2005, our loan portfolio included approximately $150.3 million of multi-family and commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans, or 33.56% of our total loan portfolio. Unlike one- to- four family residential mortgage loans, which generally are made on the basis of the borrower's ability to make repayment from his or her employment and other income and which are secured by real property whose value tends to be more easily ascertainable, the repayment of multi-family and commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans typically is dependent on the successful operations and income stream of the borrower and the real estate securing the loan as collateral, which can be significantly affected by economic conditions. In addition, these loans generally carry larger balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers than one- to- four family loans. Any late payments or the failure to repay such loans would adversely affect our earnings. Our business is geographically concentrated and is subject to regional economic factors that could have an adverse impact on our business. Substantially all of our business is with customers in Burlington, Camden and Mercer Counties, New Jersey. Most of our customers are consumers and small and medium-sized businesses which are dependent upon the regional economy. Adverse changes in economic and business conditions in our markets could adversely affect our borrowers, their ability to repay their loans and to borrow additional funds, and consequently our financial condition and performance. In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, we often secure our loans with real estate collateral, most of which is located in Burlington, Camden and Mercer Counties, New Jersey. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 94.4% of our loans had real estate as a primary, secondary or tertiary component of collateral. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by, among other things, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies, and acts of nature. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower. If real estate prices in our markets decline, the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans could be reduced. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. A decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of such real estate. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. Rising interest rates would likely hurt our profits and may affect our ability to pay dividends or undertake other corporate transactions. Although we have paid cash dividends on a quarterly basis since 1995, there is no assurance that we will continue to pay cash dividends. To be profitable, we must earn more in interest and fees than we 20 pay in interest and expenses. If interest rates rise, the interest we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings, may increase more quickly than interest earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities. This will reduce our net interest income and thereby reduce our net income in the short-term. In addition, rising interest rates are likely to reduce our income via a reduction in the demand for loans and the value of our investment securities and make it more difficult for our borrowers to repay their loans. As a result, this could restrict the capital resources of the Bank and could require us to contribute additional capital to the Bank or may prevent the Bank from paying dividends to us. This could restrict our ability to pay dividends or undertake other corporate transactions. Future payment of cash dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and such other factors as the Board may deem relevant and will be subject to applicable federal and state laws that impose restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. As a public company, we are subject to numerous reporting requirements that are currently evolving and could substantially increase our operating expenses and divert management's attention from the operation of our business. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. In response to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the SEC has promulgated new rules covering a variety of subjects. Compliance with these new rules has significantly increased our legal and financial and accounting costs, and we expect these increased costs to continue. In addition, compliance with the requirements has taken a significant amount of management's and the Board of Directors' time and resources. Likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly independent directors, or qualified executive officers. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company's internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting. In addition, in the future, the public accounting firm auditing the Company's financial statements may be required to attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. The costs associated with the implementation of this requirement, including documentation and testing, have not been estimated by us. If we are ever unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting or, if our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for any future year-ends as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, our chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. As a federally chartered holding company, FMS Financial Corporation is subject to regulation and oversight by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding companies may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of 21 an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution's allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, including changes in the regulations governing mutual holding companies, could have a material impact on the Corporation and the Bank, and their operations. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry in New Jersey is intense, competing for deposits and loans with commercial banks, savings associations and other financial entities. Competition for deposits comes primarily from other commercial banks, savings associations, credit unions, money market and mutual funds and other investment alternatives. Competition for loans comes primarily from other commercial banks, savings associations, mortgage banking firms, credit unions and other financial intermediaries. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. There are large competitors operating throughout our total market area, including Bank of America, Commerce Bank, Wachovia Bank, and PNC Bank, and we also face strong competition from other community institutions in certain counties. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. We may issue additional shares of common stock, which may dilute the ownership and voting power of our shareholders and the book value of our common stock. We are currently authorized to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of common stock of which 6,515,110 shares are currently outstanding. Our Board of Directors has authority, without action or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of the authorized but unissued shares. In addition, a total of 772,200 shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance under our stock option plans. A total of 232,760 shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance under options outstanding on December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2005, options to purchase a total of 36,500 shares were exercisable and had an exercise price of $10.00. Any such issuance will dilute the percentage ownership interest of shareholders and may further dilute the book value of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments - ---------------------------------- Not applicable. 