Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the risks previously mentioned, the following important risk factors could adversely impact our business. These risk factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking and other statements that we make in periodic reports and other filings with the SEC, and that we make from time to time in our news releases, annual reports and other written communications, as well as other statements made from time to time by our representatives. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Factors may affect our future results (Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995). This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that relate to future events or our future financial performance. In addition, other statements we may make from time to time, such as press releases, oral statements made by our officials and other reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission may also contain such forward-looking statements. Undue reliance should not be placed on these statements which involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performances or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as "may," "will," "should," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "continue," or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: •statements about our strategies, plans, objectives, goals, expectations and intentions; •information relating to anticipated operating results, financial resources, changes in revenues, changes in profitability, interest expense, growth and expansion, anticipated income to be realized from our investments in unconsolidated entities; •the impact of demographic trends and supply constraints on the demand for and supply of housing; •housing market conditions in the geographic markets in which we operate; •the number and types of homes and number of acres of land that we may develop and sell; •the ability to deliver homes from backlog; •the timing and outcomes of regulatory approval processes or administrative proceedings, which may result in delays in the land entitlement, development, construction, or the opening of new communities (including, but not limited to ongoing administrative proceedings related to our joint venture near Oxnard, California); •the ability to secure materials and subcontractors; 16 •the ability to produce the liquidity and capital necessary to expand and take advantage of opportunities in the future; •our ability to realize the value of our net operating loss carry forwards; •our ability to continue relationships with current or future partners; •the effectiveness and adequacy of our disclosure and internal controls; •the impact of recent accounting pronouncements; and •stock market valuations. Any or all of the forward-looking statements included in this report and in any other reports or public statements made by us may turn out to be inaccurate. This can occur as a result of incorrect assumptions or as a consequence of known or unknown risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include the competitive environment in which we operate; local, regional and national economic conditions; the demand for homes; fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing; changes in home prices; the availability and cost of land for future growth; the availability of capital; uncertainties and fluctuations in capital and securities markets; changes in tax laws and their interpretation; legal proceedings; the ability of customers to finance the purchase of homes or sell existing homes; the availability and cost of labor and materials; the amount of our debt and the impact of restrictive covenants in our loan agreements; adverse weather conditions; domestic and international political events; uncertainties created by terrorist attacks; the effects of governmental regulation, including regulations concerning development of land, the home building industry, sales and customer financing processes, and the environment; and other risks discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Many factors mentioned in this report or in other reports or public statements made by us, such as government regulation and the competitive environment, will be important in determining our future performance. Consequently, actual results may differ materially from those that might be anticipated from our forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on any of these forward-looking statements because they are based on current expectations or beliefs regarding future events or circumstances, which involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performances or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Although we believe that our strategies, plans, objectives, goals, expectations and intentions reflected in, or suggested by these forward-looking statements are reasonable given current information available to us, we can give no assurance that any of them will be achieved. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, any further disclosures made on related subjects in our subsequent reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K should be consulted. These forward-looking statements should be considered in light of the information included in this report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, without limitation, the "Risk Factors" set forth below, as well as the description of trends and other factors in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," set forth in this Form 10-K. You should also read the following "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this report. The following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possible inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business includes factors we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Other factors beyond those listed below, including factors 17 unknown to us and factors known to us which we have not determined to be material, could also adversely affect us. This discussion is provided as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. The homebuilding industry is experiencing a significant and sustained downturn that may continue for an indefinite period of time and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In 2007, we and the U.S. homebuilding industry as a whole continued to experience a significant and sustained decrease in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale. We expect the difficult conditions we experienced in 2007 to continue through 2008. Consistent with the general downturn in housing markets across the United States, we have faced a persistent oversupply of new and resale homes available for sale in our inland markets, with some areas reaching historically high levels. Our business has also encountered significant challenges from heightened builder efforts to sell homes, increased foreclosure activity, consumer reluctance to purchase homes, tighter lending standards due to turmoil in the mortgage finance and credit markets, and reduced home affordability, particularly in areas that experienced rapid sales price increases in the years leading up to the downturn. These conditions resulted in both lower overall sales compared to prior years and downward pressure on our selling prices and margins in 2007, as competition increased the need for sales incentives. We do not expect the present business environment or these trends to improve in 2008. In addition, during 2007 we recorded $32.0 million of impairments to our real estate inventories in Southern California due to challenging market conditions. The impairment charges were calculated based on current market conditions and current assumptions made by management, which may differ materially from actual results if market conditions change. If market conditions do not improve in future periods, we may decide not to pursue development and construction in additional areas, and the value of existing land holdings may continue to decline, which could lead to further write-offs for land impairments. In addition, the prices of land and new homes, and the stock prices of companies like ours that build new homes, may decline further if the demand for new homes continues to weaken. A decline in the prices for new homes has had and would continue to have an adverse effect on our homebuilding business, in particular on our revenues and margins. A further decline in our stock price could also make financing or raising capital more difficult and expensive. We can provide no assurances that the homebuilding market will improve in the near future. In fact, we expect the weakness to continue at least through 2008 and have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. Our strategies in responding to the adverse conditions in the homebuilding industry may not be successful. We have experienced significantly reduced gross operating profit levels and have incurred significant asset impairment charges in 2007 for inland projects. These contributed to the net loss we recognized in 2007. Also, in 2007, notwithstanding our sales strategies, we continued to experience significant reductions in sales volume and an elevated rate of sales contract cancellations. We believe that this largely reflects a decrease in homebuyer confidence, with continued price declines and increases in the level of sales incentives for both new and existing homes prompting homebuyers to forgo or delay home purchases. A more restrictive mortgage lending environment and the inability of some buyers to sell their existing homes have also led to these conditions. Many of the factors that affect new orders and cancellation rates are beyond our control. It is uncertain how long the reduced sales levels and the increased level of cancellations will continue. 18 Market conditions in mortgage industries deteriorated significantly in 2007, which adversely affected the availability of credit for home purchasers, reduced the number of potential mortgage customers. Further tightening of mortgage lending or mortgage financing requirements could adversely affect the availability of credit for purchasers of our homes and thereby reduce our sales. During 2007, the mortgage lending and mortgage finance industries experienced significant instability due to, among other things, rising defaults on subprime loans and a resulting decline in the market value of such loans. In light of these developments, lenders, investors, regulators and other third parties questioned the adequacy of lending standards and other credit requirements for several loan programs made available to borrowers in recent years. This has led to reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, tightened credit requirements, reduced liquidity, increased credit risk premiums and regulatory actions. Deterioration in credit quality among subprime and other nonconforming loans has caused most lenders to eliminate subprime mortgages and most other loan products that do not conform to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, FHA or VA standards. Fewer loan products and tighter loan qualifications make it more difficult for some categories of borrowers to finance the purchase of our homes or the purchase of existing homes from potential move-up buyers who wish to purchase one of our homes. In general, these developments have resulted in a reduction in demand for the homes we sell and have delayed any general improvement in the housing market. These reductions in demand have had, and are expected to continue to have, a materially adverse effect on our business and results of operations in 2008. We have incurred a significant amount of debt, and we may incur significant additional debt, which could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations and harm our financial health. As of December 31, 2007, our total consolidated liabilities were $266.1 million. In addition, subject to the restrictions in our $225 million credit facilities, we may incur significant additional indebtedness. There is no guarantee that this amount of additional borrowings, or any amounts, would be available to us. In addition, as these and other factors change, the amount of additional senior borrowing we could incur under these restrictions could increase or decrease significantly. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and borrowings may not be available to us under our credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt service obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. The amount of our indebtedness could also have the following important consequences: •making us more vulnerable to the ongoing downturn in our business or in general economic conditions; •requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt and reducing our ability to use our cash flow for other purposes; •limiting our flexibility to engage in certain transactions or to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and the homebuilding industry; •limiting our ability to obtain future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt obligations and other general corporate requirements; •placing us at a disadvantage compared to competitors who have less debt than we do; and •make us more vulnerable in the event of a further downturn in our business or in general economic conditions. Our credit facilities impose restrictions on our operations and activities and require us to comply with certain financial covenants, including a maximum leverage ratio, minimum ratio of EBITDA to 19 interest incurred, restrictions on debt incurrence, sales of assets and cash distributions by us. If we fail to comply with these restrictions or covenants, our debt could become due and payable prior to maturity. As a result of the sustained downturn in the homebuilding industry and the impairment charges we recorded during the third quarter of 2007, we amended our credit facilities in October 2007 to reduce the tangible net worth covenant and to defer the phase-in of the minimum ratio of EBITDA to interest incurred covenant to accommodate our anticipated operating results for 2008. In addition, our credit facilities require us to make $36.8 million in aggregate principal payments by December 31, 2008, including $25 million for the revolving loan (assuming we draw the remaining $24.0 available as of December 31, 2007) and $11.8 million for the term loan. In order to make these payments out of cash flow from operations, we are striving to deliver approximately 50 homes at Brightwater by the end of 2008. Given the continued weakness in the housing and mortgage markets, particularly with respect to pricing of jumbo loans, we have initiated discussions with our lenders regarding potential amendments to the revolving loan credit facility that would defer a portion of our currently scheduled payments to future periods. We are also evaluating alternatives for raising additional capital, if necessary. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in these endeavors, that further covenant or other amendments to our credit facilities will not be requested, or that any such requested amendments will be agreed to by our lenders. Failure to comply with the covenants and conditions imposed by the agreements governing our indebtedness could restrict future borrowing or cause our debt to become immediately due and payable. The agreements governing our credit facilities impose restrictions on our operations and activities. The most significant restrictions require maintenance of a maximum debt to equity (or leverage) ratio, a minimum interest coverage ratio, and a minimum level of tangible net worth, and limits on investments, cash dividends, stock repurchases and other restricted payments, incurrence of indebtedness, and creation of liens and asset dispositions. We are also required to receive an unqualified report from our independent registered accounting firm in connection with its annual audit of our financial statements. If we fail to comply with these restrictions or covenants, the banks could cause our debt to become due and payable prior to maturity or could demand that we compensate them for waiving instances of noncompliance. Moreover, we may curtail our investment activities and other uses of cash to maintain compliance with these restrictions and covenants. Our leverage may place burdens on our ability to comply with the terms of our indebtedness, may restrict our ability to operate and may prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. Our ability to meet our debt service and other obligations will depend upon our future performance. Our business is substantially affected by changes in economic cycles. Our revenues, earnings and cash flows vary with the level of general economic activity and competition in the markets in which we operate. Our business could also be affected by financial, political and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Changes in prevailing interest rates may also affect our ability to meet our debt service obligations because borrowings under our credit facilities bear interest at floating rates. A higher interest rate on our debt could adversely affect our operating results. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and borrowings may not be available to us under our credit facilities in an amount sufficient to pay our debt service obligations, or to fund our other liquidity needs. Should this occur, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. Our homebuilding operations lack geographic diversification. Our current homebuilding operations are limited to the following four Southern California counties: Los Angeles, Orange, Riverside and San Bernardino. Therefore, economic and other events 20 that adversely impact this comparatively narrow geographic region will have a direct negative impact on our business and operations. Because we do not have more diversified geographic operations, the following risk factors should be considered with extreme care given the potential material adverse effect on our limited operations that could occur if any of these risks become a reality. Our business is cyclical and downward changes in economic conditions generally or in the market regions where we operate could further decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas. The residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as those which are listed below. Adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the market regions where we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings. Our business is substantially affected by changes in national and general economic factors outside of our control, such as: •short and long term interest rates; •the availability of financing for homebuyers; •consumer confidence (which can be substantially affected by external conditions, including international hostilities involving the United States); •consumer income; •federal mortgage financing programs; and •federal and state income tax provisions, including provisions for the deduction of mortgage interest payments. The cyclicality of our business is also highly sensitive to changes in economic conditions that can occur on a local or regional basis, such as changes in: •housing demand; •population growth; •employment levels and job growth; and •property taxes. The factors described above can cause demand and prices for our homes to diminish or cause us to take longer and incur more costs to build our homes. We may not be able to recover these increased costs by raising prices because prices have been declining over the last 24 months and the price of each home is usually set several months before the home is delivered, as our customers typically sign their home purchase contracts before construction has even begun on their homes. In addition, some of the factors described above could cause some homebuyers to renegotiate for lower prices or cancel their home purchase contracts altogether. Inflation may result in increased costs that we may not be able to recoup if demand declines. Inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials and labor may require us to increase the sales price of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. However, inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which can have a negative impact on housing demand, in which case we may not be able to raise home prices sufficiently to keep up with the rate of inflation and our margins could decrease. 21 Severe weather conditions and natural disasters could delay deliveries, increase costs and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. Weather conditions and natural disasters such as earthquakes, landslides, floods, droughts, fires, extended periods of rain and other environmental conditions can harm our homebuilding business on a local or regional basis. Civil unrest can also have an adverse effect on our homebuilding business. When mortgage-financing costs are high, or as credit quality declines, customers may be unwilling or unable to purchase our homes. The majority of our homebuyers finance their purchases through our joint venture with Wells Fargo or third-party lenders. In general, housing demand is adversely affected by increases in interest rates and by decreases in the availability of mortgage financing as a result of declining customer credit quality, tightening of mortgage loan underwriting standards, or other issues. Our operating results may be adversely affected if mortgage interest rates increase or mortgage loans become more difficult to obtain, or the ability or willingness of prospective buyers to finance home purchases is adversely affected. The interest rates on jumbo mortgages have exceeded interest rates on conforming loans by as much as 100 basis points since August 2007, compared with a "normal" historical spread of 25 to 30 basis points. Since most of our new home communities are priced in excess of the recent conforming loan ceiling of $417,000, these higher interest rates on jumbo mortgages have significantly reduced demand for our homes. However, the recent economic stimulus bill passed by Congress and signed by President Bush in February 2008 has raised the conforming loan ceiling for the counties in Southern California where we sell our homes, including new conforming loan ceilings of $729,750 in Orange County and $500,000 in Riverside County. Some homebuyers may cancel their home purchases because the required deposits are small and generally refundable, if new home prices decline, interest rates increase or there is a downturn in the economy. Our backlog numbers reflect the number of homes for which we have entered into a sales contract with a customer but not yet delivered. Except for our Brightwater project in Huntington Beach, those sales contracts typically require only a small deposit and the deposit is generally refundable if customers are unable to close on the sale of their existing home, fail to qualify for financing or under certain other circumstances. If the prices for new homes continue to decline, interest rates increase or there is a further downturn in local or regional economies or the national economy, homebuyers may have financial incentive to terminate their existing sales contracts in order to negotiate for a lower price or to explore other options. Such a result could have an adverse effect on our homebuilding business, financial condition, and our results of operations. Competition for homebuyers, labor and materials could reduce our deliveries or decrease our profitability. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive for skilled labor, materials and suitable land, as well as homebuyers. We compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders many of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. In addition, smaller regional and local builders can have an advantage in local markets because of long-standing relationships they may have with local labor or land sellers. This competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver, or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. We also compete with resales of existing used or foreclosed homes, housing speculators and available rental housing. Increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental market in the regions where we operate could decrease demand for new homes and increase cancellations of sales contracts in backlog. 22 Slow or no growth initiatives have been or may be adopted in regions where we operate, which could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build in these areas. Some municipalities where we operate have approved, and others where we operate may approve, various slow growth or no growth homebuilding initiatives and other ballot measures that could negatively impact the availability of land and building opportunities within those localities. Approval of slow growth, no growth or similar initiatives (including the effect of these initiatives on existing entitlements and zoning) could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build and sell homes in the affected markets and or create additional administrative and regulatory requirements and costs, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our future revenues and earnings. We may not be able to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenues, earnings and margins. The availability of finished and partially developed lots and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, and zoning, allowable housing density and other regulatory requirements. Our long-term ability to build homes depends upon our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. As competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring suitable remaining land could rise, and the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. Any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs. We may not be able to pass through to our customers any increased land costs, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings and margins. We are subject to substantial legal and regulatory requirements regarding the development of land, the homebuilding process and protection of the environment, and compliance with federal, state and local regulations related to our business could have substantial costs both in time and money, and some regulations could prohibit or restrict some homebuilding projects. Our homebuilding business is heavily regulated and subject to increasing local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, resource protection, other environmental impacts, building design, construction and similar matters. These regulations often provide broad discretion to governmental authorities that regulate these matters, which can result in unanticipated delays or increases in the cost of a specified project or a number of projects in particular markets. We may also experience periodic delays in homebuilding projects due to building moratoria in any of the areas in which we operate. Our business is conducted in California, which is one of the most highly regulated and litigious states in the country. Therefore, our potential exposure to losses and expenses due to new laws, regulations or litigation may be greater than other homebuilders with a less significant California presence. We are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development and homebuilding process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. In addition, we are subject to laws and regulations related to workers' health and safety. We generally are required to obtain permits, entitlements and approvals from local authorities to commence and complete residential development or home construction. Such permits, entitlements and approvals may, from time-to-time, be opposed or challenged by local governments, neighboring property owners or other interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. Our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and our obligation to ensure that our 23 employees, subcontractors and other agents comply with these laws and regulations, could result in delays in construction and land development, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. We are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the environment. These laws and regulations may cause delays in construction and delivery of new homes, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in certain environmentally sensitive regions or areas. In addition, environmental laws may impose liability for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances whether or not the developer or owner of the property knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of those substances. The presence of those substances on our properties may prevent us from selling our homes and we may also be liable, under applicable laws and regulations or lawsuits brought by private parties, for hazardous or toxic substances on properties and lots that we have sold in the past. Changing market conditions may adversely impact our ability to sell homes at expected prices, which could reduce our margins. There is often a significant amount of time between when we initially acquire land and when we begin to sell homes on that land. The market value of a proposed home can vary significantly during this time due to changing market conditions. In the past, we have benefited from increases in the value of homes over time, but as market conditions reverse, we have had to sell homes at lower prices than we anticipated. We have had to record write-downs of our home inventories and land holdings, and may need to record additional write-downs if market values continue to decline. Home prices and sales activity in the particular markets and regions in which we do business impact our results of operations because our business is concentrated in these markets. Home prices and sales activity in our key markets have declined from time to time for market-specific reasons, including economic contraction due to, among other things, the failure or decline of key industries and employers. If home prices or sales activity continue to decline in one or more of the key markets in which we operate, our costs may not decline at all or at the same rate and, as a result, our overall results of operations may be adversely impacted. Product liability litigation and warranty claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly, which could adversely affect our business. As a homebuilder, we are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common in the homebuilding industry and can be costly. In addition, the costs of insuring against construction defect and product liability claims are high, and the amount of coverage offered by insurance companies is currently limited. There can be no assurance that this coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. If we are not able to obtain adequate insurance against these claims, we may experience losses that could impact our financial results. We could be hurt by the loss of key management personnel. Our future success depends, to a significant degree, on the efforts of our senior management. Our operations could be adversely affected if key members of senior management cease to be active in our company. 24 An earthquake or other natural disaster, terrorist act or nuclear accident could adversely affect our business. Our Brightwater project, which recently commenced sales and represents 77% of our real estate assets as of December 31, 2007, is located in a high risk geographical area for earthquakes. In addition, all of our other real estate assets are in southern California and could be directly or indirectly impacted by the event of an earthquake. Our real estate assets are also located in areas that are subject to the risks of wildfires, floods and other natural disasters; and they are also in proximity to urban and coastal areas which have, in recent years, been high risk geographical areas for terrorism and threats of terrorism. Finally, our real estate assets are located within 40 miles of the San Onofre nuclear power facility. Future earthquakes or other natural disasters, acts of terrorism or nuclear accidents could result in the destruction or loss of our real estate assets or adversely impact the demand for our homes and could, thereafter, materially impact the availability or cost of any insurance we might obtain to protect against these events. Any earthquake or other natural disaster, terrorist attack, or nuclear accident, whether or not insured, could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, the market value of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. Quarterly results may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future quarterly performance. Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate; therefore, you should not rely on past quarterly results to be indicative of our performance in future quarters. Factors that could cause quarterly operating results to fluctuate include, among others, the risk factors in this Annual Report and those set forth in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed during the year ended December 31, 2007. If any taxing authorities are successful in asserting tax positions that are contrary to our positions, our income tax provision and other tax reserves may be insufficient. In order to determine our provision for income taxes and for our reserves for federal, state, local and other taxes we must use significant judgment and there may be matters for which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Therefore, no assurance can be given that the final tax authority review will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision and other tax reserves. Any adverse differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision or benefits, or other tax reserves, in the period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our net income for such period. To provide for potential tax exposures, we maintain reserves for tax contingencies based on reasonable estimates of our potential exposure with respect to the tax liabilities that may result from such audits. However, if the reserves are insufficient upon completion of any audit process, there could be an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. Changes in accounting principles, interpretations and practices may affect our reported revenues, earnings and results of operations. Generally accepted accounting principles and accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, interpretations and practices for certain aspects of our business are complex and may involve subjective judgments, such as cost of sales, inventory valuations and income taxes. Changes in these areas could significantly affect our reported costs, earnings and operating results. Future terrorist attacks against the United States or increased domestic or international instability could have an adverse effect on our operations. Adverse developments in the war on terrorism, future terrorist attacks against the United States, or increased domestic or international instability could adversely affect our business. 25 Insurance coverages and terms and conditions. We negotiate our insurance contracts annually for property, casualty, workers compensation, general liability, health insurance, and directors and officers liability coverage. Due to conditions within these insurance markets and other factors beyond our control, future coverage limits, terms and conditions and the amount of the related premiums could have a negative impact on our operating results. While we continually measure the risk/reward of policy limits and coverage, the lack of coverage in certain circumstances could result in potential uninsured losses. Our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our common stock. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at the end of each fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not internal control over financial reporting is effective. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and otherwise comply with the requirements of Section 404 could have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our common stock. Such noncompliance could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, perceptions of our business among customers, suppliers, rating agencies, lenders, investors, securities analysts, and others could be adversely affected. 26 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 