Item 1A. Risk Factors – continued. In addition to the above, the FDIC gave notice to many of Capitol's banking subsidiaries in December 2009 that, to mitigate the effects of any possible assessment arising from potential cross-guaranty liability, they should be encouraged to arrange a sale, merger or recapitalization such that Capitol no longer controls the bank. The FDIC's encouragement is consistent with Capitol's previously-announced plans to selectively divest of some of its bank subsidiaries in conjunction with reallocating capital resources to the remaining banks. Capitol has currently entered agreements to sell several affiliate banks, and is pursuing additional divestiture opportunities in an effort to enhance its capital position. During 2009, Capitol announced plans to pursue divestiture of some of its bank subsidiaries (or those which are subsidiaries of Capitol's bank-development subsidiaries) on a selective basis for the purpose of reallocating capital to enhance the capital of its retained bank subsidiaries, to the extent such sales may be completed with an attractive gain upon sale. Capitol and/or its bank-development subsidiaries have entered into definitive agreements to sell its interests (or controlling interest held by bank-development subsidiaries) in the following banks in 2010: Adams Dairy Bank, Bank of Belleville, Bank of Las Colinas, Community Bank of Lincoln, Community Bank of Rowan, Mountain View Bank of Commerce, Napa Community Bank and Ohio Commerce Bank. In September 2009, Capitol completed the sale of Yuma Community Bank, previously a wholly-owned subsidiary. In November 2009, the sale of Bank of Santa Barbara, a subsidiary of one of Capitol's bank-development subsidiaries, was completed. The remaining pending bank sales are subject to regulatory approval and other contingencies and the risk that the timing of such sales are extended beyond what is currently anticipated or some could fail to obtain regulatory approval. In addition, some of the pending sales are subject to capital-raising activities to facilitate the sale and, accordingly, are subject to the risk that the requisite funds may not be successfully raised. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 