Item 1A. Risk Factors We are implementing a business strategy that may result in increased volatility of earnings. Our business strategy is focused on the expansion of commercial and entrepreneur business, commercial real estate, commercial real estate construction, and residential construction lending. These types of lending activities, while potentially more profitable, are generally more sensitive to regional and local economic conditions, making loss levels more difficult to predict. Collateral evaluation and financial statement analysis in these types of loans requires a more detailed analysis at the time of loan underwriting and on an on-going basis. A decline in real estate values, particularly in California, would reduce the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans and increase the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers defaulted on our loans. In addition, the repayment of commercial real estate loans is generally dependent, in large part, on the successful operation of the property securing the loan or the business conducted on the property securing the loan. Also, loan balances for commercial real estate, commercial business and residential construction tract loans are typically larger than those for permanent single-family and consumer loans. Accordingly, when there are defaults and losses on these types of loans, they are often larger on a per loan basis than those for permanent single-family and consumer loans. A secondary market for most types of commercial real estate and commercial business loans may not be readily liquid, so we may have less opportunity to mitigate credit risk by selling part or all of our interest in these loans. Our growth may not be managed successfully. Over the last six years, we have grown substantially from $110.8 million of total assets and $99.6 million of total deposits at December 31, 2000 to $2.3 billion of total assets and $1.8 billion of total deposits at December 31, 2006. We anticipate continued growth in our assets, the level of our deposits and the scale of our operations. We may not be able to manage this growth effectively. If we do not manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to achieve our business plan, and our business and prospects could be harmed. While non-performing loans have been minimal over the last few years, there are no assurances that this will continue into the future, especially in light of the current softening real estate market. Our growth subjects us to increased capital and operating commitments. We must recruit experienced individuals that have the required skills that we need to grow our specialty lines of business. As a result of the increase in our personnel, our expenses associated with salaries and other benefits have increased in recent periods. The additional customer products, services, branch enhancements and the implementation of these items have placed and will continue to place a strain on our personnel, systems, and resources. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain and train qualified individuals to implement our business strategy in a timely, cost effective and efficient manner. Potential acquisitions may disrupt our business, dilute shareholder value and adversely affect our operating results. In July 2006, we completed a merger with Rancho Bank. In conjunction with our strategic plan, we may continue to grow by acquiring banks, related businesses or banking centers of other banks that we believe provide a strategic fit with our business. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we cannot be certain that we will be able to adequately or profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other banks, businesses or banking centers involves risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including: 33 Table of Contents · potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of banks, businesses or banking centers we acquire; · exposure to potential asset quality issues of the acquired banks, businesses or banking centers; · difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of banks, businesses or banking centers we acquire; · potential disruption to our business; · potential diversion of management’s time and attention; · the possible loss of key employees and customers of the banks, businesses or banking centers we acquire; · difficulty in estimating the value of the banks, businesses or banking centers to be acquired; and · potential changes in banking, tax laws, and/or regulations that may affect the banks or businesses to be acquired. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available or may not be on terms acceptable to us when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that our existing capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. However, we may decide to raise additional capital to support continued growth, either internally or through acquisitions. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be certain of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. Our business strategy relies upon our Chief Executive Officer and other key employees. Norman Morales has been our president and chief executive officer since October 2000. Mr. Morales is the chief architect of our strategic plan and has developed numerous aspects of our operating strategy and the implementation of such strategy depends heavily upon the active involvement of Mr. Morales. The loss of Mr. Morales’ services could have a negative impact on the implementation and success of our business strategy. Mr. Morales is also a principal strategic recruiter for key management, on both the business generation and corporate support levels. Our success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, technical and marketing personnel to execute the strategic plan. We will need to retain persons with diversified skills in order to manage our specialty lines of business. Competition for qualified personnel, especially those in management, sales and marketing, is intense. We cannot be certain that we will be able to attract and retain these persons. Our business is subject to various lending risks which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Residential Real Estate Construction Loans. We make residential real estate construction loans to individuals and developers for the construction of residential properties. These loans include single-family luxury construction loans which are targeted at luxury homes located within the coastal communities and in other affluent areas of California. We will originate these loans whether or not the property is under contract for sale. Residential real estate construction loans also include single-family tract construction loans which target the construction of entry level units. We have a significant amount of residential real estate construction loans in our loan portfolio, both in dollar amounts and as a percentage of our total loans. At December 31, 2006, $666.4 million or 35.0% of our total loan portfolio consisted of residential real estate construction loans (which exclude commercial real estate construction loans). 34 Table of Contents Our construction loans are based upon estimates of costs and value associated with the completed project. These estimates may be inaccurate. Construction lending involves additional risks when compared with permanent residential lending because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. Construction lending also typically involves higher loan principal amounts and is often concentrated with a small number of builders. In addition, generally during the term of a construction loan, no payment from the borrower is required since the accumulated interest is added to the principal of the loan through an interest reserve. Construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment substantially dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, there may be inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project and we may incur a loss. Our ability to continue to originate a significant amount of construction loans is dependent on the continued strength of the housing market in the California communities of Los Angeles, Marin, Orange, San Diego and Santa Clara counties and in the Inland Empire region of Southern California as well as elsewhere in California. To the extent there is a decline in the demand for new housing in these communities, it is expected that the demand for construction loans would decline, our liquidity would substantially increase and our net income would be adversely affected. Commercial Real Estate Loans. We originate commercial real estate loans for individuals and businesses for various purposes which are secured by commercial real estate, which includes loans made to non-profit organizations. At December 31, 2006, $531.2 million or 27.9% of our total loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate loans. Repayment of our commercial real estate loans may be dependent, in large part, on the successful operation of the property securing the loan or the business conducted on the property securing the loan. These loans may be more adversely affected by conditions in the real estate markets or in the economy generally. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower’s project is reduced due to leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. In addition, many of our commercial real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the balloon payment. Multifamily Residential Real Estate Loans. Our multifamily loans are subject to collateral risk similar to other real estate secured products. While our primary lending markets have experienced strong demand for affordable housing, valuations have increased significantly over the past several years and could be negatively impacted by a decrease in investor demand. At December 31, 2006, $222.5 million or 11.7% of our total loan portfolio consisted of multifamily residential real estate loans. Commercial Business Loans. Our commercial business loans generally consist of loans to small businesses, including SBA loans. At December 31, 2006, $122.3 million or 6.4% of our total loan portfolio consisted of commercial business loans. Repayment of our commercial business loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Our commercial business loans are primarily made based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Most often, this collateral consists of accounts receivable, inventory or equipment. Credit support provided by the borrower for most of these loans and the probability of repayment is based on the liquidation of the pledged collateral and enforcement of personal guarantees, if any exist. As a result, in the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. The collateral securing other loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. 35 Table of Contents Our allowance for credit losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb possible losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Like all financial institutions, every loan we make carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any collateral securing it will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: · cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; · in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; · the credit history of a particular borrower; · changes in economic and industry conditions; and · the duration of the loan. At December 31, 2006, our allowance for credit losses, which includes the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded commitments, as a percentage of gross loans was 1.11% and our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of gross loans was 1.03%. Regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for credit losses. Although we believe that our allowance for credit losses is adequate to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio and in unfunded commitments, we cannot predict these losses or whether the allowance will be adequate or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects and profitability. Our business is subject to general economic risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in economic conditions, particularly an economic slowdown in California, could hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. Deterioration in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown within California, could result in the following consequences, any of which could hurt our business materially: · loan delinquencies may increase; · problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · demand for our products and services may decline; and · collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing a client’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans. A downturn in the California real estate market could hurt our business. Our business activities and credit exposure are concentrated in California. A downturn in the California real estate market could hurt our business because most of our loans are secured by real estate located within California. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 91.3% of our loan portfolio consisted of loans secured by real estate located in California. If there is a significant decline in real estate values, especially in California, the collateral for our loans will provide less security. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate would be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Real estate values in California could also be affected by, among other things, earthquakes and other natural disasters particular to California. We may suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices. 36 Table of Contents We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. These practices include analysis of a borrower’s prior credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections, valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers and verification of liquid assets. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for credit losses. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. Like other financial institutions, our operating results are largely dependent on our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on loans and securities and interest expense incurred on deposits and borrowings. Our net interest income is impacted by changes in market rates of interest, the interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities, prepayments on our loans and securities and limits on increases in the rates of interest charged on our loans. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. We cannot control or accurately predict changes in market rates of interest. The following are some factors that may affect market interest rates, all of which are beyond our control (See Item 1, Business; Effect of Governmental Policies and Recent Legislation): · inflation; · slow or stagnant economic growth or recession; · unemployment; · money supply and the monetary policies of the FRB; · international disorders; and · instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Sharp increases in interest rates could negatively affect our market value of equity. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, securities portfolio, and overall profitability. Although we attempt to manage our interest rate risk, we cannot be certain that we can minimize our interest rate risk. Our ability to service our debt, pay dividends, and otherwise pay our obligations as they come due is substantially dependent on capital distributions from the Bank, and these distributions are subject to regulatory limits and other restrictions. A substantial source of our income from which we service our debt and pay our obligations and dividends is the receipt of dividends from the Bank. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank, and other factors, that the applicable regulatory authorities could assert that payment of dividends or other payments, including payments to us, is an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations or pay dividends on our outstanding common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We face strong competition from other financial institutions, financial service companies and other organizations offering services similar to those we offer, which could hurt our business. 37 Table of Contents We face direct competition from a significant number of financial institutions, many with a statewide or regional presence, and in some cases a national presence, in both originating loans and attracting deposits. Competition in originating loans comes primarily from other banks, mortgage companies and consumer finance institutions that make loans in our primary market areas. We also face substantial competition in attracting deposits from other banking institutions, money market and mutual funds, credit unions and other investment vehicles. In addition, banks with larger capitalization and non-bank financial institutions that are not governed by bank regulatory restrictions have large lending limits and are better able to serve the needs of larger customers. Many of these financial institutions are also significantly larger and have greater financial resources than us, have been in business for a long period of time and have established customer bases and name recognition. We compete for loans principally on the basis of interest rates and loan fees, the types of loans which we originate, and the quality of service which we provide to borrowers. Our ability to attract and retain deposits requires that we provide customers with competitive investment opportunities with respect to rate of return, liquidity, risk and other factors. To effectively compete, we may have to pay higher rates of interest to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. If we are not able to effectively compete in our market area, our profitability may be negatively affected and could limit our ability to pay dividends. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. We are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance in all material respects with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. There are currently proposed various laws, rules and regulations that, if adopted, would impact our operations. If these or any other laws, rules or regulations are adopted in the future, they could make compliance much more difficult or expensive, restrict our ability to originate or sell loans, further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans we originate or sell, or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects or profitability. Distribution of Assets, Liabilities, and Stockholders’ Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential Our earnings depend primarily upon the difference between the income we receive from our loan portfolio and investment securities and our cost of funds, principally interest paid on savings, time deposits and borrowings. Interest rates charged on our loans are affected principally by the demand for loans, the supply of money available for lending purposes, and competitive factors. In turn, these factors are influenced by general economic conditions and other constraints beyond our control, such as governmental economic and tax policies, general supply of money in the economy, governmental budgetary actions, and the actions of the FRB (See Item 1. Business; Effect of Governmental Policies and Recent Legislation.) 38 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None ITEM 