Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known by us or that we currently deem immaterial. Our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our operations and activities are now subject to heightened regulatory oversight. 35 Table of Contents The OCC has designated the Bank to be in a “troubled condition”, and we have been advised that the FRB expects to designate VNB to be in a "troubled condition" for purposes of Section 914 of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989. As a result of those designations, and in addition to the extensive regulation which normally applies to us, our operations and activities are now subject to heightened regulatory oversight, and additional restrictions on our operations and activities may become applicable depending upon whether further regulatory action is taken. We can give no assurance that further regulatory action will not be taken. Our ability to conduct our operations and meet our obligations will require, in many circumstances, that we obtain prior regulatory approval. Such approval is discretionary and we can give no assurance that such approval would be granted, or granted on the terms requested. We are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance in all material respects with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. There are currently proposed various laws, rules and regulations that, if adopted, would impact our operations. If these or any other laws, rules or regulations are adopted in the future, they could make compliance much more difficult or expensive, restrict our ability to originate or sell loans, further limit or restrict the amount of origination fees, interest or other charges earned on loans we originate or sell, or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects or profitability. Our ability to service our debt, pay dividends, and otherwise satisfy our obligations as they come due is substantially dependent on capital distributions from the Bank. A substantial source of our funds from which we service our debt and pay our obligations and dividends is the receipt of dividends from the Bank. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank, and other factors, that the applicable regulatory authorities could assert that payment of dividends or other payments, including payments to us, is an unsafe or unsound practice. As a result of any such assertion, the Bank could be prohibited or otherwise restricted from paying dividends to us. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations or pay dividends on our outstanding equity securities. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our ability to service our debt, pay dividends, and otherwise satisfy our obligations as they come due is also subject to regulatory limits and other restrictions. The banking agencies have the authority to prohibit us from servicing our debt, paying dividends and otherwise satisfying our obligations as they come due depending upon the Bank’s financial condition, if such payment is deemed to constitute an unsafe or unsound practice or based on the FRB requirement that a bank holding company must act as a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary banks. In this regard, we expect that FRB approval will now be required before we can make any payments to third parties, including, without limitation, payments to service our debt, payments of dividends to our shareholders and payments to satisfy our other obligations. See “Item 1. Business – Regulatory Actions.” If we are unable to secure FRB approval to make such payments on a timely basis, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects would be adversely affected. Our allowance for credit losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb possible losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Like all financial institutions, every loan we make carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any collateral securing it will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: · cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; · in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; · the credit history of a particular borrower; · changes in economic and industry conditions; and · the duration of the loan. 36 Table of Contents At December 31, 2007, our allowance for credit losses, which includes the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded commitments, as a percentage of gross loans was 2.48% and our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of gross loans was 2.43%. Regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for credit losses. Although we believe that our allowance for credit losses is adequate to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio and in unfunded commitments, we cannot predict with certainty these losses or whether the allowance will be adequate or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects and profitability. Our operations will likely require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available or may not be on terms acceptable to us when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We do not believe that our existing capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future nor be sufficient to offset further problem assets. Our asset quality may continue to erode and require significant additional provision, causing continued net operating losses at the Bank. Because our capital levels have and may continue to decline, we will likely need to raise capital. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Additionally, we may enter into agreements with the OCC and FRB which may include requirements to raise capital to a level sufficient to meet operating needs. Accordingly, we cannot be certain of our ability to raise additional capital or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to operate could be materially impaired. Our pursuit of strategic alternatives may lead to uncertainty or may not be successful. On May 1, 2008, we announced that we have engaged financial advisors to explore strategic alternatives, including potential significant capital raises, in order to address the financial impact of the abrupt and severe decline in real estate values and the consequent increase in our provision for loan losses. We also announced that we were in discussions with one party regarding a potential capital infusion transaction. There can be no assurance that the exploration of strategic alternatives will result in any transaction. During the process, there may be risks that certain customers, employees, and shareholders may react negatively to the uncertainty of the process. These same constituencies may react negatively in the event the process does not result in any transaction. The pursuit of strategic alternatives may also involve significant expenses and management time and attention, and otherwise disrupt our business. Recent negative developments in the financial industry and U.S. and global credit markets may impact our operations and results. Negative developments in 2007 in the sub-prime mortgage market and the securitization markets for such loans have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets generally and the expectation of a general economic downturn beginning in 2008. Commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performance has deteriorated at many institutions and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. Our business strategy may result in increased volatility of earnings. 37 Table of Contents Our business strategy is focused on commercial, commercial real estate, multifamily, commercial real estate construction, and residential real estate construction lending. These types of lending activities, while potentially more profitable, are generally more sensitive to regional and local economic conditions, making loss levels more difficult to predict. Collateral evaluation and financial statement analysis in these types of loans require a more detailed analysis at the time of loan underwriting and on an on-going basis. During 2007, real estate markets experienced a downturn as a result of nationwide sub-prime loan problems. Further declines in real estate values, particularly in California, may reduce the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans and increase the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers defaulted on their loans. In addition, the repayment of commercial real estate and multifamily loans is generally dependent, in large part, on the successful operation of the property securing the loan or the business conducted on the property securing the loan. Also, loan balances for commercial real estate, commercial business and residential construction tract loans are typically larger than those for permanent single-family residential and consumer loans. Accordingly, when there are defaults and losses on these types of loans, they are often larger on a per loan basis than those for permanent single-family residential and consumer loans. A secondary market for most types of commercial real estate and commercial business loans may not be readily liquid, so we may have less opportunity to mitigate credit risk by selling part or all of our interest in these loans. Potential acquisitions may disrupt our business, dilute shareholder value and adversely affect our operating results. In December 2007 and July 2006, we completed acquisitions of the Exchange Companies and Rancho Bank, respectively. In conjunction with our strategic plan, we may continue to grow by acquiring banks, related businesses or banking centers of other banks that we believe provide a strategic fit with our business. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we cannot be certain that we will be able to adequately or profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other banks, businesses or banking centers involves risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including: · potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired banks, businesses or banking centers we acquire; · exposure to potential asset quality issues of the acquired banks, businesses or banking centers; · difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired banks, businesses or banking centers we acquire; · potential disruption to our business; · potential diversion of management’s time and attention; · the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired banks, businesses or banking centers we acquire; · difficulty in estimating the value of the acquired banks, businesses or banking centers to be acquired; and · potential changes in banking, tax laws, and/or regulations that may affect the acquired banks or businesses to be acquired. We rely, in part, on external financing to fund our operations and the unavailability of such funds in the future could adversely affect our growth strategy and prospects. Our ability to implement our business strategy will depend on our ability to obtain funding for loan originations, working capital and other general corporate purposes. If our core banking and commercial deposits are not sufficient to meet our funding needs, we may increase our utilization of brokered deposits, Federal Home Loan Bank advances and other wholesale funding sources necessary to continue our growth strategy. Because these funds generally are more sensitive to rates than our core deposits, they are more likely to move to the highest rate available. To the extent we are not successful in obtaining such funding, we will be unable to implement our strategy as planned, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business strategy relies upon our key employees. The implementation of our operating strategy depends heavily upon the active involvement of key employees. The loss of their services could have a negative impact on the implementation and success of our business strategy. Our success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, technical and marketing personnel to execute the strategic plan. We will need to retain persons with diversified skills in order to manage our specialty lines of business. Competition for qualified personnel, especially those in management, sales and marketing, is intense. We cannot be certain that we will be able to attract and retain these persons. In addition, the OCC has designated the Bank to be in a “troubled condition,” and we have been advised that the FRB expects to designate VNB to be in a “troubled condition.” As a result of these designations, neither VNB nor the Bank will be able to appoint any new director or senior executive officer or change the responsibilities of any current senior executive officers without providing the applicable regulatory body with prior written notice. Such appointment or change in responsibilities may be disapproved by the applicable regulatory body. Moreover, neither VNB nor the Bank will be able to make indemnification or severance payments to, or enter into agreements providing for such indemnification or severance payments with, institution-affiliated parties, which include key employees and directors, without complying with certain statutory restrictions including prior regulatory approval. These restrictions may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. 38 Table of Contents Our business is subject to various lending risks which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Real Estate Construction Loans We make residential and commercial real estate construction loans to individuals and developers for the construction of residential and commercial properties. These loans include single-family luxury construction loans which are targeted at attached and detached luxury homes located within the coastal communities and in other affluent areas of California. We originate these loans whether or not the property is under contract for sale. Residential real estate construction loans also include single-family tract construction loans which target the construction of entry level units. We have a significant amount of residential real estate construction loans in our loan portfolio, both in dollar amounts and as a percentage of our total loans. At December 31, 2007, $729.6 million or 36.3% of our total loan portfolio consisted of residential real estate construction loans. Commercial construction loans include loans for office buildings and retail space, with the majority of projects originating throughout Southern California. At December 31, 2007, $198.2 million or 9.9% of our total loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate construction loans. Our construction loans are based upon estimates of costs and value associated with the completed project. These estimates may be inaccurate. Construction lending involves additional risks when compared with permanent residential lending because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. Construction lending also typically involves higher loan principal amounts and is often concentrated with a small number of builders. In addition, generally during the term of a construction loan, no payment from the borrower is required since the accumulated interest is added to the principal of the loan through an interest reserve. Construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment substantially dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, there may be inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project and we may incur a loss. Our ability to continue to originate a significant amount of construction loans is dependent on a recovery of the housing market in the California communities of Los Angeles, Marin, Orange, San Diego and Santa Clara counties and in the Inland Empire region of Southern California as well as elsewhere in California. To the extent there is continued decline in the demand for new housing in these communities, the demand for construction loans would likely continue to decline and our net income may be adversely affected. Commercial Real Estate Loans We originate commercial real estate loans to individuals and businesses, including non-profit organizations, for various purposes. These loans are secured by commercial real estate. At December 31, 2007, $553.5 million or 27.6% of our total loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate loans. Repayment of our commercial real estate loans may be dependent, in large part, on the successful operation of the property securing the loan or the business conducted on the property securing the loan. These loans may be more adversely affected by conditions in the real estate markets or in the economy generally. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower’s project is reduced due to leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. In addition, many of our commercial real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the balloon payment. Multifamily Residential Real Estate Loans Our multifamily loans are subject to collateral risk similar to other real estate secured products. While our primary lending markets have experienced strong demand for affordable housing, valuations have increased significantly over the past several years and could be negatively impacted by a decrease in investor demand. At December 31, 2007, $93.7 million or 4.7% of our total loan portfolio consisted of multifamily residential real estate loans. 39 Table of Contents Commercial Business Loans Our commercial business loans generally consist of loans to small businesses, including SBA loans. At December 31, 2007, $157.0 million or 7.8% of our total loan portfolio consisted of commercial business loans. Repayment of our commercial business loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Our commercial business loans are primarily made based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Most often, this collateral consists of accounts receivable, inventory or equipment. Credit support provided by the borrower for most of these loans and the probability of repayment is based on the liquidation of the pledged collateral and enforcement of personal guarantees, if any exist. As a result, in the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. The collateral securing other loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Our business is subject to general economic risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in economic conditions, particularly a further economic slowdown in California, could hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. In 2007, the housing sector experienced an economic slowdown. Further deterioration in economic conditions, in particular within the California real estate market, could result in the following consequences, any of which could hurt our business materially: · loan delinquencies may increase; · problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · demand for our products and services may decline; and · collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing a client’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans. Further downturns in the California real estate market could hurt our business. Our business activities and credit exposure are primarily concentrated in California. While we do not have any sub-prime loans, our residential tract and luxury construction and land loan portfolios have been affected by the downturn in the residential real estate market. We anticipate that continued declines in the California real estate market will hurt our business. As of December 31, 2007, the majority of our loan portfolio consisted of loans secured by real estate located in California. If real estate values continue to decline, especially in California, the collateral for our loans will provide less security. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Real estate values in California could also be affected by, among other things, earthquakes and other natural disasters particular to California. We may suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. These practices include analysis of a borrower’s prior credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections, valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers and verification of liquid assets. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for credit losses. 40 Table of Contents Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. Like other financial institutions, our operating results are largely dependent on our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on loans and securities and interest expense incurred on deposits and borrowings. Our net interest income is impacted by changes in market rates of interest, the interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities, prepayments on our loans and securities and limits on increases in the rates of interest charged on our loans. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. We cannot control or accurately predict changes in market rates of interest. The following are some factors that may affect market interest rates, all of which are beyond our control: · inflation; · slow or stagnant economic growth or recession; · unemployment; · money supply and the monetary policies of the FRB; · international disorders; and · instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Sharp increases in interest rates could negatively affect our market value of equity. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, securities portfolio, and overall profitability. Although we attempt to manage our interest rate risk, we cannot be certain that we can minimize our interest rate risk. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to restrictions under California. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by California law. Under California law, our shareholders may receive dividends when and as declared by our Board of Directors out of funds legally available for such purpose. With certain exceptions, a California corporation may not pay a dividend to its shareholders unless (i) its retained earnings equal at least the amount of the proposed dividend, or (ii) after giving effect to the dividend, the corporation’s assets would equal at least 1.25 times its liabilities and, for corporations with classified balance sheets, the current assets of the corporation would be at least equal to its current liabilities or, if the average of the earnings of the corporation before taxes on income and before interest expense for the two preceding fiscal years was less than the average of the interest expense of the corporation for those fiscal years, at least equal to 1.25 times its current liabilities. We currently have an accumulated deficit and do not otherwise satisfy the minimum asset to liability ratios for paying dividends under California law. As a result, we are legally prohibited from paying dividends on both our common stock and preferred stock. We face strong competition from other financial institutions, financial service companies and other organizations offering services similar to those we offer, which could hurt our business. We face direct competition from a significant number of financial institutions, many with a statewide or regional presence, and in some cases a national presence, in both originating loans and attracting deposits. Competition in originating loans comes primarily from other banks, mortgage companies and consumer finance institutions that make loans in our primary market areas. We also face substantial competition in attracting deposits from other banking institutions, money market and mutual funds, credit unions and other investment vehicles. In addition, banks with larger capitalization and non-bank financial institutions that are not governed by bank regulatory restrictions have large lending limits and are better able to serve the needs of larger customers. Many of these financial institutions are also significantly larger and have greater financial resources than us, have been in business for a long period of time and have established customer bases and name recognition. 41 Table of Contents We compete for loans principally on the basis of interest rates and loan fees, the types of loans which we originate, and the quality of service which we provide to borrowers. Our ability to attract and retain deposits requires that we provide customers with competitive investment opportunities with respect to rate of return, liquidity, risk and other factors. To effectively compete, we may have to pay higher rates of interest to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. If we are not able to effectively compete in our market area, our profitability may be negatively affected and could further limit our ability to pay dividends. The short term and long term impact of the new Basel II capital standards and the forthcoming new capital rules to be proposed for non-Basel II U.S. banks is uncertain. As a result of the recent deterioration in the global credit markets and the potential impact of increased liquidity risk and interest rate risk, it is unclear what the short term impact of the implementation Basel II may be or what impact a pending alternative standardized approach to Basel II option for non-Basel II U.S. banks may have on the cost and availability of different types of credit and the potential compliance costs of implementing the new capital standards. If we cannot attract deposits, our growth may be inhibited. Our ability to increase our asset base depends in large part on our ability to attract additional deposits at favorable rates. We seek additional deposits by offering deposit products that are competitive with those offered by other financial institutions in our markets. We cannot assure you that these efforts will be successful. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Negative publicity could damage our reputation. Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from negative publicity or public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity or public opinion could adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and expose us to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or perceived conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology from third-party service providers, and we may suffer an interruption in those systems. We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology, including our internet banking services and data processing systems. Any failure or interruption of these services or systems or breaches in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions may require us to identify alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Our business and operations have been, and could further be, negatively impacted as a result of the efforts by our former chief executive officer, Norman Morales, and a stockbroker, Jon Salmanson, to elect alternative nominees to our Board of Directors. 42 Table of Contents In February 2008, our former chief executive officer, Norman Morales, and a stockbroker, Jon Salmanson, publicly announced their intention to solicit written shareholder consents to amend our Bylaws to permit them to nominate a slate of directors for possible election at our 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. We incurred substantial costs and management expended substantial time and energy in opposing this consent solicitation. We have now received notice that Messrs. Morales and Salmanson will be submitting a slate of seven alternate nominees to stand for election at our 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. As a result, we will likely be engaged in a proxy contest with respect to the election of directors that will require significant additional time and expense and further divert the attention of our management and disrupt our business. This disruption also could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain experienced executives and employees. If we cannot maintain an effective system of internal and disclosure controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As more fully described under “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures,” we have identified five material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of these material weaknesses, our management concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. As a result of the material weaknesses we have identified in our internal control over financial reporting, we identified certain deficiencies in some of our disclosure controls and procedures that we believe require remediation. We cannot be certain that our efforts to improve our internal and disclosure controls will be successful or that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain effective controls or timely effect any necessary improvement of our internal and disclosure controls could harm operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, which could affect our ability to remain listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market and the American Stock Exchange. Ineffective internal and disclosure controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. Our failure to timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 may adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets. Our inability to timely file our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 may have an adverse impact on our ability to access the capital markets. In particular, we expect that we will not be eligible to use a registration statement on Form S-3 until we have filed all of our periodic reports in a timely manner for a period of twelve months. The inability to use Form S-3 may impair our ability or increase our costs and the complexity of our efforts to access the capital markets. Our common stock is subject to delisting from The NASDAQ Global Select Market and our 7.5% Series D Noncumulative Preferred Stock is subject to delisting from the American Stock Exchange as a result of our failure to timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market (“NASDAQ”), and our 7.5% Series D Noncumulative Preferred Stock is currently listed on the American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”). In the future, we may not be able to meet the continued listing requirements of NASDAQ and AMEX. On April 2, 2008, we received a NASDAQ Staff Determination letter notifying us that our failure to timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 constitutes a failure to satisfy the filing requirement for continued listing under NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) and, therefore, trading in our common stock is subject to suspension and delisting unless we request an appeal of the determination. We filed an appeal and a hearing before the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel (the “NASDAQ Panel”) is scheduled on May 22, 2008 to review the determination. Pending a decision by the NASDAQ Panel, our common stock will remain listed on NASDAQ. While we believe the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 satisfies the filing requirement for continued listing under NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14), there can be no assurance that the NASDAQ Panel will grant our request for continued listing. On April 2, 2008, we received a letter from AMEX notifying us that our failure to timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 constitutes a failure to satisfy the requirements of Sections 134 and 1101 of the AMEX Company Guide and is a material violation of our listing agreement and, therefore, trading in our 7.5% Series D Noncumulative Preferred Stock is subject to suspension and delisting unless we submit a plan (“Plan”) to AMEX advising AMEX of action we have taken, or will take, that would bring us into compliance with Sections 134 and 1101 of the AMEX Company Guide. Although we have submitted a Plan to AMEX, such Plan has not been accepted by the AMEX Listings Qualifications Panel as of the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. While we believe the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 satisfies the filing requirements of Sections 134 and 1101 of the AMEX Company Guide, there can be no assurance that the AMEX Listings Qualifications Panel will grant our request for continued listing. 43 Table of Contents A delisting of our common stock or our 7.5% Series D Noncumulative Preferred Stock would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade such securities and the value and liquidity of such securities. In addition, such a delisting would likely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us and would likely result in the loss of confidence by our shareholders, customers and employees. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 