Item 1A. Risk Factors - continued. Capitol has Debt Securities Outstanding Which May Prohibit Future Cash Dividends on Capitol's Common Stock or Otherwise Adversely Affect Regulatory Capital Compliance. Capitol has a credit facility with an unaffiliated bank under which borrowings of up to $25 million are permitted, subject to certain conditions. Capitol is reliant upon its bank subsidiaries' earnings and dividends to service this debt obligation which may be inadequate to service the obligations, in the event Capitol utilizes this facility. In the event of violation of the covenants relating to the credit facility, or due to failure to make timely payments of interest and debt principal, the lender may terminate the credit facility. In addition, upon such occurrences, dividends on Capitol's common stock may be prohibited or Capitol may be otherwise unable to make future dividends payments or obtain replacement credit facilities. Capitol also has several series of trust-preferred securities outstanding, with a liquidation amount totaling about $103.3 million, which are treated as capital for regulatory ratio compliance purposes. Although these securities are viewed as capital for regulatory purposes, they are debt securities which have numerous covenants and other provisions which, in the event of noncompliance, could have an adverse effect on Capitol. For example, these securities permit Capitol to defer the periodic payment of interest for various periods, however, if such payments are deferred, Capitol is prohibited from paying cash dividends on its common stock during deferral periods and until deferred interest is paid. Future payment of interest is dependent upon Capitol's bank subsidiaries' earnings and dividends which may be inadequate to service the obligations. Continued classification of these securities as elements of capital for regulatory purposes is subject to future changes in regulatory rules and regulations and the actions of regulatory agencies, all of which is beyond the control or influence of Capitol. Capitol's Controls and Procedures May Fail or be Circumvented Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Capitol's Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. Capitol regularly reviews and updates its internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on Capitol's business, results of operations and financial condition. Capitol's Bylaws as Well as Certain Banking Laws May Have an Anti-Takeover Effect. Provisions of Capitol's bylaws, the Michigan Control Share Act, and certain federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Capitol, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to shareholders. The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of Capitol's common stock. Capitol's Bank Subsidiaries Have Decentralized Management Which Could Have a Negative Impact on the Rate of Growth and Profitability of Capitol and its Bank Subsidiaries. Capitol's bank subsidiaries have independent boards of directors and management teams. This decentralized structure gives the banks control over the day-to-day management of the institution, including credit decisions, the selection of personnel, the pricing of loans and deposits, marketing decisions and the strategy in handling problem loans. This decentralized structure may impact Capitol's ability to uniformly implement corporate or enterprise-wide strategy at the bank level. It may slow Capitol's ability to react to changes in strategic direction due to outside factors such as interest rate changes and changing economic conditions. This decentralized structure may cause additional management time to be spent on internal issues and could negatively impact the growth and profitability of the banks individually and the parent company. - 27 - Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 