Item 1A. Risk Factors – continued. Capitol's bylaws and its rights plan, as well as certain banking laws, may have an antitakeover effect. Provisions of Capitol's bylaws, rights plan and certain federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Capitol, even if doing so might be perceived to be beneficial to shareholders. The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of the common stock. Capitol has currently entered into agreements to sell several banking subsidiaries, and is pursuing additional divestiture opportunities in an effort to improve the capital position of its remaining banks. During 2009, Capitol announced plans to pursue divestiture of some of its banking subsidiaries (or those which are banking subsidiaries of Capitol's bank-development subsidiaries) on a selective basis for the purpose of reallocating capital to enhance the capital position of its retained banking subsidiaries. Capitol and/or its bank-development subsidiaries have entered into definitive agreements to sell its interests (or controlling interests held by bank-development subsidiaries) in the following banking subsidiaries in 2011: 1st Commerce Bank, Bank of Feather River, Bank of Fort Bend, Bank of Las Colinas, Bank of Tucson – main office, Community Bank of Rowan, Evansville Commerce Bank and High Desert Bank. In 2010, Capitol sold its ownership in Adams Dairy Bank, Bank of Belleville, Bank of San Francisco, Community Bank of Lincoln, Fort Collins Commerce Bank, Larimer Bank of Commerce, Loveland Bank of Commerce, Napa Community Bank, Ohio Commerce Bank, Southern Arizona Community Bank and USNY Bank. The remaining pending bank sales are subject to regulatory approval and other contingencies and the risk that the timing of such sales are extended beyond what is currently anticipated or that some could fail to obtain regulatory approval. In addition, some of the pending sales are subject to capital-raising activities to facilitate the sale and, accordingly, are subject to the risk that the requisite funds may not be successfully raised. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 