Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the risks previously mentioned, the following important risk factors could adversely impact our business. These risk factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking and other statements that we make in periodic reports and other filings with the SEC, and that we make from time to time in our news releases, annual reports and other written communications, as well as other statements made from time to time by our representatives. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Factors may affect our future results (Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995). This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that relate to future events or our future financial performance. In addition, other statements we may make from time to time, such as press releases, oral statements made by our officials and other reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission may also contain such forward-looking statements. Undue reliance should not be placed on these statements which involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performances or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as "may," "will," "should," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "continue," or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: •the impact, effect and eventual result of the Chapter 11 Cases in restructuring our debt obligations under the Revolving Loan and Term Loan through; •Our and the other Debtors' ability to remain as a debtors-in-possession during the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases; •our ability to create stockholder value; 15 Table of Contents •our compliance with future debt covenants and actions we may take with respect thereto; •economic changes nationally or in local markets, including changes in consumer confidence, volatility of mortgage interest rates and inflation; •continued or increased downturn in the homebuilding industry; •statements about our strategies, plans, objectives, goals, expectations and intentions; •information relating to anticipated operating results, financial resources, changes in revenues, changes in profitability, interest expense, growth and expansion; •the impact of demographic trends and supply constraints on the demand for and supply of housing; •housing market conditions in the geographic markets in which we operate; •the number and types of homes and number of acres of land that we may develop and sell; •our ability to deliver homes from backlog; •the timing and outcomes of regulatory approval processes or administrative proceedings, which may result in delays in the land entitlement, development, construction, or the opening of new communities; •our ability to secure materials and subcontractors; •our ability to produce the liquidity and capital necessary to service our debt, fund operations, and expand and take advantage of future opportunities if current market conditions persist; •our cost of and ability to access additional capital; •our ability to realize the value of our net operating loss carry forwards; •our ability to continue relationships with current or future partners; •the effectiveness and adequacy of our disclosure and internal controls; •the impact of recent accounting pronouncements; and •stock market valuations. Any or all of the forward-looking statements included in this report and in any other reports or public statements made by us are not guarantees of future performance and may turn out to be inaccurate. This can occur as a result of incorrect assumptions or as a consequence of known or unknown risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include the unpredictability of the Chapter 11 bankruptcy process; the competitive environment in which we operate; local, regional and national economic conditions; the effects of the recent national credit market crisis; inflation and the recession; our ability to comply with the covenants and amortization schedules contained in our Revolving and Term Loan agreements; the demand for homes; adverse market conditions that could result in additional inventory impairments, including an oversupply of unsold homes and declining home prices, among other things; declines in consumer confidence; increases in competition; fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing; mortgage foreclosure rates; the availability and cost of land for future growth; the availability of capital, including access under our existing credit facilities; uncertainties and fluctuations in capital and securities markets; changes in tax laws and their interpretation; legal proceedings; the ability of customers to finance the purchase of homes or sell existing homes; the availability and cost of labor and materials; the amount of our debt and the impact of restrictive covenants in our loan agreements; adverse weather conditions; domestic and international political events; geopolitical risks and the uncertainties created by terrorist attacks; the effects of governmental regulation, including regulations concerning development of land, the home 16 Table of Contents building industry, sales and customer financing processes, and the environment; and other risks discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Many factors mentioned in this report or in other reports or public statements made by us, such as government regulation and the competitive environment, will be important in determining our future performance. Consequently, actual results may differ materially from those that might be anticipated from our forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on any of these forward-looking statements because they are based on current expectations or beliefs regarding future events or circumstances, which involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performances or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Although we believe that our strategies, plans, objectives, goals, expectations and intentions reflected in, or suggested by these forward-looking statements are reasonable given current information available to us, we can give no assurance that any of them will be achieved. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, any further disclosures made on related subjects in our subsequent 2010 reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K should be consulted. These forward-looking statements should be considered in light of the information included in this report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, without limitation, the "Risk Factors" set forth below, as well as the description of trends and other factors in the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," section of this Form 10-K. You should also read the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this report. The following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possible inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business includes factors we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Other factors beyond those listed below, including factors unknown to us and factors known to us which we have not determined to be material, could also adversely affect us. This discussion is provided as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. BANKRUPTCY RISKS We filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. As more fully described in Item 1—Business, we and the other Debtors filed the Chapter 11 Cases on October 27, 2009 and we continue to operate our business as it relates to these Debtors as debtors-in-possession under the jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court and in accordance with the applicable provisions of Chapter 11. Our operations, including our ability to execute our business plan, have been and will remain subject to the risks and uncertainties that are inherently associated with bankruptcy proceedings. Risks and uncertainties associated with these proceedings include, but are not limited to the following: •Actions and decisions of our creditors and other third parties with interests in our Chapter 11 Cases, which may be inconsistent with our plans; •Our ability to obtain court approval with respect to motions made from time to time in the Chapter 11 Cases that we believe are in the best interests of our business operations, including those relating to our continuation as a debtor-in-possession; 17 Table of Contents •Our ability to develop, prosecute, confirm, and consummate a plan of reorganization with respect to the Chapter 11 Cases; •Our ability to obtain and maintain commercially reasonable terms with vendors and service providers; •Our ability to maintain contracts that are critical to our operations; •Our ability to retain management and other key individuals; and •We may encounter third parties seeking and obtaining Bankruptcy Court approval to terminate or shorten the exclusivity period for us to propose and confirm a plan of reorganization, to terminate our status as a debtor-in-possession, to appoint a trustee under Chapter 11, or to convert the Chapter 11 Cases into liquidations under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. These risks and uncertainties could affect our business and operations in various ways. For example, negative events or publicity associated with the proceedings could adversely affect our home sales and relationships with our customers, as well as with vendors and employees, which in turn could adversely affect our operations and financial condition, particularly if the Chapter 11 Cases are protracted. Also, transactions outside the ordinary course of business are subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. In addition, in order to successfully emerge from the Chapter 11 Cases, senior management will be required to spend significant amounts of time developing a comprehensive plan of reorganization, instead of concentrating exclusively on business operations. These proceedings and the development of a plan of reorganization may result in the sale or divestiture of assets, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to complete any sale or divestiture on acceptable terms or at all. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with the proceedings, the ultimate impact that events which occur during these proceedings will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be accurately predicted or quantified. There can be no assurance as to what values, if any, will be ascribed in the Chapter 11 Cases to our various pre-petition assets, liabilities, common stock, and other securities. Our cash flow from operations may not provide sufficient liquidity during the remainder of the Chapter 11 Cases. In the event that cash flows from our home sales are not sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements, we may be required to seek additional financing. There can be no assurance that such additional financing would be available or, if available, would be offered on acceptable terms. Failure to secure any necessary additional financing would have a material adverse impact on our operations and ongoing viability. Our liquidity position imposes significant challenges to our ability to continue operations. As global economic conditions have deteriorated, we have experienced significant pressure on our business, including our liquidity position. The Chapter 11 Cases may increase this pressure. Because of the public disclosure of our liquidity constraints, our ability to maintain normal credit terms with suppliers may become impaired. If liquidity problems persist, suppliers could refuse to provide key products and services in the future. Our financial condition and results of operations, in particular with regard to our potential failure to meet debt obligations, may lead some customers to become reluctant to enter into home purchase agreements with us. In addition to the cash requirements necessary to fund continuing operations, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant professional fees and other restructuring costs in connection with the Chapter 11 Cases. The above factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. 18 Table of Contents During the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases, our financial results may be unstable and may not reflect historical trends. During the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases, our financial results may fluctuate as they reflect asset impairments, asset dispositions, restructuring activities, contract terminations and rejections, and claims assessments. As a result, our historical financial performance may not be indicative of the financial performance following the commencement of the Chapter 11 Cases. Further, we may sell or otherwise dispose of assets or businesses and liquidate or settle liabilities, with court approval, for amounts other than those reflected in the Company's historical financial statements. Any such sale or disposition and any comprehensive restructuring plan could materially change the amounts and classifications reported in our historical consolidated financial statements, which may not give effect to any further adjustments to the carrying value of assets or amounts of liabilities that might be necessary as a consequence of our restructuring plan. We may not be able to obtain confirmation of a Chapter 11 plan of reorganization submitted for Bankruptcy Court approval. In order to successfully emerge from Chapter 11 as a viable entity, we believe that we must develop, and obtain requisite court and creditor approval of a feasible Chapter 11 plan of reorganization. This process requires us and the other Debtors to meet certain statutory requirements with respect to adequacy of disclosure with respect to the plan of reorganization, soliciting and obtaining creditor acceptances of the plan, and fulfilling other statutory conditions for confirmation. We and the other Debtors may not receive the requisite acceptances to confirm the plan. Even if the requisite acceptances of the plan of reorganization are received, the Bankruptcy Court may not confirm the plan. A dissenting holder of a claim against the Debtors may challenge the balloting procedures and results as not being in compliance with the Bankruptcy Code. Even if the Bankruptcy Court determined that the balloting procedures and results were appropriate, the Bankruptcy Court could still decline to confirm the plan of reorganization if it found that any of the statutory requirements for confirmation had not been met, including that the terms of the plan are fair and equitable to non-accepting classes. Section 1129 of the Bankruptcy Code sets forth the requirements for confirmation and requires, among other things, a finding by the Bankruptcy Court that (i) the plan of reorganization "does not unfairly discriminate" and is "fair and equitable" with respect to any non-accepting classes, (ii) confirmation of the plan is not likely to be followed by a liquidation or a need for further financial reorganization and (iii) the value of distributions to non-accepting holders of claims within a particular class under the plan will not be less than the value of distributions such holders would receive if the Debtors were to be liquidated under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. The Bankruptcy Court may determine that the plan of reorganization does not satisfy one or more of these requirements, in which case it would not be confirmable by the Bankruptcy Court. If the plan of reorganization is not confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, it is unclear whether we would be able to reorganize our businesses and what, if any, distributions holders of claims against us would ultimately receive with respect to their claims. If an alternative reorganization could not be agreed upon, it is possible that we would have to liquidate our assets, in which case it is likely that holders of claims would receive substantially less favorable treatment than they would receive if we were to emerge as a viable, reorganized entity. The Chapter 11 Cases have consumed and will consume a substantial portion of the time and attention of our corporate management and will impact how our business is conducted, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The requirements of the Chapter 11 Cases has consumed and will continue to consume a substantial portion of our corporate management's time and attention and leave them with less time to devote to the operations of our business. This diversion of corporate management's attention may have 19 Table of Contents a material adverse effect on the conduct of our business, and, as a result, on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if the Chapter 11 Cases are protracted. A prolonged period of operating under Chapter 11 will also make it more difficult to attract and retain management and other key personnel necessary to the success and growth of our business. In addition, the longer the Chapter 11 Cases continue, the more likely it is that our customers and suppliers will lose confidence in our ability to successfully reorganize and seek to establish alternative commercial relationships. Furthermore, so long as the Chapter 11 Cases continue, we will be required to incur substantial costs for professional fees and other expenses associated with the proceedings. A prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases may also require us to seek additional financing. If we require additional financing during the Chapter 11 Cases and we are unable to obtain the financing on favorable terms or at all, our chances of successfully reorganizing our businesses may be seriously jeopardized. Our employees are facing considerable distractions and uncertainty due to the Chapter 11 Cases. As a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, our employees are facing considerable distractions and uncertainty. A material erosion of employee morale could have a material adverse effect on our business, particularly if the Chapter 11 Cases are protracted. The Bankruptcy Court may impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, compliance or non-compliance with which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and operations. Restrictions imposed by the Bankruptcy Court could adversely affect us by limiting our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or to meet our capital needs. We must obtain Bankruptcy Court approval to, among other things: •incur additional indebtedness and issue stock; •make prepayments on or purchase indebtedness in whole or in part; •pay dividends and other distributions with respect to our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock or make other restricted payments; •make investments; •enter into transactions with affiliates on other than arm's-length terms; •create or incur liens to secure debt; •consolidate or merge with another entity, or allow one of our subsidiaries to do so; •lease, transfer or sell assets and use proceeds of permitted asset leases, transfers or sales; •incur dividend or other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; •make capital expenditures beyond specified limits; •engage in specified business activities; and •acquire land to be developed or other businesses. COMMON STOCK RISKS Trading in our securities during the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases is highly speculative and poses substantial risks. Trading prices for our common stock are very volatile. Accordingly, we urge that extreme caution be exercised with respect to existing and future investments in our equity securities. 20 Table of Contents Potential Nasdaq Delisting. On October 28, 2009, we received a letter from Nasdaq notifying us that it had determined to delist our common stock from trading as a result of our commencement of the Chapter 11 Cases. We appealed the Nasdaq determination on December 3, 2009 and, on December 29, 2009, the Nasdaq Hearings Panel granted our request to remain listed, subject to certain conditions. The Panel's continued listing decision is conditioned upon us (1) providing periodic updates as to the status of the Brightwater credit facilities restructuring efforts, and (2) emerging from the Chapter 11 process no later than April 26, 2010. We do not believe that it will be possible to emerge from the Chapter 11 process by the April 26 deadline, and there can be no assurance that we receive the significant extension we intend to request in order to remain listed until the Chapter 11 Cases have been completed. Therefore, our common stock could be delisted which would halt trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Risks of trading in an over-the-counter market. Once delisted, our common stock would not be immediately eligible to trade over-the-counter through the OTC Bulletin Board or in the "Pink Sheets;" however, the common stock may become eligible for such trading if a market maker applies to quote the common stock in accordance with SEC Rule 15c2-11, and such application is approved. If we do not meet the conditions for continued listing and our common stock is delisted, negative implications may be associated with the delisting, including potential loss in confidence in us by suppliers and customers and the loss of institutional investor interest in our common stock. The trading of our common stock on the over-the-counter marked rather than on Nasdaq may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. In addition, securities that trade over-the-counter are not eligible for margin loans and will make our common stock subject to the provisions of Rule 15g-9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), commonly referred to as the "penny stock rule." Securities traded in the over-the-counter market generally have significantly less liquidity than securities traded on a national securities exchange, through factors such as a reduction in the number of investors that will consider investing in the securities, the number of market makers in the securities, reduction in securities analyst and news media coverage and lower market prices than might otherwise be obtained. As a result, holders of shares of our common stock may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. Furthermore, because of the limited market and generally low volume of trading in our common stock that could occur, the share price of our common stock could be more likely to be affected by broad market fluctuations, general market conditions, fluctuations in our operating results, changes in the markets perception of our business, and announcements made by us, our competitors or parties with whom we have business relationships. With respect to the Company, in some cases, we may be subject to additional compliance requirements under applicable state laws in the issuance of our securities. The lack of liquidity in our common stock may also make it difficult for us to issue additional securities for financing or other purposes, or to otherwise arrange for any financing we may need in the future. BUSINESS RISKS The homebuilding industry has undergone a significant and sustained downturn which has, and could continue to, materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity and results of operations. The homebuilding and mortgage lending industries have experienced a significant and sustained downturn, which negatively impacted our financial and operating results during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. Unprecedented levels of national concern over instability in the credit markets, along with concerns over the recession and elevated levels of unemployment, have exacerbated the decline in demand for new homes. The conditions experienced during 2009 include, among other 21 Table of Contents things: reduced consumer confidence; significant concerns over the impact of higher-risk mortgage loan products on the banking system and financial markets; reduced availability and higher costs of mortgage loan financing; fluctuating energy costs; the absence of home price stability; and continued declines in the value of new homes. All of these factors have contributed to the significant decline in the demand for new homes. Moreover, the government's legislative and administrative measures aimed at providing relief to homeowners facing foreclosure may not effectively stabilize home prices and values or restore consumer confidence and increase demand in the homebuilding industry. As a result of these conditions we experienced both lower overall sales compared to prior years and downward pressure on our selling prices and margins in 2009, as competition increased the need for sales incentives. In addition, during 2009 we recorded $11.7 million of impairments to our real estate inventories in Southern California due to challenging market conditions and uncertainties resulting from our ongoing bankruptcy proceedings. The impairment charges were calculated based on current market conditions and current assumptions made by management, which may differ materially from actual results if market conditions change. If market conditions do not improve in future periods, we may decide not to pursue development and construction in additional areas, and the value of existing land holdings may continue to decline, which could lead to further write-offs for land impairments. If the downturn in the homebuilding and mortgage lending industries continues, or if the national economy experiences a "double-dip" recession, we could experience further declines in the market value and demand for our homes, which could have a significant negative impact on our gross margins from home sales and financial and operational results. Also, the prices of land and new homes, and the stock prices of companies like ours that build new homes, may decline further if the demand for new homes continues to weaken. A decline in the prices for new homes has had and would continue to have an adverse effect on our homebuilding business, in particular on our revenues and margins. A further decline in our stock price could also make financing or raising capital more difficult and expensive. We believe the principal factors that have caused this downturn include each of the following: •declining homebuyer demand due to lower consumer confidence in the residential real estate market and an inability of many homebuyers to sell their existing homes; •increased inventory of existing homes for sale, including the impact of increases in residential foreclosures; •reduced availability of mortgage financing due to the significant mortgage market disruptions; •decreased affordability of housing as a result of tightened credit standards for homebuyers; and •pricing pressures resulting from a variety of factors, including the decision of homebuilders to offer significant discounts and sales incentives to liquidate unsold inventories in order to generate cash, and the need for home prices to fall within mortgage qualification limits. During 2009, we, like many other homebuilders, faced a difficult sales environment and, while we delivered 31 Brightwater homes and 18 homes at our inland projects, we generated reduced margins. These conditions have led to, among other things, substantial land-related impairments at our inland projects which generated operating losses. As a result, our homebuilding operations at our inland projects incurred additional losses. While there are signs that the housing market in southern California may be stabilizing, any worsening in market conditions could have a further material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We can provide no assurances that the homebuilding market will improve in the near future. In fact, we expect the market to remain challenged to varying degrees throughout 2010, which may have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Our strategies in responding to the adverse conditions in the homebuilding industry may not be successful. While we continue to monitor and modify our strategies in responding to the current economic environment, the effectiveness of these strategies in future reporting periods is unknown. To the extent they are not successful, our financial and operating results may be adversely impacted. We have experienced significantly reduced gross operating profit levels and have incurred additional asset impairment charges in 2009 primarily for inland projects, which contributed to the net loss we recognized in 2009. Also, in 2009, notwithstanding our sales strategies, we continued to experience significant reductions in sales volume. We believe that the volatile cancellation rates largely reflected a decrease in homebuyer confidence based on sustained home price declines, increased offerings of sales incentives in the marketplace for both new and existing homes and generally poor economic conditions, and the filing of our Chapter 11 Cases, all of which prompted homebuyers to forgo or delay home purchases. The more restrictive mortgage lending environment and the inability of some buyers to sell their existing homes have also led to lower demand for new homes. Many of these factors affecting new orders are beyond our control. It is uncertain how long these factors will continue. To the extent that they do, we expect that they will have a negative effect on our business and our results of operations. Market conditions in mortgage industries deteriorated significantly in 2008 and remained difficult in 2009, which adversely affected the availability of credit for home purchasers and reduced the number of potential mortgage customers. During 2008 and 2009, the mortgage lending and mortgage finance industries experienced significant instability due to, among other things, rising defaults on subprime loans and a resulting decline in the market value of such loans. In light of these developments, lenders, investors, regulators and other third parties questioned the adequacy of lending standards and other credit requirements for several loan programs made available to borrowers in recent years. This has led to reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, tightened credit requirements, reduced liquidity, increased credit risk premiums and regulatory actions. Deterioration in credit quality among subprime and other nonconforming loans has caused most lenders to eliminate subprime mortgages and most other loan products that do not conform to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, FHA or VA standards. Fewer loan products and tighter loan qualifications make it more difficult for some categories of borrowers to finance the purchase of our homes or the purchase of existing homes from potential move-up buyers who wish to purchase one of our homes. In general, these developments have resulted in a reduction in demand for the homes we sell and have delayed any general improvement in the housing market. While mortgage market conditions appear to be improving, there can be no assurance that continued limitations in the availability of mortgages will not adversely affect our business and results of operations in 2010. We have incurred a significant amount of debt, and we may incur significant additional debt, which could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations and harm our financial health. As of December 31, 2009, our debt obligations totaled $204.0 million. In addition, subject to the restrictions in our credit facilities, we may incur significant additional indebtedness. There is no guarantee that additional borrowings would be available to us. In addition, as these and other factors change, the amount of additional senior borrowing we could incur under these restrictions could increase or decrease significantly. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and borrowings may not be available to us under our credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. 23 Table of Contents The amount of our indebtedness could also have the following important consequences: •making us more vulnerable to the ongoing downturn in our business or in general economic conditions; •requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt and reducing our ability to use our cash flow for other purposes; •limiting our flexibility to engage in certain transactions or to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and the homebuilding industry; •limiting our ability to obtain future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt obligations and other general corporate requirements; •placing us at a disadvantage compared to competitors who have less debt than we do; and •make us more vulnerable in the event of a further downturn in our business or in general economic conditions. Our credit facilities impose restrictions on our operations and activities and require us to comply with certain financial covenants, including a maximum leverage ratio, minimum ratio of EBITDA to interest incurred, restrictions on debt incurrence, sales of assets and cash distributions by us. If we fail to comply with these restrictions or covenants, our debt could become due and payable prior to maturity. As a result of the sustained downturn in the homebuilding industry and the impairment charges we recorded during 2008, we amended our Revolving Loan and Term Loan credit facilities in September 2008 to provide for an option to extend the maturity of our Revolving Loan, to reschedule payments and to modify financial and other covenants in order to accommodate our 2008 and 2009 operating results. Our inability to obtain a further consensual amendment to these credit facilities led to the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases in order to, among other things, extend the maturity dates and change the repayment schedules to provide full repayment of the Revolving Loan by December 31, 2013 and the Term Loan by June 30, 2014. However, there can be no assurance that we and the other Debtors will be able to successfully develop, execute, confirm and consummate one or more plans of reorganization with respect to the Chapter 11 Cases that are acceptable to the Bankruptcy Court and the creditors and other parties in interest. In addition, if we are successful in these endeavors, there can also be no assurance that we will not be required to seek further covenant or other amendments to our credit facilities, or that any such requested amendments will be agreed to by our post-bankruptcy lenders. Our ability to meet our post-bankruptcy debt service and other obligations will depend upon our future performance. We are engaged in businesses that are substantially affected by changes in economic cycles. Our revenues and earnings vary with the level of general economic activity in the markets we serve. Our business is also affected by customer sentiment and financial, political, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The factors that affect our ability to generate cash can also affect our ability to raise additional funds for these purposes through the sale of equity securities, the refinancing of debt, or the sale of assets. Changes in prevailing interest rates may affect our ability to meet our debt service obligations, because borrowings under our loan agreements bear interest at floating rates. A higher interest rate on our debt service obligations could result in lower earnings. Our post-bankruptcy business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and borrowings may not be available to us under our loan agreements in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may also need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. 24 Table of Contents Failure to comply with the covenants and conditions imposed by the agreements governing our indebtedness could restrict future borrowing or cause our debt to become immediately due and payable. The post-bankruptcy agreements that will govern our credit facilities will impose restrictions on our operations and activities. Significant restrictions may require us to comply with financial covenants, limit investments, cash dividends, stock repurchases and other restricted payments, incurrence of indebtedness, and creation of liens and asset dispositions. We may also be required to receive an unqualified report from our independent registered accounting firm in connection with its annual audit of our financial statements. Moreover, we may curtail our investment activities and other uses of cash to maintain compliance with these restrictions and covenants. If we fail to comply with these restrictions or covenants, the lenders could cause our debt to become due and payable prior to maturity or could demand that we compensate them for waiving any instances of noncompliance. In such a situation, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain alternative financing, which could have a material adverse effect on our post-bankruptcy solvency. In the event we were to further amend our loan agreements, such amendments could result in less favorable terms and conditions, which could have a negative impact on our borrowing capacity and/or cash flows. Our ability to meet our post-bankruptcy debt service and other obligations will depend upon our future performance. Our business is substantially affected by changes in economic cycles. Our revenues, earnings and cash flows vary with the level of general economic activity and competition in the markets in which we operate. Our business could also be affected by financial, political and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Changes in prevailing interest rates may also affect our ability to meet our debt service obligations because borrowings under our credit facilities bear interest at floating rates. A higher interest rate on our debt could adversely affect our operating results. Our post-bankruptcy business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and borrowings may not be available to us under our credit facilities in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. Should this occur, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. Continued reductions in level of home deliveries, additional impairment charges and other financial performance factors may negatively impact our ability to comply with our financial covenants; and there can be no assurance that we will not violate the financial or other covenants under our loan agreements in the future. Current credit market conditions present uncertainty as to our ability to secure additional financing, if needed, and the terms of such financing if it is available, and as to our ability to achieve positive cash flow from operations required to satisfy our obligations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our post-bankruptcy covenants, payment schedules or our other requirements in our Revolving Loan and Term Loan credit facilities if market conditions worsen. If we are unable to comply with or meet any one or more of our obligations under these loans, we could be precluded from incurring additional borrowings and, in the event of default, our obligation to repay indebtedness outstanding under these loans could be accelerated in full. We can give no assurance that in such an event, we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to pay all debt we are required to repay. Availability of Additional Liquidity The availability of additional capital, whether from private capital sources (including banks) or the public capital markets, fluctuates as market conditions change. There may be times when the private capital markets and the public debt or equity markets lack sufficient liquidity or when our securities cannot be sold at attractive prices, in which case we would not be able to access capital from these sources. Based on current market conditions, our ability to effectively access these liquidity sources is significantly limited. In addition, a further weakening of our financial condition, including in particular 25 Table of Contents a material decrease in our profitability or cash flows, could adversely affect our ability to obtain necessary funds or otherwise increase our cost of borrowing. Moreover, due to the deterioration in the credit markets for small businesses such as ours and the uncertainties that exist in the general economy and for homebuilders in particular, we cannot be certain that we would be able to replace existing financing or secure additional sources of financing, and lenders may be unwilling to lend to us because we filed the Chapter 11 Cases .. In addition, the significant decline in our stock price, the ongoing volatility in the stock markets and the reduction in our stockholders' equity relative to our debt could also impede our access to the equity markets or increase the amount of dilution our stockholders would experience should we seek or need to raise capital through issuance of equity. Our results of operations are subject to significant changes in the cost of raw materials and other components of our houses and labor that are dependent on or impacted by increases in energy costs. The cost of fuel and other sources of energy and other raw material costs may increase. Increases in energy costs would increase costs for our suppliers, who provide raw materials and the other components of our houses and infrastructure, and subcontractors, whose employees help construct our homes. Many of these cost increases are passed on to us, and these and any additional cost increases could materially and adversely affect our cost of sales and operating profits. Changes in laws or other events that adversely affect liquidity in the secondary mortgage market could hurt our business. The government-sponsored enterprises, principally FNMA and FHLMC, play a significant role in buying home mortgages and creating investment securities that they either sell to investors or hold in their portfolios. These organizations provide liquidity to the secondary mortgage market. FNMA and FHLMC have recently experienced financial difficulties. Any new federal laws or regulations that restrict or curtail their activities, or any other events or conditions that prevent or restrict these enterprises from continuing their historic businesses, could affect the ability of our customers to obtain the mortgage loans or could increase mortgage interest rates or credit standards, which could reduce demand for our homes and/or the loans that we originate and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 prohibits, as of October 15, 2008, seller funded down payment assistance programs. As a result of these trends, the ability and willingness of prospective buyers to finance home purchases or to sell their existing homes has been adversely affected, which has adversely affected our operating results. These conditions may continue or worsen. We may be unable to obtain suitable bonding for the development of our communities. We provide bonds to governmental authorities and others to ensure the completion of our projects. Our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our past performance, capitalization, working capital, management expertise and certain external factors, including the overall capacity of the surety market and the underwriting practices of surety bond issuers. If we are unable to provide required surety bonds for our projects, our business operations and revenues could be adversely affected. As a result of the recent deterioration in market conditions, surety bond capacity has decreased and providers have become increasingly reluctant to issue new bonds and some providers are requesting credit enhancements in order to maintain existing bonds or to issue new bonds. If we are unable to obtain required bonds in the future, or are required to provide credit enhancements with respect to our current or future bonds, our liquidity could be negatively impacted. 26 Table of Contents In the ordinary course of business, we are required to obtain performance bonds, the unavailability of which could adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. As is customary in the homebuilding industry, we often are required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance under construction contracts, development agreements and other arrangements. If we were unable to obtain surety bonds when required, our results of operations and/or cash flows could be impacted adversely. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive and, with more limited resources than many of our competitors, we may not be able to compete effectively. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete with numerous other residential construction firms, including large national and regional firms, for customers, land, financing, raw materials, skilled labor and employees. We compete for customers primarily on the basis of the location, design, quality and price of our homes and the availability of mortgage financing. Some of our competitors have substantially larger operations and greater financial resources than we do and as a result may have lower costs of capital, labor and materials than us, and may be able to compete more effectively. Many of our competitors are better capitalized and have lower leverage than we do, which may position them to compete more effectively on price (which can trigger impairments), better enable them to ride out the current industry-wide downturn and allow them to compete more effectively for land acquisitions when conditions improve. We are subject to current credit market risks. Current credit market conditions for small businesses such as ours present uncertainty as to our ability to secure additional financing, if needed, and the terms of such financing if it is available, or as to our ability to achieve positive cash flow from operations to satisfy our obligations. Our homebuilding operations lack geographic diversification. All of our developable land is in southern California and our business is especially sensitive to the economic conditions within southern California. Any adverse change in the economic climate of California, which is currently in a recession, or our region of that state, and any adverse change in the political or regulatory climate of California, or the counties where our land is located could adversely affect our real estate development activities. Our current homebuilding operations are limited to the counties of Orange and Los Angeles in Southern California. Because we do not have more diversified geographic operations, the following risk factors should be considered with extreme care given the potential material adverse effect on our limited operations that could occur if any of these risks become a reality. Our business is cyclical and downward changes in economic conditions generally or in the market regions where we operate could further decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas. The residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as those which are listed below. Adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the market regions where we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings. Our business is substantially affected by changes in national and general economic factors outside of our control, such as: •short and long term interest rates; 27 Table of Contents •the availability of financing for homebuyers; •consumer confidence (which can be substantially affected by external conditions, including international hostilities involving the United States); •consumer income; •federal mortgage financing programs; and •federal and state income tax provisions, including provisions for the deduction of mortgage interest payments. The cyclicality of our business is also highly sensitive to changes in economic conditions that can occur on a local or regional basis, such as changes in: •housing demand; •population growth; •employment levels and job growth; and •property taxes. The factors described above can cause demand and prices for our homes to diminish or cause us to take longer and incur more costs to build our homes. We may not be able to recover these increased costs by raising prices because prices have been declining over the last three years and the price of each home is usually set several months before the home is delivered, as our customers typically sign their home purchase contracts before construction has even begun on their homes. In addition, some of the factors described above could cause some homebuyers to renegotiate for lower prices or cancel their home purchase contracts altogether. Inflation may result in increased costs that we may not be able to recoup if demand declines. Inflation can have a long-term impact on us because increasing costs of land, materials and labor may require us to increase the sales price of homes in order to maintain satisfactory margins. However, inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which can have a negative impact on housing demand, in which case we may not be able to raise home prices sufficiently to keep up with the rate of inflation and our margins could decrease. Severe weather conditions and natural disasters could delay deliveries, increase costs and decrease demand for new homes in affected areas. Weather conditions and natural disasters such as earthquakes, landslides, floods, droughts, fires, extended periods of rain and other environmental conditions can harm our homebuilding business on a local or regional basis. Civil unrest can also have an adverse effect on our homebuilding business. When mortgage-financing costs are high, or as credit quality declines, customers may be unwilling or unable to purchase our homes. The majority of our homebuyers finance their purchases through our relationships with Wells Fargo or third-party lenders. In general, housing demand is adversely affected by increases in interest rates and by decreases in the availability of mortgage financing as a result of declining customer credit quality, tightening of mortgage loan underwriting standards, or other issues. Our operating results may be adversely affected if mortgage interest rates increase or mortgage loans become more difficult to obtain, or the ability or willingness of prospective buyers to finance home purchases is adversely affected. The interest rates on jumbo mortgages have exceeded interest rates on conforming loans by as much as 170 basis points since August 2007, compared with a "normal" historical spread of 25 to 30 28 Table of Contents basis points. As of February 2010, the spread has improved significantly, approximating 50 to 80 basis points. Since homes at Brightwater, our only active new home community, are priced in excess of the recent conforming loan ceiling of $417,000, these higher interest rates on jumbo mortgages have significantly reduced demand for our homes. Some homebuyers may cancel their home purchases because the required deposits are small and generally refundable; or if buyers are concerned about our bankruptcy, new home prices decline, interest rates increase or there is a further downturn in the economy. Our backlog numbers reflect the number of homes for which we have entered into a sales contract with a customer but not yet delivered. Sales contracts for our Brightwater project in Huntington Beach require a deposit equal to 3% of the sales price, plus additional amounts for options, and the deposit is generally refundable if customers are unable to close on the sale of their existing home, fail to qualify for financing or under certain other circumstances. Our bankruptcy is also of concern to potential homebuyers and the changing dynamics of the Chapter 11 Cases has resulted in, and may continue to result in cancellations. Declines in home prices, interest rate increases or further downturn in local or regional economies or the national economy, could also cause homebuyers to terminate their existing sales contracts. Such a result could have an adverse effect on our homebuilding business, financial condition, and our results of operations. Tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive. Significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally are deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual's federal, and in some cases state, taxable income. If the government were to make changes to income tax laws that eliminate or substantially reduce these income tax deductions, the after-tax cost of owning a new home would increase substantially. This could adversely impact demand for, and/or sales prices of, new homes. Mortgage defaults by homebuyers who financed homes using non-traditional financing products are increasing the number of homes available for resale. During the period of high demand in the homebuilding industry, many homebuyers financed their purchases using non-traditional adjustable rate or interest-only mortgages or other mortgages, including sub-prime mortgages that involved at least during initial years, monthly payments that were significantly lower than those required by conventional fixed rate mortgages. As a result, new homes became more affordable. However, as monthly payments for these homes increase either as a result of increasing adjustable interest rates or as a result of principal payments coming due, some of these homebuyers have defaulted on their payments and had their homes foreclosed, which has increased the inventory of homes available for resale. This is likely to continue. Foreclosure sales and other distress sales may result in further declines in market prices for homes. In an environment of declining prices, many homebuyers may delay purchases of homes in anticipation of lower prices in the future. In addition, as lenders perceive deterioration in credit quality among homebuyers, lenders have been eliminating some of the available non-traditional and sub-prime financing products and increasing the qualifications needed for mortgages or adjusting their terms to address increased credit risk. In general, to the extent mortgage rates increase or lenders make it more difficult for prospective buyers to finance home purchases, it becomes more difficult or costly for customers to purchase our homes, which has an adverse effect on our sales volume. Competition for homebuyers, labor and materials could reduce our deliveries or decrease our profitability. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive for skilled labor, materials and suitable land, as well as homebuyers. We compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders many of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. In addition, smaller 29 Table of Contents regional and local builders can have an advantage in local markets because of long-standing relationships they may have with local labor or land sellers. This competition with other homebuilders could reduce the number of homes we deliver, or cause us to accept reduced margins in order to maintain sales volume. We also compete with resales of existing used or foreclosed homes, housing speculators and available rental housing. Increased competitive conditions in the residential resale or rental market in the regions where we operate could decrease demand for new homes and increase cancellations of sales contracts in backlog. Slow or no growth initiatives have been or may be adopted in regions where we operate, which could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build in these areas. Some municipalities where we operate have approved, and others where we operate may approve, various slow growth or no growth homebuilding initiatives and other ballot measures that could negatively impact the availability of land and building opportunities within those localities. Approval of slow growth, no growth or similar initiatives (including the effect of these initiatives on existing entitlements and zoning) could adversely affect our ability to build or timely build and sell homes in the affected markets and or create additional administrative and regulatory requirements and costs, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our future revenues and earnings. We may not be able to acquire land suitable for residential homebuilding at reasonable prices, which could increase our costs and reduce our revenues, earnings and margins. The availability of finished and partially developed lots and undeveloped land for purchase that meet our internal criteria depends on a number of factors outside our control, including land availability in general, competition with other homebuilders and land buyers for desirable property, inflation in land prices, and zoning, allowable housing density and other regulatory requirements. Our long-term ability to build homes depends upon our acquiring land suitable for residential building at reasonable prices in locations where we want to build. As competition for suitable land increases, and as available land is developed, the cost of acquiring suitable remaining land could rise, and the availability of suitable land at acceptable prices may decline. Any land shortages or any decrease in the supply of suitable land at reasonable prices could limit our ability to develop new communities or result in increased land costs. We may not be able to pass through to our customers any increased land costs, which could adversely impact our revenues, earnings and margins. We are subject to substantial legal and regulatory requirements regarding the development of land, the homebuilding process and protection of the environment, and compliance with federal, state and local regulations related to our business could have substantial costs both in time and money, and some regulations could prohibit or restrict some homebuilding projects. Our homebuilding business is heavily regulated and subject to increasing local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, resource protection, other environmental impacts, building design, construction and similar matters. These regulations often provide broad discretion to governmental authorities that regulate these matters, which can result in unanticipated delays or increases in the cost of a specified project or a number of projects in particular markets. We may also experience periodic delays in homebuilding projects due to building moratoria in any of the areas in which we operate. Our business is conducted in California, which is one of the most highly regulated and litigious states in the country. Therefore, our potential exposure to losses and expenses due to new laws, regulations or litigation may be greater than other homebuilders with a less significant California presence. 30 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development and homebuilding process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. In addition, we are subject to laws and regulations related to workers' health and safety. We generally are required to obtain permits, entitlements and approvals from local authorities to commence and complete residential development or home construction. Such permits, entitlements and approvals may, from time-to-time, be opposed or challenged by local governments, neighboring property owners or other interested parties, adding delays, costs and risks of non-approval to the process. Our obligation to comply with the laws and regulations under which we operate, and our obligation to ensure that our employees, subcontractors and other agents comply with these laws and regulations, could result in delays in construction and land development, cause us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. We are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the environment. These laws and regulations may cause delays in construction and delivery of new homes, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in certain environmentally sensitive regions or areas. In addition, environmental laws may impose liability for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances whether or not the developer or owner of the property knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of those substances. The presence of those substances on our properties may prevent us from selling our homes and we may also be liable, under applicable laws and regulations or lawsuits brought by private parties, for hazardous or toxic substances on properties and lots that we have sold in the past. Changing market conditions may adversely impact our ability to sell homes at expected prices, which could reduce our margins. There is often a significant amount of time between when we initially acquire land and when we begin to sell homes on that land. The market value of a proposed home can vary significantly during this time due to changing market conditions. In the past, we have benefited from increases in the value of homes over time, but as market conditions reverse, we have had to sell homes at lower prices than we anticipated. We have had to record write-downs of our home inventories and land holdings, and may need to record additional write-downs if market values continue to decline. Home prices and sales activity in the particular markets and regions in which we do business impact our results of operations because our business is concentrated in these markets. Home prices and sales activity in our key markets have declined from time to time for market-specific reasons, including economic contraction due to, among other things, the failure or decline of key industries and employers. If home prices or sales activity decline in one or more of the key markets in which we operate, our costs may not decline at all or at the same rate and, as a result, our overall results of operations may be adversely impacted. Product liability litigation and warranty claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly, which could adversely affect our business. As a homebuilder, we are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common in the homebuilding industry and can be costly. In addition, the costs of insuring against construction defect and product liability claims are high, and the amount of coverage offered by insurance companies is currently limited. There can be no assurance that this coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. If we are not able to obtain adequate insurance against these claims, we may experience losses that could impact our financial results. 31 Table of Contents Our controlling stockholders are able to exercise significant influence over us. Four (4) of our stockholders have approximately 46% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Their combined stock ownership enables them to exert significant control over us, including power to control the election of our Board of Directors and to approve matters presented to our stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also make some transactions, including mergers or other changes in control, more difficult or impossible without their support. Also, because of their combined voting power, circumstances may occur in which their interests could be in conflict with the interests of other stockholders. Our stock price is volatile and could further decline. The securities markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility over the past two years. The market price and volume of our common stock may continue to experience significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our industry, operations or business prospects. In addition to the other risk factors discussed in this section, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by: •events associated with the Chapter 11 Cases; •being delisted from trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market; •operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; •factors influencing home purchases, such as availability of home mortgage loans and interest rates, credit criteria applicable to prospective borrowers, ability to sell existing residences, and homebuyer sentiment in general; •the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider comparable to us; •announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; and •changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets. To the extent that the price of our common stock remains low or declines, our ability to raise funds through the issuance of equity or otherwise use our common stock as consideration will be reduced. This, in turn, may adversely impact our ability to reduce our financial leverage, as measured by the ratio of debt to total capital. Continued high levels of leverage or further increases may make it more difficult for us to access additional capital. These factors may limit our ability to implement future operating and growth plans. We could be hurt by the loss of key management personnel. Our future success depends, to a significant degree, on the efforts of our senior management. Our operations could be adversely affected if key members of senior management cease to be active in our company. An earthquake or other natural disaster, terrorist act or nuclear accident could adversely affect our business. Our Brightwater project, which commenced sales in August 2007 and represents substantially all of our real estate assets as of December 31, 2009, is located in a high risk geographical area for earthquakes. In addition, all of our other real estate assets are in southern California and could be directly or indirectly impacted by the event of an earthquake. Our real estate assets are also located in 32 Table of Contents areas that are subject to the risks of wildfires, floods and other natural disasters; and they are also in proximity to urban and coastal areas which have, in recent years, been high risk geographical areas for terrorism and threats of terrorism. Finally, our real estate assets are located within 40 miles of the San Onofre nuclear power facility. Future earthquakes or other natural disasters, acts of terrorism or nuclear accidents could result in the destruction or loss of our real estate assets or adversely impact the demand for our homes and could, thereafter, materially impact the availability or cost of any insurance we might obtain to protect against these events. Any earthquake or other natural disaster, terrorist attack, or nuclear accident, whether or not insured, could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, the market value of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. Quarterly results may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future quarterly performance. Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate; therefore, you should not rely on past quarterly results to be indicative of our performance in future quarters. Factors that could cause quarterly operating results to fluctuate include, among others, the risk factors in this Annual Report and those set forth in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed during 2009. Our net operating loss carryforwards could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. We currently have a substantial amount of net operating loss carryforwards and, based on recent impairments and our current financial performance, we may generate net operating loss carryforwards for the year ending December 31, 2009, and possibly future years. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code contains rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change, which is generally any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year period, to utilize its net operating loss carryforwards and certain built in losses recognized in years after the ownership change. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company or any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by a company. If we undergo an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 as a result of future transactions involving our common stock, including purchases or sales of stock between 5% stockholders, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and recognize certain built in gains would be subject to the limitations of Section 382. Depending on the resulting limitation, a significant portion of our net operating loss carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them. Our inability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards could have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. If any taxing authorities are successful in asserting tax positions that are contrary to our positions, our income tax provision and other tax reserves may be insufficient. In order to determine our provision for income taxes and for our reserves for federal, state, local and other taxes we must use significant judgment and there may be matters for which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Therefore, no assurance can be given that the final tax authority review will not be materially different than that which is reflected in our income tax provision and other tax reserves. Any adverse differences could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision or benefits, or other tax reserves, in the period in which such determination is made and, consequently, on our net income for such period. To provide for potential tax exposures, we maintain reserves for tax contingencies based on reasonable estimates of our potential exposure with respect to the tax liabilities that may result from such audits. However, if the reserves are insufficient upon completion of any audit process, there could be an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. 33 Table of Contents Changes in accounting principles, interpretations and practices may affect our reported revenues, earnings and results of operations. Generally accepted accounting principles and accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, interpretations and practices for certain aspects of our business are complex and may involve subjective judgments, such as cost of sales, inventory valuations and income taxes. Changes in these areas could significantly affect our reported costs, earnings and operating results. Future terrorist attacks against the United States or increased domestic or international instability could have an adverse effect on our operations. Adverse developments in the war on terrorism, future terrorist attacks against the United States, or increased domestic or international instability could adversely affect our business. Insurance coverages and terms and conditions. We negotiate our insurance contracts annually for property, casualty, workers compensation, general liability, health insurance, and directors and officers liability coverage. Due to conditions within these insurance markets and other factors beyond our control, future coverage limits, terms and conditions and the amount of the related premiums could have a negative impact on our operating results. While we continually measure the risk/reward of policy limits and coverage, the lack of coverage in certain circumstances could result in potential uninsured losses. Errors in estimates and judgments that affect decisions about how we operate and on the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses could have a material impact on us. In the ordinary course of doing business, we must make estimates and judgments that affect decisions about how we operate and on the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. These estimates include, but are not limited to, those related to the recognition of income and expenses; impairment of assets; estimates of future improvement and amenity costs; estimates of sales levels and sales prices; capitalization of costs to inventory; provisions for litigation, insurance and warranty costs; cost of complying with government regulations; and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate and adjust our estimates based upon the information then currently available. Actual results may differ from these estimates, assumptions and conditions. Our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our common stock. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at the end of each fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not internal control over financial reporting is effective. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and otherwise comply with the requirements of Section 404 could have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our common stock. Such noncompliance could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, perceptions of our business among customers, suppliers, rating agencies, lenders, investors, securities analysts, and others could be adversely affected. 34 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 