ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We currently have insufficient capital resources to fund our operations through the second quarter of 2006. On December 31, 2005, we had approximately $4.6 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Based on our burn rate for cash used in operations during the first quarter of 2006 and our expected burn rate for the second quarter of 2006, this amount of cash and current investments is insufficient to fund our operations through the second quarter of 2006. However, we have entered into negotiations with a lead investor to potentially provide significant financing to the Company. However, there can be no guarantee that we will consummate the financing transaction on terms beneficial to us, or at all. In the event we are unable to consummate the financing within a short period of time, we will need to explore other strategic alternatives, including but not limited to, filing for bankruptcy protection. There is no guarantee that we will realize sufficient value from the sale of any of our other assets in bankruptcy. In the event we seek bankruptcy protection, there is no guarantee that we will realize sufficient value from the sale of any of our assets to pay our creditors. Aphton's three primary assets are Insegia, its other intellectual property and know-how and its equity interest in Igeneon. Although we have made significant efforts to license or sell Insegia, we have been unsuccessful to date. As a result, there is no guarantee that we will be able to sell Insegia for any substantial amount of consideration during bankruptcy proceedings. A number of our programs are in early clinical or preclinical development. Accordingly, a potential acquirer of our assets in bankruptcy may assign very little or no value to these assets. In addition, the patents, know-how and other intellectual property of certain of our product-candidates have been in-licensed pursuant to license agreements and certain others are subject to collaboration agreements. Some of these agreements contain bankruptcy provisions whereby the non-bankrupt party is permitted to retain a non-exclusive right or an exclusive royalty-bearing license to all of the patents, know-how and other proprietary information to the product in the event the other party becomes subject to bankruptcy proceedings and/or attempts to reject the agreement in bankruptcy. Therefore, if we were to file for bankruptcy protection, any value associated with these assets may be significantly reduced. If Aphton declares bankruptcy, Igeneon may also be required to declare bankruptcy. Therefore, if Igeneon is required to declare bankruptcy, Aphton's ability to derive any value from Aphton's equity interest in Igeneon would be negatively impacted. Aphton may not recognize any value from its equity interest in Igeneon if Igeneon becomes subject to bankruptcy proceedings. Igeneon does not have any products approved for sale, and therefore, it does not generate any revenue. As a result, and because Aphton is Igeneon's sole shareholder, Aphton is Igeneon's primary source of financing. In the event Aphton is unable to continue financing Igeneon's operations and/or funding its debt obligations and we are unable to find another source of funding for Igeneon's operations and/or debt obligations, Igeneon may become subject to bankruptcy proceedings. Similar to U.S. bankruptcy laws, Austrian bankruptcy laws require creditors to be paid up to the entire amount owed to them out of the available assets of an insolvent company prior to equity holders. Because companies do not typically recognize full value for their assets in bankruptcy and because Igeneon is currently subject to approximately $6.8 million in debt obligations, plus trade payables Aphton may not recognize any value from its equity interest in Igeneon in the event Igeneon becomes subject to bankruptcy proceedings. Furthermore, Igeneon licenses, rather than owns, many of the patents underlying its products, including those patents underlying IGN311 and IGN312. According to the terms of such licenses, if Igeneon files for bankruptcy those licenses may revert to the patent owners without any further consideration to Igeneon. Consequently the amount of assets that will be available to satisfy creditors may be less than those that Igeneon currently reflects on its balance sheet or uses in their operations. 16 We have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which could have a material adverse effect on our business and a negative impact on our stock price. In our preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that existed as of December 31, 2005, which resulted in errors in our 2005 financial statements and required a restatement of our consolidated financial statements for the second and third quarters of 2005. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, which results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. See Managements’ Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of the material weakness. Although we are currently in the process of implementing remediation measures to correct the material weakness, we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts or that the remediation measures will result in our having adequate internal control over financial reporting in the future. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will not in the future identify further deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to adequately remediate our material weakness and maintain an effective system of internal control, our ability to timely and accurately report financial results may continue to be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. Any failure to file periodic reports on a timely basis could have many consequences, including an inability to raise sufficient funds in the capital markets, which is currently our primary source of financing our operations; lack of the timely disclosure to the market of our financial results; actions by the SEC against us for failure to comply with applicable Federal securities laws; and our inability to use certain short form registration statements. In addition, we may incur substantial costs in connection with these remediation measures and the implementation of such measures may distract management from its ordinary business functions. We will need to hire and successfully integrate additional qualified personnel in our accounting, finance, and operations functions to handle the increased complexity of our business related to the acquisition of Igeneon. If we encounter difficulties in attracting or retaining qualified accounting staff, we may not be able to remedy the identified material weakness in our financial close and reporting process. The current employment market for qualified individuals with accounting backgrounds is very competitive, and we may encounter difficulty in identifying, attracting or retaining such individuals. If we are unable to successfully fill our open positions and increase the technical accounting expertise of our accounting function, we may not be able to remedy the identified material weakness. We have a history of negative working capital and operating losses. We expect to continue to incur substantial negative working capital and operating losses in the next several years and we may never be profitable. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception in 1981 and, assuming we are able to obtain sufficient financing to support our operations through 2006 and 2007, expect to continue incurring substantial operating losses for at least the next several years. As discussed above we currently have a working capital deficiency and do not have sufficient current assets to pay our current liabilities. We are currently seeking additional financing. However, even if we do obtain such financing, we expect to continue to incur negative operating cash flows and losses for the foreseeable future as we fund our ongoing clinical trial, apply for regulatory approvals, and continue our research and development efforts. Our losses have adversely impacted, and will continue to adversely impact, our working capital, total assets and stockholders’ equity. Our net loss for the year ended December 31, 2005, was $65.5 million and for the year ended December 31, 2004, was $28.8 million. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $261.2 million. Our ability to achieve profitability depends upon our ability, alone or through relationships with third parties, to develop successfully our technology and potential products, to obtain required regulatory approvals and to manufacture market and sell such products. We may never be profitable. Igeneon's existing debt obligations impose operating restrictions on it, which may prevent it and Aphton from taking certain corporate actions. The terms of the agreements governing Igeneon's outstanding indebtedness impose operating restrictions on Igeneon. These restrictions limit, among other things, Igeneon's ability to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness prior to payment in full of the indebtedness; • sell certain assets; 17 • reduce the scale of its Austrian operations; • terminate certain research and development programs; • redeem, pay cash dividends or make other distributions on its equity investments; and • create liens on its assets. We cannot assure you that these negative covenants will not adversely affect Igeneon's or Aphton's ability to: • finance Igeneon's future operations or capital needs; • pursue available business opportunities; • enter into transactions with potential acquirers; • plan for or react to market conditions; • meet capital needs; and • restrict or reduce Igeneon's activities or business plans. A breach of any of these negative covenants could result in acceleration of a portion or all of Igeneon's outstanding debt. In addition, under the terms of certain of the debt agreements, in the event of a change of control of Igeneon, including a sale of all or substantially all of its capital stock, the acquiring entity may be obligated to immediately pay all or a portion of the outstanding debt. Furthermore, if Aphton transferred to itself or a third party a significant research and development program of Igeneon, any outstanding amount of debt specifically earmarked for that program may become immediately due and payable. We do not currently have any products which are approved for sale and we do not yet generate revenue from the sale of any products. To date, we have not generated any revenues from product sales. All of our potential products are in various stages of product development, and most are still in research or in early development. None of them are approved for sale. All of our potential products will require expensive, extensive and time consuming clinical testing, and some may require additional research and development, prior to commercial use. Accordingly, we cannot plan on deriving revenues from these products for a number of years, if at all. These potential products may not be developed successfully into immunogens that can be administered to humans or may not prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials or cost-effective to manufacture and administer. We may encounter problems in clinical trials that will cause us to delay or suspend a clinical trial. Also, our product-candidates that are currently under development may not be completed successfully or within an acceptable time period, if at all. Further, our product-candidates may not receive regulatory approval. Finally, if any of our product-candidates do receive required regulatory approval, we may not be capable of producing those products in commercial quantities or those products may not be accepted by the marketplace. Without obtaining additional financing or generating revenue we may not have enough liquidity to fund our research and development program. Developing our technology and products requires a commitment of substantial funds to conduct the costly and time-consuming research and clinical trials necessary for such development. On December 31, 2005, we had approximately $4.6 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. This amount of cash and current investments is insufficient to fund our research and development program through the second quarter of 2006. However, we are currently in negotiations with a lead investor regarding a significant financing. Based on our current burn rate for cash used to maintain our research and development programs, we expect that the cash and current investments we currently have available, together with the expected capital infusion, will enable us to maintain our research and development programs at current levels into 2007. However, there can be no guarantee that we will consummate the financing transaction on terms beneficial to us, or at all. 18 Furthermore, we do not anticipate having any of our products ready for commercialization prior to this time. Consequently, even if we consummate the potential financing, but do not obtain additional financing in 2007 we may be required to: • further delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs and some or all of our clinical trials; • obtain funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, potential products or products that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves; • sell our company; • cease operations; or • declare bankruptcy. Our operating costs, particularly future research and development costs, may be significantly higher than we anticipate, and we may need additional capital to fund these costs. It is extremely difficult to estimate the amount of research and development costs that may be required before a product is ready to be commercialized. The amount of research and development costs that we will be required to incur will depend on many other factors, including: • the progress of our research and development programs, preclinical testing and clinical trials; • collaborative arrangements or strategic alliances with other drug companies, including the further development, manufacturing, marketing and sale of certain of our product-candidates and our ability to obtain funds from such strategic alliances or from other sources; • the timing and cost of obtaining regulatory approvals; • the levels of resources that we devote to product development, manufacturing and marketing capabilities; • the cost of establishing, maintaining and enforcing intellectual property rights; and • competing technological and market developments. Our success is heavily dependent on the success of our Phase II/III clinical trial of IGN101 in NSCLC patients. We are currently conducting a Phase II/III clinical trial of IGN101 in 762 NSCLC patients. We have devoted, and expect to continue to devote, significant resources to this trial. We expect final results from this clinical trial in the latter part of 2007. In the event the data from this trial indicates that IGN101 did not meet the study's primary end-point or was not safe or sufficiently well tolerated, it may delay our ability to gain regulatory approval of IGN101 and, accordingly, successfully commercialize IGN101. We currently have only one product-candidate, Insegia, which has completed various Phase II and Phase III clinical trials. Other than IGN101 and Insegia, our other product-candidates are in pre-clinical or early clinical stages. Accordingly, if the Phase II/III clinical trial of IGN101 does not meet its primary endpoint, the number of years before we begin recognizing revenue may be increased significantly. Moreover, because our most recent Phase III clinical trial with Insegia did not meet its primary endpoint, the failure of another late-stage clinical trial could severely limit our ability to access the capital markets for financing. Accordingly, we may have insufficient funds to continue our operations if we experience such failure. Our Phase II/III clinical trial of IGN101 in NSCLC patients may not be an approvable study. Even if IGN101 meets its primary efficacy endpoint in our Phase II/III clinical trial of NSCLC patients, the study may not be deemed approvable in the U.S. or elsewhere. 19 Insegia's failure to meet its primary efficacy endpoint in our completed Phase III combination chemotherapy clinical trial in pancreatic cancer has delayed, and may prohibit our ability to obtain, the approval of Insegia for marketing. Although we have had positive results with Insegia as a monotherapy in a Phase III clinical trial for the treatment of pancreatic cancer, the FDA, unlike other jurisdictions, generally will not approve a monotherapy treatment as a frontline therapy when there is another approved therapy. With respect to pancreatic cancer, gemcitabine is currently the approved therapy. Consequently, as a result of Insegia's failure to meet its primary efficacy endpoint in combination with gemcitabine in our recently completed combination chemotherapy clinical trial (which was completed in 2005), we currently cannot apply for approval of Insegia as a frontline treatment for advanced pancreatic cancer in the U.S. Furthermore based on our current financial condition we are not in the financial position to fund additional clinical trials to support the efficacy of Insegia. We are currently seeking a strategic partner to finance additional clinical trials for Insegia; however, we have not yet been successful. Furthermore, even if we conduct additional trials, there is no guarantee that such clinical trials would be successful, or if successful, that Insegia would be approved for marketing in the U.S. or elsewhere. Our ability to successfully register Insegia may be adversely affected by the percentage of cancer patients that are non-responsive to Insegia. Insegia operates by causing patients to produce antibodies that bind to both gastrin 17 and gly-gastrin 17 and remove them from circulation before they can bind to cancer cells and promote tumor development and proliferation. If a patient does not, after treatment, produce antibodies to Insegia, then Insegia will not have the intended effect on the tumor or the patient’s survival. The results of our clinical studies have shown that approximately 20% to 35% of these cancer patients do not respond to Insegia and as a result do not create antibodies. While we have tried, and will continue to try, to identify an explanation for the non-responsiveness to Insegia of these patients, we may be unable to identify an explanation or develop a solution. This phenomenon tends to make it more difficult to establish, with statistical significance, efficacy, which in turn will make it more difficult to obtain regulatory approvals. It may also impair Insegia's acceptance in the marketplace, should we ultimately obtain regulatory approval. Our ability to successfully commercialize Insegia is dependent on our ability to find a suitable partner that has the financial resources to further support development and commercialization of Insegia. On May 11, 2005, we announced that we would discontinue allocating further financial resources towards actively pursuing the further clinical development of Insegia. Since that time, we have pursued a strategy of licensing Insegia to a third party that has the financial resources necessary to conduct additional clinical studies and other research and development activities that may be necessary to support regulatory approval of Insegia. However, to date, we have not been successful in finding an appropriate partner to support the further development and commercialization of Insegia and there can be no guarantee that we will ever find a party willing to provide the resources necessary to make Insegia a success. If we are not successful in finding a partner that has the financial resources and is fully committed to further developing Insegia, we may never be able to successfully commercialize Insegia in the U.S. or elsewhere and therefore may never generate revenue from this product-candidate. If there is any delay in our ability, or we are unable, to commercialize Insegia in the U.S. or elsewhere there will be a corresponding delay in our ability to generate revenue. Our ability to finalize the expansion of our collaboration with Celltrion into Europe is dependent upon a number of factors. Our ability to finalize the expansion of our collaboration with Celltrion into Europe is dependent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including resolving our liquidity condition. In the event we are unable to raise funds sufficient to continue the development of IGN311 at current levels, independent of Celltrion's potential $5 million cash payment, Celltrion may not agree to consummate the expansion. Furthermore, the consummation of the transaction is subject to the approval of Celltrion's Board of Directors. Consequently, Celltrion's Board of Directors may decide not to pursue the transaction for reasons independent of our ability to raise sufficient capital and further develop IGN311, or for no reason at all. In addition, even if we do consummate the expansion, there is no guarantee that the terms will be as favorable to us as the terms currently contemplated. Because the definitive agreement is subject to the approval of each party's board, the letter of intent is not binding on either party. Accordingly, either party may request a material change to the terms currently contemplated. 20 If we are unable to commence or complete, or experience delays in, any of our present or planned clinical trials, it would delay or prohibit our ability to commercialize our products and therefore our ability to generate product revenues. Clinical trials are very costly and time-consuming. The length of time required to complete a clinical trial depends on several factors, including the criteria for determining which patients are eligible to join the clinical trial, the size of the patient population and the patients’ ability to get to the clinical trial site. Our commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials also may be delayed by many other factors, including the following: • our inability to fund clinical trials; • a sufficient number of patients may not enroll in our clinical trials; • our inability to produce sufficient quantities of the products to complete the trials; • our inability to adequately follow or evaluate patients after treatment with our products; • the products may have significant adverse side effects or other safety issues; • it may take a longer time period than expected to determine whether the products are effective; • patients may die during a clinical trial because their cancer or other disease is too advanced or because they experience unrelated medical problems; • our products fail to perform well during clinical trials; and • government or regulatory delays. If we are unable to commence or complete, or experience delays in, any of our present or planned clinical trials, it would delay or prohibit our ability to commercialize our products and therefore our ability to generate revenues. Our development costs will increase if we experience any delays in our clinical trials or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. Our products under development are based on an approach to disease therapy and prevention that has not yet been approved and may prove to be unsuccessful. Our products under development are based on an approach to disease therapy and prevention that has not yet been approved. Our approach may ultimately prove to be unsuccessful since: • we may not successfully complete our product development efforts; • our products may not prove to be safe and effective; • we may not receive approval from the FDA, or any other applicable regulatory agencies; or • medical centers, hospitals, physicians or patients may not accept our products as readily as current drug therapies or other forms of treatment. Undesirable and unintended side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning any of our products or other products incorporating a similar approach could limit or curtail commercial use of our products and could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain regulatory approvals and to achieve physician and patient acceptance. 21 Our reliance on third parties such as manufacturers and clinical research organizations may result in delays in completing, or a failure to complete, clinical trials if they fail to perform under our agreements with them. As an integral component of our product development, we engage manufacturers and clinical research organizations, or CROs, to manufacture and distribute the product-candidates, to conduct and manage clinical studies and to assist us in guiding products through the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, review and approval process as well as the review and approval process of foreign regulatory agencies. Because we presently engage and intend to continue to engage manufacturers and CROs to help us obtain market approval for our products, many key aspects of this process have been and will be out of our direct control. If the manufacturers and CROs fail to manufacture and distribute the product-candidates and to perform clinical trials in a satisfactory manner, or fail to perform their obligations under our agreements with them, we may face delays in completing our clinical trials, as well as commercialization of our products. In addition, the loss of any of our current contracts or delay in obtaining new contracts with such entities may also delay the completion of our clinical trials and the market approval of our products. Our ability to develop and commercialize our pipeline products is dependent on strategic alliances. As our company has limited personnel and financial resources, our ability to develop and commercialize our pipeline products is dependent on strategic alliances. For example, we have entered into an alliance with Celltrion regarding the development of our Lewis-Y monoclonal antibody, with Xoma and BioWa, respectively, regarding the development of our pre-clinical monoclonal antibodies and with Daiichi to develop, manufacture and commercialize gastrin-related diagnostic kits. In addition, we collaborate with numerous academic institutions with respect to our preclinical and other research and development activities. As a result of our strategic alliances, we will not completely control the nature, timing or cost of bringing our current pipeline products to market. Our partners could choose not to devote resources to these arrangements or, under certain circumstances, may terminate these arrangements early. In addition, our partners, outside of their arrangements with us, may develop technologies or products that are competitive with those that we are developing. From time to time, we may also become involved in disputes with our partners. As a result of these factors, our strategic alliances may not yield successful products or revenues. In addition, we may be unable to enter into new strategic alliances or enter into new strategic alliances on favorable terms. We are dependent on our senior management and scientific staff, and the loss of this personnel or the failure to attract additional qualified personnel could adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. We depend upon the services of our senior management and scientific staff. Our lean infrastructure or personnel could make us vulnerable to disruption if we were unable to retain our current key personnel. We have not insured against the loss, due to death or disability, of any key personnel. The quality and reputation of our scientists and other technical personnel, and their success in performing their responsibilities, are a basis on which we attract potential funding sources and strategic partners. The loss of the services of any key personnel or the failure to recruit necessary additional or replacement personnel could have an adverse affect on our ability to achieve our business objectives. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including from other companies, universities, government entities and public and private research institutions, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. Our common stock currently trades on the pink sheets which provides significantly less liquidity to our stockholders and which may limit our ability to attract new investors. On January 31, 2006, our common stock began trading on the pink sheets. We rely heavily on the capital markets as a source of financing. Because the market for securities traded on the pink sheets is limited, potential investors may voluntarily refrain, or be prohibited, from purchasing shares of our common stock or may agree to purchase our common stock solely on terms that are not beneficial to our long-term operations. If we are unable to obtain funding on terms favorable to us, or at all, we may be required to: • further delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs and some or all of our clinical trials; • obtain funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, potential products or products that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves; • sell our company; • cease operations; or • declare bankruptcy. 22 The price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock, like that of securities of other biotechnology companies, has fluctuated significantly in recent years and is likely to fluctuate in the future. Announcements regarding: • the progress and results of clinical trials, • technological innovations or new commercial products, • strategic partnerships and arrangements or the termination thereof, • public concern as to the safety of drugs and reliability of our testing processes, • developments regarding patents or proprietary rights, • litigation and governmental inquiries, • government regulation, • fluctuations in financial performance from period to period, • the markets or quotation services our stock trades on, • effecting a reverse stock split or other recapitalization of our common stock, • new financings, and • general market conditions may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, price and volume trading volatility in the U.S. stock market can have a substantial effect on the market prices of the securities of many biotechnology companies, frequently for reasons other than the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could contribute to your losing all or part of your investment. Additionally, sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market or in connection with a strategic relationship or acquisition, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and may make it more difficult for us to sell our equity securities in the future at a time and price which we deem appropriate. To the extent the holders of our convertible securities, warrants and options convert or exercise such securities and then sell the shares of our common stock they receive upon conversion or exercise, our stock price may decrease due to the additional amount of shares available in the market. The subsequent sales of these shares could encourage short sales by our stockholders and others which could place further downward pressure on our stock price. We may also issue additional capital stock, convertible securities and warrants to raise capital in the future, issue additional common stock to pay principal and accrued interest on Igeneon's outstanding debt and issue stock options to attract and retain key personnel. 23 The terms of our outstanding Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock provide the holders of the stock with certain preferential rights. Our outstanding Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock has certain rights that may prevent us from raising additional capital, and consummating a strategic transaction and/or may depress the value of our common stock. In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, including certain acquisitions of our capital stock or assets, the holders of the then-outstanding Series A-1 Preferred Stock would receive, prior to holders of our common stock, an amount of consideration equal to the preference value of the shares of Series A-1 Preferred Stock then-outstanding, which is currently $10,000,000. As a result, the holders of our common stock may not realize any value in such circumstances if the aggregate amount of consideration to be distributed to, or received by, our equity holders does not exceed the then preference value of the outstanding Series A-1 Preferred Stock. In addition, the holders of our Series A-1 Preferred Stock have certain voting and consent rights which may limit our ability to raise additional capital if the terms of the transaction would adversely effect certain rights of the holders of the Series A-1 Preferred Stock. The conversion of our convertible securities, the exercise of outstanding warrants and options and other rights to obtain additional shares could dilute the value of the shares currently held by our stockholders. As of April 17, 2006, we had 10,000 shares of Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding, which, as of such date, was convertible into 20,000,000 shares of our common stock. We also have outstanding options and warrants which are exercisable for approximately 6,936,320 shares of our common stock, with a weighted-average exercise price of $7.67. The conversion of our Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock and the exercise of our outstanding warrants and options could result in dilution in the value of the shares of our outstanding common stock and the voting power represented thereby. In addition, the conversion price of our Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock and the exercise price of the warrants issued in connection with our 2003 Senior Convertible Notes may be lowered under certain price adjustment provisions contained therein in the event of a "dilutive issuance," that is, if we issue common stock at any time prior to maturity at a per share price below such conversion or exercise price, either directly or in connection with the issuance of securities that are convertible into, or exercisable for, shares of our common stock. A reduction in the conversion or exercise price may result in the issuance of a significant number of additional shares upon the conversion of our Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock or the exercise of the warrants. Additionally, the warrants issued in connection with our 2003 Senior Convertible Notes do not establish a "floor" that would limit reductions in the exercise price. By corollary, there is no "ceiling" on the number of shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants. The downward adjustment of the exercise price of the warrants could result in further dilution in the value of the shares of our outstanding common stock and the voting power represented thereby. Provisions in our charter documents could prevent or frustrate any attempts to replace our current board of directors by stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without consent of our board of directors. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide for a staggered board and removal of directors only for cause. Accordingly, stockholders may elect only a minority of our board of directors at any annual meeting, which may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in the board of directors. In addition on August 17, 2004, our board of directors adopted a Stockholders' Rights Plan and declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right for each outstanding share of our Common Stock to holders of record on August 31, 2004. The Stockholders Rights Plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our common stock without approval of the current board of directors. In addition, our certificate of incorporation currently permits our board of directors to issue up to 4,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares of stock without any further action by our stockholders. Our issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock and thereby effect a change in the composition of our board of directors. Our certificate of incorporation also provides that our stockholders may not take action by written consent. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws permit only our Chairman, President or a majority of our board of directors to call a special stockholder meeting. These provisions may have the effect of preventing or hindering any attempts by our stockholders to replace our current board of directors. In addition, Delaware law also prohibits a corporation from engaging in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. Also, under applicable Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt anti-takeover measures in the future. 24 Our stockholders have authorized our board of directors to effect a reverse stock split for a ratio of between 1:3 to 1:10, which could significantly dilute your stock. On January 9, 2006, stockholders authorized our Board of Directors to effect a reverse stock split for a ratio of between 1:3 to 1:10. The reverse stock split would not change the number of authorized shares of common stock designated by our Certificate of Incorporation. Currently, we have authorized 100,000,000 shares of common stock. Thus, because the number of issued and outstanding shares of common stock would decrease, the number of shares remaining available for issuance under our Certificate of Incorporation would increase. These additional shares of common stock would be available for issuance from time to time for corporate purposes such as raising additional capital, acquisitions of companies or assets and sales of stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock. If we issue additional shares for any of these purposes, the ownership interest of our current stockholders would be diluted in the same manner as would result in any other share issuance. Furthermore, if our board of directors implements the reverse stock split, there can be no assurance that the reverse stock split will increase the trading price of our common stock as the actual effect of the reverse stock split cannot be predicted. The market price of our common stock may not rise in proportion to the reduction in the number of shares outstanding resulting from the reverse stock split. In addition, the liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected by the reduced number of shares outstanding after the reverse stock split. Although our board of directors believes that a higher trading price may help generate investor interest, there can be no assurance that the reverse stock split will generate a per share trading price that will attract investors. As a result, any decreased liquidity that may result from having fewer shares outstanding may not be offset by increased investor interest. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Igeneon, is subject to Austrian laws. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Igeneon, is located in Vienna, Austria. As a result, its operations are subject to employment, labor, regulatory, contractual, dispute resolution, bankruptcy and insolvency, environmental and other laws of Austria. Because certain Austrian laws may differ significantly from the corresponding laws in the U.S., we may be at a significant disadvantage in the event any dispute were to arise between Igeneon and any regulatory or governmental agency, or any creditor, vendor, employee, consultant or other third party associated with Igeneon. In addition, navigating the laws of a foreign country could become tremendously expensive and result in an unexpected significant cash outlay by us in the future. Because Aphton is Igeneon's primary source of financing, in the event of any dispute or other unexpected event that results in Igeneon's operations becoming prohibitively expensive, we may be required to sell all or substantially of the assets or equity interests of Igeneon or cease Igeneon's operations. Igeneon is subject to a collective bargaining agreement for its employees. Igeneon has assumed the terms of the Collective Bargaining Agreement for White Collar Employees in the Chemical Industry in Austria. The Collective Bargaining Agreement is applicable to all employees of Igeneon with the exception of the managing directors. In addition, the Collective Bargaining Agreement applies Austrian statutory law and contains provisions on issues such as working hours, annual leave, wages, in particular minimum salary, and travel expenses. The requirements included in the Collective Bargaining Agreement provide for, among other things, certain mandatory notice and severance periods for terminated employees. Accordingly, Igeneon may incur significant costs in the event it reduces its workforce or, under certain circumstances, may refrain from reducing its workforce if those costs become prohibitively expensive. This may limit Igeneon's, and, by corollary, Aphton's, ability to reduce its monthly cash burn. 25 Risks Related to Our Industry If we are delayed in obtaining, or fail to obtain, the necessary regulatory approvals for our product-candidates, our ability to generate product revenue will be adversely affected. The clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing of our product-candidates undergo rigorous testing and approval processes and are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S. and other countries, including the FDA in the U.S., the Medicines Control Agency (MCA) in the United Kingdom, and the European Agency for the Approval of Medicinal Products (EMEA) in Europe. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. The time required for FDA approval is uncertain, and typically takes a number of years, depending on the type, complexity and novelty of the product-candidate. Since certain of our product-candidates involve the application of new technologies and are based on a new therapeutic approach, regulatory approvals may be obtained more slowly than for product-candidates produced using more conventional technologies. Additionally, we may encounter delays or disapprovals based upon additional government regulation resulting from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA or equivalent foreign regulatory policy made during the period of product development and regulatory review. To obtain regulatory approvals, we must, among other requirements, complete carefully controlled and well-designed clinical trials demonstrating that a particular product-candidate is safe and effective for the applicable cancer or disease. Several biopharmaceutical companies have failed to obtain regulatory approvals because the applicable regulatory agencies were not satisfied with the structure of the clinical trials or the ability to interpret the data from the trials. We may encounter similar problems. We commenced our completed Phase III clinical trials prior to the FDA implementing its process for special protocol assessments, which is a process designed to provide companies assurance that the FDA will not disapprove an application for approval because of defects in the clinical trial protocol designs. The timing and success of a clinical trial is dependent on many factors, including enrolling sufficient patients in a timely manner, demonstrating the efficacy of a product in a statistically significant manner and avoiding adverse patient reactions. The timing and success of our clinical trials in particular are also dependent on the FDA and other regulatory agencies accepting each trial’s protocol, statistical analysis plan, product characterization tests and clinical data. If the FDA and other regulatory agencies are not satisfied with such matters and/or our current clinical trials yield inconclusive or negative results, we may be required to modify or to expand the scope of our clinical trial studies or conduct additional clinical trial studies to support a filing. In that event, the costs of developing our products would increase and the launch of our product-candidates would be delayed. In addition, we, the FDA or another applicable regulatory agency might delay or halt our clinical trials for various reasons. Approval for any product-candidates we develop may not be granted by applicable regulatory agencies on a timely basis, if at all, or if granted the approval may not cover all the clinical indications for which we are seeking approval or may contain significant limitations in the form of warnings, precautions or contraindications with respect to conditions of use. Any delay in obtaining, or failure to obtain, necessary approvals would adversely affect our ability to generate product revenue. Failure to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements can, among other things, result in fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. In addition, the marketing and manufacturing of drugs and biological products are subject to continuing FDA and other applicable regulatory agency review, and later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, its manufacture or its marketing may result in the FDA or another applicable regulatory agency requiring further clinical research or restrictions on the product or the manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Insegia has been designated as an "Orphan Drug" in the U.S. and various other jurisdictions. This designation has the potential of providing us with marketing exclusivity for specified time periods (seven years in the U.S.), but only with respect to other drugs that are the same as Insegia and only if Insegia is the first drug approved for the designated indication in that jurisdiction. Moreover, we intend to seek, where appropriate, priority review by drug regulatory authorities. We cannot be certain, however, that we will obtain priority review, and even if we do, there can be no assurance that the approval process will not, nonetheless, be lengthy. 26 Our competitors may develop and market products that are safer, more effective, or reach the market sooner than our product-candidates, which would adversely affect the commercial success of any of our products. The treatment of diseases such as those to which our product-candidates are directed is subject to rapid, unpredictable and significant change. Our product-candidates under development seek to address certain cancers and diseases currently addressed, to some extent, by existing or development stage products and technologies of other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. Competition from other biotechnology companies, large pharmaceutical companies and universities and other research institutions is intense and is expected to increase. Many of these companies and institutions have substantially greater resources, research and development staffs and facilities than we do and have substantially greater experience in obtaining regulatory approval, and in manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products. Our competitors may: • develop safer or more effective therapeutic products; • discover technologies that may result in medical breakthroughs which render our products obsolete even before they generate any revenue; • commercialize their products sooner than we do; • implement more effective approaches to marketing and sales; or • establish superior proprietary positions. Our ability to protect our intellectual property rights will be critically important to the success of our business, and we may not be able to protect these rights in the U.S. or abroad. The success of our business will depend in large part on our ability to: • obtain patents, both in the U.S. and in other countries; • maintain our unpatented trade secrets; • operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others; and • prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We attempt to protect our proprietary rights by filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions, and therefore the breadth, validity and enforceability of claims allowed in patents we have obtained cannot be predicted. As of April 17, 2006, we held 18 issued patents in the U.S., 6 regional patents, and 138 patents granted in foreign countries, and have pending patent applications and patent applications in preparation. Our pending applications or patent applications in preparation may or may not be issued as patents in the future. Additionally, our existing patents, patents pending and patents that we may subsequently obtain will not necessarily preclude competitors from developing products that compete with products we have developed and thus would substantially lessen the value of our proprietary rights. We intend to file additional patent applications, when appropriate, relating to our technologies, improvements to our technologies and specific products we may develop. If any of our patents are challenged, invalidated, circumvented or held to be unenforceable, we could lose the protection of rights we believe to be valuable, and our business could be materially and adversely affected. Lastly, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. 27 We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where patent protection is not believed to be appropriate or obtainable. We protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and certain contractors. These agreements may not ultimately provide us with adequate protection in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, and, in addition, the parties may breach such agreements or our agreements may be deemed unenforceable. Our trade secrets may otherwise become known to, or be independently developed by, our competitors. If we infringe patents held by others, we could be required to pay substantial damages and cease development of the infringing product. Our commercial success also will depend, in part, on our not infringing patents issued to others. Our processes and potential products may conflict with patents, which have been or may be granted to competitors, academic institutions or others. As the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries grow and more patents are issued, we are subject to an increased risk that our product-candidates may give rise to a declaration of interference by the Patent and Trademark Office, or to claims of patent infringement by other companies, institutions or individuals. These entities or persons could bring legal proceedings against us seeking substantial damages or seeking to enjoin us from testing, manufacturing or marketing our products. It is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of products. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts, and the interpretation is not always uniform. We cannot assure you that the drug compounds that we have under development do not or will not infringe on the patent or proprietary rights of others. U.S. patent applications filed in recent years are confidential for 18 months, while older patent applications are not published until the patent issues. As a result, there may be patent rights of which we are unaware, and avoiding patent infringement may be difficult. We could incur substantial costs, including diversion of management time, in defending ourselves in litigation. If any of these actions were successful, we may also be required to cease the infringing activity or obtain the requisite licenses or rights to use the technology which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This annual report contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements concern expectations, beliefs, projections, future plans and strategies, anticipated events or trends and similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts. Specifically, this annual report contains forward-looking statements regarding: • our beliefs and expectations regarding the financing currently under negotiation, including our ability to successfully consummate such financing on terms favorable to us and our stockholders and that such financing will be for a significant investment that will support our operations into 2007; • our intention, if we consummate the financing, to fund our operations, support the clinical development of our product candidates and seek additional strategic opportunities; • our beliefs and expectations regarding the design, intended effect, immune response and application as a cancer therapy of our product candidates; • our beliefs regarding the safety and efficacy of our product candidates; • our expectations as to the development and commercialization of our product candidates, including what technology is best suited for the development of our product candidates, our expectations regarding manufacturing, and the receipt and timing of data from clinical trials; • our intention to seek a strategic partner to further develop, finance additional clinical trials for Insegia and/or license Insegia and our belief that we are in an enhanced position to do so because of the termination of our strategic alliance with sanofi pasteur; • our intention to file a conditional approval application for Insegia as a monotherapy in pancreatic cancer patients who are unsuitable for chemotherapy; 28 • our belief that passive gastrin immunotherapy will complement Insegia in a number of ways; • our belief that other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are also developing gastric and pancreatic cancer therapies; • our intention to focus on the further development of IGN 101, including to seek to develop and commercialize IGN101 in North America and Europe as a treatment for NSCLC in the event our Phase II/III clinical trial is positive, and our desire to license IGN101 in markets outside of North America and Europe, especially in Asia; • our belief that other EpCAM targeting immunotherapies are at early preclinical stages of development; • our intention to continue to devote resources to the development of IGN311; • our intention to expand our collaboration with Celltrion into Europe upon securing sufficient financing to maintain our operations into 2007; • our expectation that Celltrion will supply Phase II and Phase III material for IGN311; • our belief that if suppliers were to cease supplying us with any of the components of our product-candidates, we would be able to find other sources for such components and manufacturing; • our intention to continue to pursue and patent new developments with respect to uses, compositions and factors to enhance our positions in the field of various cancers; • our belief that because our common stock trades on the pink sheets, investors may be prohibited, or refrain from, purchasing our common stock on terms advantageous to us, or at all; • our belief that until such time as we can regain listing on Nasdaq we will have difficulty accessing the capital markets; • our belief that the closing of our Woodland and Loughborough facilities will not adversely affect our ability to pursue the development of our gastrin monoclonal antibody, the development of IGN101 or IGN311 or our ability to find an appropriate strategic partner to further develop Insegia; • our expectations as to, and our belief that our profitability depends upon, the receipt and timing of data, regulatory clearance and approvals, including our ability to commence and complete clinical trials in a timely manner; • our expectations regarding future losses and negative operating cash flows for the next several years; and • our expectations regarding the impact of adopting SFAS No. 123(R). 29 These forward-looking statements reflect our current views about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. We caution investors that certain important factors may have affected and could in the future affect our actual results and could cause actual results to differ significantly from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. The most important factors that could prevent us from achieving our goals, and cause the assumptions underlying forward-looking statements and the actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by those forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: • our ability to successfully consummate the financing currently under negotiations on favorable terms to us and our stockholders, or at all, and our ability to use the proceeds from such financing to support our operations into 2007; • our ability to access the capital markets or obtain any future financing and/or reduce our costs and expenses; • our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for, produce in commercial quantities and gain commercial acceptance for, or license our product-candidates; • our ability to identify a strategic partner to further develop, finance additional clinical trials for Insegia and/or license Insegia and/or consummate the terms of such strategic relationship; • our ability to file a conditional approval application for Insegia as a monotherapy; • our ability to maintain and enter into new arrangements and collaborations with third parties for the supply of key materials and/or assistance in the manufacture, market, sale and distribution of our products; • our ability to enforce our patents and proprietary rights; • our level of debt obligations and the impact of restrictions imposed on us by the terms of this debt; • our ability to support our operations with our current level of facilities and staffing as well as attract and retain highly qualified scientists and other technical personnel as necessary; • the ability of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to develop competing cancer therapies; • our ability to determine the impact of adopting certain accounting pronouncements; and • changes in healthcare reform. Availability of Reports and Other Information Our corporate website is www.aphton.com. We make available, free of charge, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A and amendments to those materials filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 on our website under "Investor Relations - For SEC filings click here" as soon as reasonably practicable after we file electronically such material with, or furnish it to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"). Information on our website is not a part of this document. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 