ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. The Company’s financial results depend substantially on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Because the Company’s interest-bearing liabilities generally re-price or mature more quickly than its interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would decrease the Company’s net interest income. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of the Company’s interest-earning assets, most notably its available for sale investment securities. The value of these investment securities generally fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2006, the Company’s available for sale investment securities totaled $233.9 million. Unrealized losses on the available for sale securities, net of tax, amounted to $2.4 million at December 31, 2006 and are reported as a separate component of shareholders' equity. Decreases in the fair value of the available for sale securities would have an adverse effect on shareholders' equity of the Company. Changes in interest rates may also affect the average life of the Company’s loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, the Company could be subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that it was unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Concentration of the Company’s loans in Western New York may increase risk. The Company’s success may be adversely affected by deterioration in the general economic conditions of Western New York where the Company’s business is concentrated. Deterioration of economic conditions in Western New York could have a significant impact on the ability of the Company’s customers to repay loans and could adversely impact the value of collateral securing the Company’s loans. Deterioration in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond the Company’s control could negatively affect its financial results. Growth of the Company’s commercial real estate loans and commercial and industrial loans could increase the Company’s exposure to credit risks. The Company’s commercial real estate loans and commercial and industrial loans have grown significantly over the past few years. The Company plans to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans. These loans generally expose the Company to a greater risk of non-payment and loss than residential real estate loans because repayment of these loans often depends on the successful operations and income stream of the borrower’s business. Additionally, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrower or group of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans. Some of the Company’s borrowers have more than one commercial loan outstanding with the Company. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship could expose the Company to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development relating to a residential real estate loan. The Company’s allowances for loan losses may increase resulting in a decrease in earnings. The Company’s customers may not repay their loans according to contractual terms and the collateral securing the loans may be insufficient to satisfy shortfalls in loan payments. Hence, the Company may experience significant loan losses which would have a adverse effect on operating results. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of its loans, including the creditworthiness of its borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, the Company relies on loan quality reviews, past experience and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If the Company’s assumptions prove to be incorrect, its allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses in its loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Additions to the loan loss allowance would generally result in a decrease in earnings. The Company is currently emphasizing growth of commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans. As these loans increase additional or increased provisions for loans losses may be necessary and would decrease earnings. Bank regulators periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require the Company to increase its provisions for loan losses or loan charge-offs. Increases in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. - 14 - Expansion of the Company’s branch network may adversely affect its financial results. During the past two years the Company has increased its retail branch network from seven branches to fourteen branches and the Company intends to open four new branches in 2007. The Company can not assure that its branch expansion strategy will be accretive to earnings or that it will be accretive to earnings within a reasonable period of time. Numerous factors contribute to the performance of a new branch, such as a suitable location, qualified personnel and an effective marketing strategy. Additionally, it takes time for a new branch to gather sufficient loans and deposits to generate income sufficient to cover its operating expenses. Strong competition may limit the Company’s growth and profitability. The Company faces significant competition in making loans and gathering deposits in its market areas. The Company competes with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Company and may offer certain services that the Company does not or cannot provide. The Company’s profitability depends upon its ability to successfully compete in its market area. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Company is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the New York State Banking Department. These regulators govern the activities in which the Company may engage primarily for the protection of depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank and the adequacy of a bank's allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on the Company and its operations. The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Because the Company’s business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and applicable regulations are subject to regular modification and change. Proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules, or regulations, may be adopted in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or more costly or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or prospects. The value of the Company’s net operating loss carryforwards and other tax benefits may be subject to challenge by the IRS or may not ultimately be realized. The Company’s net operating loss carryforwards and other tax benefits may provide significant future tax savings to the Company. The Company’s use of these tax benefits may depend on a number of factors including the ability of the Company to generate significant taxable income; the absence of a future ownership change of the Company that could limit or eliminate the tax benefits; the acceptance by the taxing authorities of the positions taken on the Company’s tax returns as to the amount and timing of its income and expenses; and future changes in laws or regulations relating to the use of net operating loss carryforwards. In addition, the Company may be required to recognize additional valuation allowances on its deferred tax assets if it cannot project sufficient taxable income within the expiration periods of the net operating loss carryforwards. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. - 15 - ITEM 