Item 1A. Risk FactorsImportant risk factors that could cause results or events to differ from current expectations are described below. These factors are not intended to be an all-encompassing list of risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance, development and results of the Company's business.Both pawn and other consumer loan products continue to come under increased regulation and scrutiny. If changes in regulations affecting the Company's pawn, credit services and consumer loan businesses create increased restrictions, or have the effect of prohibiting loans in the countries and states where the Company offers these products, such regulations could materially impair or reduce the Company's pawn, credit services and consumer loan businesses and limit its expansion into new markets. The Company's products and services are subject to extensive regulation and supervision under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations in both the United States and Mexico. The Company faces the risk that restrictions or limitations on loan products, loan amounts, loan yields and customer acceptance of loan products resulting from the enactment, change, or interpretation of laws and regulations in the United States or Mexico could have a negative effect on the Company's business activities. Both pawn and consumer loans have come under increased scrutiny and increasingly restrictive regulation in recent years. Other enacted or recently proposed regulatory activity may limit the number of loans that customers may receive or have outstanding, and regulations adopted by some states require that all borrowers of certain loan products be listed on a database, limit the yield on pawn or consumer loans and limit the number of such loans borrowers may have outstanding. Certain consumer advocacy groups and federal and state legislators have also asserted that laws and regulations should be tightened so as to severely limit, if not eliminate, the availability of pawn loans, consumer loans and credit services products to consumers, despite the significant demand for such products. In Mexico, similar restrictions and regulations affecting the pawn and consumer loan industries, including licensing restrictions, disclosure requirements and limits on interest rates and/or loan service fees, have been and continue to be proposed from time to time. Adoption of such federal, state or local regulation or legislation in the United States and Mexico could restrict, or even eliminate, the availability of specialty consumer finance products at some or all of the Company's locations, which would adversely affect the Company's operations and financial condition. A more detailed discussion of the regulatory environment and current developments and risks to the Company is provided in Part I, Item 1.Media reports and public perception of consumer loans, such as payday advances or pawn loans, as being predatory or abusive could materially adversely affect the Company's consumer loan, credit services and pawn businesses. In recent years, consumer advocacy groups and some media reports, in both the United States and Mexico, have advocated governmental action to prohibit or place severe restrictions on consumer loans. The consumer advocacy groups and media reports generally focus on the cost to a consumer for this type of loan, which is higher than the interest typically charged by banks to consumers with better credit histories. Though the consumer advocacy groups and media reports do not discuss the lack of viable alternatives for the Company's customers' borrowing needs, they do typically characterize pawn and/or consumer loans as predatory or abusive despite the large customer demand for payday advances or pawn loans. If the negative characterization of these types of loans becomes increasingly accepted by consumers, demand for consumer loan products could significantly decrease, which could materially affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, if the negative characterization of these types of loans becomes increasingly accepted by legislators and regulators, the Company could become subject to more restrictive laws and regulations that could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that was created by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 has announced the commencement of regulatory, supervisory and enforcement powers over non-bank providers of consumer credit such as the Company. The U.S. Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), and Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”). The CFPB became operational in certain respects in July 2011, although it did not have the ability to oversee and exercise its full authority over non-depository institutions and implement related rules until a permanent director was installed. On January 4, 2012, President Obama appointed a Director of the CFPB in a recess appointment bypassing Senate confirmation. Although there remain doubts about the legality of this appointment and the appointment may be subject to legal challenge, the CFPB has announced that it will now exercise full regulatory, supervisory and enforcement powers over certain non-bank providers of consumer financial products and services such as the Company.The CFPB's powers include explicit supervisory authority to examine and require registration of such providers of consumer financial products and services, including providers of consumer loans such as the Company; the authority to adopt rules describing specified acts and practices as being “unfair,” “deceptive” or “abusive,” and hence unlawful; and the authority to impose recordkeeping obligations. The Company does not currently know the nature and extent of the rules the CFPB will consider for consumer loan products and services such as those offered by the Company or the timeframe in which the CFPB may consider such rules.16Table of Contents The CFPB has indicated that it intends to systematically gather data to obtain a complete picture of the consumer loan market and its impact on consumers, and the CFPB has also released its Short-Term, Small-Dollar Lending Procedures, which is the field guide CFPB examiners will use when examining small-dollar lenders such as the Company. The CFPB's examination authority permits CFPB examiners to inspect the Company's books and records and ask questions about its business, and the examination procedures include specific modules for examining marketing activities, loan application and origination activities, payment processing activities and sustained use by consumers, collections, defaults and consumer reporting and third-party relationships. Although the CFPB does not have the authority to regulate fees or interest rates, it is possible that at some time in the future the CFPB could propose and adopt rules making short-term consumer lending products and services materially less profitable or even impractical to offer, which could force the Company to modify or terminate certain of its product offerings in the United States. The CFPB could also adopt rules imposing new and potentially burdensome requirements and limitations with respect to other consumer loan products and services. Any such rules could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition or could make the continuance of all or part of the Company's current U.S. business impractical or unprofitable.In addition to the Dodd-Frank Act's grant of regulatory and supervisory powers to the CFPB, the Dodd-Frank Act gives the CFPB authority to pursue administrative proceedings or litigation for violations of federal consumer financial laws (including the CFPB's own rules). In these proceedings, the CFPB can obtain cease and desist orders (which can include orders for restitution or rescission of contracts, as well as other kinds of affirmative relief) and monetary penalties ranging from $5,000 per day for ordinary violations of federal consumer financial laws to $25,000 per day for reckless violations and $1 million per day for knowing violations. Also, where a company has violated Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act or CFPB regulations implemented under Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Dodd-Frank Act empowers state attorneys general and state regulators to bring civil actions for the kind of cease and desist orders available to the CFPB. If the CFPB or one or more state officials believe that the Company has violated any of the applicable laws or regulations, they could exercise their enforcement powers in ways that could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its business.Adverse gold market fluctuations could negatively affect the Company's profits. Approximately 43% of the Company's pawn loans are collateralized with gold jewelry and the Company sells significant quantities of gold acquired through collateral forfeitures or direct purchases from customers. In addition to normal market risks associated with accepting gold as loan collateral and buying and selling gold, the global economic crisis has increased the volatility of commodity markets such as those for gold and other precious metals. A significant and sustained decline in gold and/or precious metal prices could result in decreased merchandise sales and related margins, decreased inventory valuations and sub-standard collateralization of outstanding pawn loans. In addition, a significant decline in market prices could result in a lower balance of pawn loans outstanding for the Company, as customers would receive lower loan amounts for individual pieces of jewelry.Risks and uncertainties related to the Company's foreign operations could negatively impact the Company's operating results. The Company currently has approximately 553 store locations in Mexico, a country in which there are potential risks related to geo-political events, political instability, corruption, economic volatility, drug cartel and gang-related violence, social and ethnic unrest, enforcement of property rights, governmental regulations, public safety and security among others. As in many developing markets, there are also uncertainties as to how both local law and U.S. federal law is applied, including areas most relevant to commercial transactions and foreign investment. As a result, actions or events could occur in Mexico, which are beyond the Company's control, which could restrict or eliminate the Company's ability to operate some or all of its locations in Mexico or significantly reduce customer traffic, product demand and the expected profitability of such operations.The Company's allowance for credit losses for credit services and consumer loans may not be sufficient to cover actual credit losses which could adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. Under the CSO Program, the Company issues the Independent Lender a letter of credit to guarantee the repayment of the customer's extension of credit. The Company is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken by issuing the letters of credit. The Company records the estimated fair value of the liability under the letters of credit in accrued liabilities. The Company also has customer loans arising from its consumer loan operations. The Company has to recognize losses resulting from the inability of credit services and consumer loan customers and/or borrowers to repay such receivables or loans. The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses in an attempt to cover credit losses inherent in its consumer loan operations. Additional credit losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than the Company has experienced to date. The allowance for credit losses is based primarily upon historical credit loss experience, with consideration given to delinquency levels, collateral values, economic conditions, and underwriting and collection practices. This evaluation is inherently subjective, as it requires estimates of material factors that may be susceptible to significant change. If the Company's assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect, its current allowance may not be sufficient and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in its loan portfolio.17Table of Contents The failure of third-parties who provide products, services or support to the Company to maintain their products, services or support could disrupt Company operations or result in a loss of revenue. The Company's credit services operations depend, in part, on the willingness and ability of an unaffiliated third-party lender to make extensions of credit to its customers. The loss of the relationship with this lender, and an inability to replace it with a new lender or lenders, or the failure of the lender to fund new extensions of credit and to maintain volumes, quality and consistency in its loan programs could cause the Company to lose customers and substantially decrease the revenue and earnings of the Company's credit services business. In addition, the Company's lending and retail operations are dependent upon the Company's ability to maintain retail banking relationships with commercial banks. The Company also relies significantly on outside vendors to provide services such as utilities, store security, armored transport, data and voice networks, and other information technology products and services.The Company's growth is subject to external factors and other circumstances over which the Company has limited control or that are beyond the Company's control. These factors and circumstances could adversely affect the Company's ability to grow through the opening of new store locations. The success of this strategy is subject to numerous external factors, such as the availability of sites with favorable customer demographics, limited competition, acceptable regulatory restrictions and suitable lease terms, the Company's ability to attract, train and retain qualified unit associates and management personnel and the ability to obtain required government permits and licenses. Some of these factors are beyond the Company's control. The failure to execute this expansion strategy would adversely affect the Company's ability to expand its business and could materially adversely affect its business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.Increased competition from banks, savings and loans, internet-based lenders, other short-term consumer lenders, and other entities offering similar financial services, as well as retail businesses that offer products and services offered by the Company, could adversely affect the Company's results of operations. The Company has many competitors to its core lending and merchandise sales operations. The Company's principal competitors are other pawnshops, consumer loan companies, internet-based lenders, consumer finance companies, rent-to-own stores, retail finance programs and other financial institutions that serve the Company's primary customer base. Many other financial institutions or other businesses that do not now offer products or services directed toward the Company's traditional customer base, many of whom may be much larger than the Company, could begin doing so. Significant increases in the number and size of competitors for the Company's business could result in a decrease in the number of consumer loans or pawn loans that the Company writes, resulting in lower levels of revenue and earnings in these categories. Furthermore, the Company has many competitors to its retail operations, such as retailers of new merchandise, retailers of pre-owned merchandise, other pawnshops, thrift shops, online retailers, online classified advertising sites and online auction sites. Increased competition or aggressive marketing and pricing practices by these competitors could result in decreased revenue, margins and turnover rates in the Company's retail operations. In Mexico, the Company competes directly with certain pawn stores owned by government sponsored non-profit foundations. The government could take actions that would harm the Company's ability to compete in the Mexico market. In addition, the Company's two largest U.S.-based pawn competitors, both of whom are larger than the Company, have launched significant acquisition and expansion programs in Mexico.A sustained deterioration of economic conditions or an economic crisis could reduce demand or profitability for the Company's products and services and increase credit losses which would result in reduced earnings. In addition, business and financial results may be adversely impacted by unfavorable economic conditions associated with a global or regional economic crisis which include adverse changes in interest or tax rates, effects of government initiatives to manage economic conditions and increased volatility of commodity markets and foreign currency exchange rates. Specifically, a rapid or sustained deterioration in the economy could cause deterioration in the performance of the Company's loan portfolios and in consumer or market demand for pre-owned merchandise or gold such as that sold in the Company's pawnshops. While the credit risk for much of the Company's pawn lending is mitigated by the collateralized nature of pawn lending, a sustained deterioration in the economy could reduce the demand and resale value of pre-owned merchandise and reduce the amount that the Company could effectively lend on an item of collateral. Such reductions could adversely affect pawn loan balances, pawn loan redemption rates, inventory balances, inventory mixes, sales volumes and gross profit margins. An economic slowdown could result in a decrease in loan demand and an increase in loan defaults on consumer loan and credit services products. During such a slowdown, the Company could be required to tighten its underwriting standards, which would reduce consumer loan balances and related revenue and credit services fees, and could face more difficulty in collecting defaulted consumer loans, which could lead to an increase in loan losses. As consumer loans and credit services customers generally have to be employed to qualify for a loan or extension of credit, an increase in the unemployment rate would reduce the number of potential customers.The Company's financial position and results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates in Mexico. During the global economic crisis of 2008 and the continued aftermath, the volatility of the exchange rate of the Mexican peso to the U.S. dollar has increased significantly. The Company derives significant revenue, earnings and cash flow from operations in Mexico. The Company's exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations results primarily from the translation exposure associated with the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as from transaction exposure associated with transactions in currencies other than an entity's functional currency. While the Consolidated Financial Statements 18Table of Contents are reported in U.S. dollars, the financial statements of the Company's Mexican subsidiaries are prepared using the Mexican peso as the functional currency and translated into U.S. dollars by applying appropriate exchange rates. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar relative to the Mexican peso could cause significant fluctuations in the Company's results. In addition, while expenses with respect to foreign operations are generally denominated in the same currency as corresponding sales, the Company has transaction exposure to the extent receipts and expenditures are not offsetting in the subsidiary's functional currency. In addition, changes in currency rates could negatively affect customer demand, especially in Mexico and in U.S. stores located along the Mexican border. In addition, the Company's Mexican-based subsidiaries experience foreign currency exposure to the extent monetary assets and liabilities, including debt, are in U.S. dollars, rather than the subsidiaries' functional currency, which is the Mexican peso. Moreover, the costs of doing business abroad may increase as a result of adverse exchange rate fluctuations.A decreased demand for the Company's products and services and failure of the Company to adapt to such decreases could adversely affect results. Although the Company's products and services are a staple of its customer base, the demand for a particular product or service may decrease due to a variety of factors, such as the availability of competing products, changes in customers' financial conditions, or regulatory restrictions that increase or reduce customer access to particular products. Should the Company fail to adapt to a significant change in its customers' demand for, or regulatory access to, its products, the Company's revenue could decrease significantly. Even if the Company does make adaptations, customers may resist or may reject products whose adaptations make them less attractive or less available. In any event, the effect of any product change on the results of the Company's business may not be fully ascertainable until the change has been in effect for some time. In particular, the Company has changed, and will continue to change, some of the consumer loan products and services it offers due to regulatory developments. Demand may also fluctuate by geographic region. The current geographic concentration of the Company's stores creates exposure to local economies and regional downturns. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had store concentration in Mexico, Texas, Colorado and Maryland. As a result, the business is currently more susceptible to regional conditions than the operations of more geographically diversified competitors, and the Company is vulnerable to economic downturns in those regions. Any unforeseen events or circumstances that negatively affect these areas could materially adversely affect the Company's revenues and profitability.Changes in the capital markets or the Company's financial condition could reduce available capital. The Company currently has $97,500,000 outstanding on its bank line of credit, which matures in February 2015. The Company has, in the past, accessed the debt capital markets to refinance existing debt obligations and to obtain capital to finance growth. Efficient access to these markets is critical to the Company's ongoing financial success; however, the Company's future access to the debt capital markets could become restricted due to a variety of factors, including a deterioration of the Company's earnings, cash flows, balance sheet quality, regulatory restrictions or overall business or industry prospects, a significant deterioration in the state of the capital markets or a negative bias toward the Company's industry by market participants. Inability to access the credit markets on acceptable terms, if at all, would have a materially adverse effect on the Company's financial condition.The terms of the Company's revolving bank line of credit impose financial and operating restrictions on the Company. The Company's bank line of credit contains a number of customary negative covenants and requires the Company to maintain certain financial ratios. The covenants and restrictions contained in the credit facility could limit the Company's ability to fund future operations, make capital expenditures, make acquisitions, or other investments in the future. Any failure to comply with any of these financial and other affirmative and negative covenants would constitute an event of default under our credit facility, entitling the lenders to, among other things, terminate future credit availability, increase the interest rate on outstanding debt, and/or accelerate the maturity of outstanding obligations under the credit facility. Any such default could materially adversely affect the Company's business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could impair the Company's ability to continue current operations.Failure to satisfy the Company's debt obligations could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. At December 31, 2012, the Company had $102,500,000 outstanding on its bank line of credit. At December 31, 2012, the Company had notes payable to individuals arising from a 16-store pawn acquisition in September 2012, with a remaining balance of $8,114,000 bearing interest at 4.0% per annum. Additionally, as of December 31, 2012, the Company had a note payable arising from a 29-store pawn acquisition in January 2012, with a remaining balance of $3,449,000 bearing interest at 3.0% per annum. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on these debt obligations or if it is in breach of the covenants contained in the debt agreements, it would default under the terms of the applicable agreement or indenture. Any such default could result in an acceleration of the repayment obligations to such lenders as well as the lenders under any of its other debt agreements under applicable cross default provisions. Any such default could materially adversely affect the Company's business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could impair the Company's ability to continue current operations.19Table of Contents The Company's business depends on the uninterrupted operation of the Company's facilities, systems and business functions, including its information technology and other business systems. The Company's business depends highly upon its employees' ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions such as internet support, call centers, and processing and making cash advances. Additionally, the Company's storefront operations depend on the efficiency and reliability of the Company's point-of-sale system. A shut-down of or inability to access the facilities in which the Company's online operations, storefront point-of-sale system and other technology infrastructure are based, such as a power outage, a security breach, a failure of one or more of its information technology, telecommunications or other systems, or sustained or repeated disruptions of such systems could significantly impair its ability to perform such functions on a timely basis and could result in a deterioration of the Company's ability to perform efficient storefront lending and merchandise disposition activities, provide customer service, perform collections activities, or perform other necessary business functions.Security breaches, cyber attacks or fraudulent activity could result in damage to the Company's operations or lead to reputational damage. A security breach of the Company's computer systems could also interrupt or damage its operations or harm its reputation. In addition, the Company could be subject to liability if confidential customer information is misappropriated from its computer systems. Despite the implementation of significant security measures, these systems may still be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. Any compromise of security could deter people from entering into transactions that involve transmitting confidential information to the Company's systems, which could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's business.The Company depends on cash management services from banks to operate its business. If banks decide to stop providing cash management services to the Company, it could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company maintains deposit accounts with third-party banks, which also provide treasury management services. Certain banks have publicly stated that they will no longer maintain bank accounts for certain companies in money services businesses and other cash intensive industries due to reputational risks and increased compliance costs. While none of the Company's primary depository banks have requested that the Company close its bank accounts or placed other restrictions on how the Company uses their services, if any of its larger current or future depository banks were to take such actions, the Company could face higher costs of managing its cash and limitations on its ability to grow its business, both of which could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition.The Company is subject to goodwill impairment risk. At December 31, 2012, the Company had goodwill on its consolidated balance sheet, all of which represents assets capitalized in connection with the Company's acquisitions and business combinations. Accounting for goodwill requires significant management estimates and judgment. Management performs periodic reviews of the carrying values of goodwill to determine whether events and circumstances indicate that an impairment in value may have occurred. A variety of factors could cause the carrying value of goodwill to become impaired. Should a review indicate impairment, a write-down of the carrying value of goodwill would occur, resulting in a non-cash charge, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.The Company depends on its senior management and may not be able to retain those employees or recruit additional qualified personnel. The Company depends on its senior management. The loss of services of any of the members of the Company's senior management could adversely affect the Company's business until a suitable replacement can be found. There may be a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions, and the Company cannot ensure that it would be able to identify or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms.The inability to successfully integrate acquisitions could adversely affect results. The Company has historically grown, in part, through strategic acquisitions, including the acquisition of 75 stores during 2012. The Company's strategy is to continue to pursue attractive acquisition opportunities if and when they become available. The success of an acquisition is subject to numerous internal and external factors, such as the ability to consolidate data processing and accounting functions, the management of additional sales, administrative, operations and management personnel, overall management of a larger organization, competitive market forces, and general economic factors. Failure to successfully integrate an acquisition would have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, any acquisition has the risk that the Company may not realize a return on the acquisition or the Company's investment.Current and future litigation or regulatory proceedings could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The Company has been subject to lawsuits that could cause it to incur substantial expenditures and generate adverse publicity. The Company is also likely to be subject to further litigation in the future (including class actions). The consequences of an adverse ruling in any current or future litigation could cause the Company to have to refund fees and/or interest collected, refund the principal amount of advances, pay treble or other multiple damages, pay monetary penalties and/or modify or terminate the Company's operations in particular states. Defense of any lawsuit, even if successful, could require substantial time and attention of the Company's management and could require the expenditure of 20Table of Contents significant amounts for legal fees and other related costs. Settlement of lawsuits may also result in significant payments and modifications to the Company's operations. The Company is also subject to regulatory proceedings, and the Company could suffer losses from interpretations of state laws in those regulatory proceedings, even if it is not a party to those proceedings. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could impair the Company's ability to continue current operations.Adverse real estate market fluctuations and/or the inability to renew and extend store operating leases could affect the Company's profits. The Company leases most of its locations. A significant rise in real estate prices or real property taxes could result in an increase in store lease costs as the Company opens new locations and renews leases for existing locations, thereby negatively impacting the Company's results of operations. The Company also holds certain developed and undeveloped real estate which could be impacted by adverse market fluctuations. In addition, the inability of the Company to renew, extend or replace expiring store leases could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.Inclement weather or natural disasters can adversely impact the Company's operating results. The occurrence of weather events such as rain, cold weather, snow, wind, storms, hurricanes, or other natural disasters adversely affecting consumer traffic and collection activities at the Company's stores could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. In addition, the Company may incur property, casualty or other losses not covered by insurance. The Company maintains a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty and other risks. The types and amounts of insurance that the Company obtains vary from time to time, depending on availability, cost and management's decisions with respect to risk retention. The policies are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in the Company's retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. Losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and may increase the Company's expenses, which could harm the Company's results of operations and financial condition.The Company's business may be impacted by the outbreak of certain public health issues, including epidemics, pandemics and other contagious diseases. In the event of such an outbreak, regulatory and/or public health officials could restrict store operating hours, product offerings and/or the number of customers allowed in a store at one time, which could adversely affect the Company's financial results. In addition, to the extent that the Company's customers become infected by such diseases, or feel uncomfortable visiting public locations due to a perceived risk of exposure to contagious diseases, the Company could experience a reduction in customer traffic, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.If the Company is unable to protect its intellectual property rights, its ability to compete could be negatively impacted. The success of the Company's business depends to a certain extent upon the value associated with its intellectual property rights. The Company owns the trademark “First Cash Financial Services,” which is registered in the United States. The Company has also developed a proprietary point of sale system for use in its stores. The Company relies on a combination of copyright, trade secret, trademark, and other rights, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect its proprietary technology, processes and other intellectual property. While the Company intends to vigorously protect its trademarks against infringement, it may not be successful. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect its intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. The costs required to protect the Company's intellectual property rights and trademarks could be substantial.Other risk factors are discussed under “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”Other risks that are indicated in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission may apply as well. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.