Item 1A. Risk Factors Important risk factors that could cause results or events to differ from current expectations are described below. These factors are not intended to be an all-encompassing list of risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance, development and results of the Company's business. Both pawn and other short-term consumer loan products have come under increased regulation and scrutiny. If changes in regulations affecting the Company's pawn, credit services and short-term loan businesses create increased restrictions, or have the effect of prohibiting loans in the countries and states where the Company offers these products, such regulations could materially impair or reduce the Company's pawn, credit services and short-term loan businesses and limit its expansion into new markets. The Company's products and services are subject to extensive regulation and supervision under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations in both the United States and Mexico. The Company faces the risk that restrictions or limitations on loan products, loan amounts, loan yields and customer acceptance of loan products resulting from the enactment, change, or interpretation of laws and regulations in the United States or Mexico could have a negative effect on the Company's business activities. Both pawn and short-term consumer loans, including payday advances, have come under increased scrutiny and increasingly restrictive regulation in recent years. Other enacted or recently proposed regulatory activity may limit the number of loans that customers may receive or have outstanding and regulations adopted by some states require that all borrowers of certain loan products be listed on a database, limit the yield on pawn or short-term loans and limit the number of such loans borrowers may have outstanding. Certain consumer advocacy groups and federal and state legislators have also asserted that laws and regulations should be tightened so as to severely limit, if not eliminate, the availability of the short-term loan and credit services products to consumers, despite the significant demand for such products. In Mexico, similar restrictions and regulations affecting the pawn and consumer loan industries, including licensing restrictions, disclosure requirements and limi ts on interest rates and/or loan service fees, have been and continue to be proposed from time to time. Adoption of such federal, state or local regulation or legislation in the United States and Mexico could restrict, or even eliminate, the availability of specialty consumer finance products at some or all of the Company's locations, which would adversely affect the Company's operations and financial condition. A more detailed discussion of the regulatory environment and current developments and risks to the Company is provided in Part I, Item 1. Media reports and public perception of short-term consumer loans, such as payday advances or pawn loans, as being predatory or abusive could materially adversely affect the Company's short-term loan, credit services and pawn businesses. In recent years, consumer advocacy groups and some media reports, in both the United States and Mexico, have advocated governmental action to prohibit or place severe restrictions on short-term consumer loans. The consumer advocacy groups and media reports generally focus on the cost to a consumer for this type of loan, which is higher than the interest typically charged by banks to consumers with better credit histories. Though the consumer advocacy groups and media reports do not discuss the lack of viable alternatives for the Company's customers' borrowing needs, they do typically characterize these short-term consumer loans as predatory or abusive despite the large customer demand for these loans. If the negative characterization of these types of loans becomes increasingly accepted by consumers, demand for short-term loan products could significantly decrease, which could materially affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, if the negative characterization of these types of loans becomes increasingly accepted by legislators and regulators, the Company could become subject to more restrictive laws and regulations that could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Adverse gold market fluctuations could negatively affect the Company's profits. A significant portion of the Company's pawn loans are collateralized with gold jewelry and the Company sells significant quantities of gold acquired through collateral forfeitures or direct purchases from customers. In addition to normal market risks associated with accepting gold as loan collateral and buying and selling gold, the global economic crisis has increased the volatility of commodity markets such as gold. A significant decline in gold prices could result in decreased merchandise sales and related margins, decreased inventory valuations and sub-standard collateralization of outstanding pawn loans. In addition, a significant decline in gold prices could result in a lower balance of pawn loans outstanding for the Company, as customers would receive lower loan amounts for individual pieces of jewelry. Risks and uncertainties related to the Company's foreign operations could negatively impact the Company's operating results. The Company has over 330 store locations in Mexico, a country in which there are potential risks related to geo-political events, political instability, corruption, economic volatility, drug cartel and gang-related violence, social and ethnic unrest, enforcement of property rights, governmental regulations, public safety and security among others. As in many developing markets, there are also uncertainties in how local law is applied, including areas most relevant to commercial transactions and foreign investment. As a result, actions or events could occur in Mexico, which are beyond the Company's control, which could restrict or eliminate the Company's ability to operate some or all of its locations in Mexico or significantly reduce customer traffic, product demand and the expected profitability of such operations. The Company's allowance for credit losses for credit services and short-term loans may not be sufficient to cover actual credit losses which could adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. Under the CSO program, the Company issues the Independent Lender a letter of credit to guarantee the repayment of the customer's loan. The Company is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken by issuing the letters of credit. The Company records the estimated fair value of the liability under the letters of credit in accrued liabilities. The Company also has customer receivables arising from its short-term loan operations. The Company has to recognize losses resulting from the inability of credit services and short-term loan customers and/or borrowers to repay such receivables or loans and the insufficient realizable value of the collateral securing the loans. The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses in an attempt to co ver credit losses inherent in its short-term loan operations. Additional credit losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than the Company has experienced to date. The allowance for credit losses is based primarily upon historical credit loss experience, with consideration given to delinquency levels, collateral values, economic conditions and underwriting and collection practices. This evaluation is inherently subjective, as it requires estimates of material factors that may be susceptible to significant change. If the Company's assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect, its current allowance may not be sufficient and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in its loan portfolio. The failure of third-parties who provide products, services or support to the Company to maintain their products, services or support could disrupt Company operations or result in a loss of revenue. The Company's credit services operations depend in part on the willingness and ability of an unaffiliated third-party lender to make loans to its customers. The loss of the relationship with this lender, and an inability to replace it with a new lender or lenders, or the failure of the lender to fund new loans and to maintain volumes, quality and consistency in its loan programs could cause the Company to lose customers and substantially decrease the revenue and earnings of the Company's credit services business. In addition, the Company's lending and retail operations are dependent upon the Company's ability to maintain retail banking relationships with commercial banks. The Company also relies significantly on outside vendors to provide services such as utilities, store security, armored transport, data and voice networks and other information technology products and services. The Company's growth is subject to external factors and other circumstances over which the Company has limited control or that are beyond the Company's control. These factors and circumstances could adversely affect the Company's ability to grow through the opening of new store locations. The success of this strategy is subject to numerous external factors, such as the availability of sites with favorable customer demographics, limited competition, acceptable regulatory restrictions and suitable lease terms, the Company's ability to attract, train and retain qualified unit associates and management personnel and the ability to obtain required government permits and licenses. Some of these factors are beyond the Company's control. The failure to execute this expansion strategy would adversely affect the Company's ability to expand its business and could materially adversely affect its business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Increased competition from banks, savings and loans, internet-based lenders, other short-term consumer lenders, and other entities offering similar financial services, as well as retail businesses that offer products and services offered by the Company, could adversely affect the Company's results of operations. The Company has many competitors to its core lending and merchandise sales operations. The Company's principal competitors are other pawnshops, short-term loan companies, internet-based lenders, consumer finance companies and other financial institutions that serve the Company's primary customer base. Many other financial institutions or other businesses that do not now offer products or services directed toward the Company's traditional customer base, many of whom may be much larger than the Company, could begin doing so. Significant increases in the number and size of competitors for the Company's business could result in a decrease in the number of short-term loans or pawn loans that the Company writes, resulting in lower levels of revenue and earnings in these categories. Furthermore, the Company has many competitors to its retail operations, such as retailers of new merchandise, retailers of pre-owned merchandise, other pawnshops, thrift shops, online retailers, on-line classified advertising sites and online auction sites. Increased competition or aggressive marketing and pricing practices by these competitors could result in decreased revenue, margins and turnover rates in the Company's retail operations. In Mexico, the Company competes directly with certain pawn stores owned by government sponsored non-profit foundations. The government could take actions that would harm the Company's ability to compete in the Mexico market. In addition, the Company's two largest U.S.-based pawn competitors, both of whom are larger than the Company, have launched significant acquisition expansion programs in Mexico. A sustained deterioration of economic conditions or an economic crisis could reduce demand or profitability for the Company's products and services and increase credit losses which would result in reduced earnings. In addition, business and financial results may be adversely impacted by unfavorable economic conditions associated with a global or regional economic crisis which include adverse changes in interest or tax rates, effects of government initiatives to manage economic conditions and increased volatility of commodity markets and foreign currency exchange rates. Specifically, a rapid or sustained deterioration in the economy could cause deterioration in the performance of the Company's loan portfolios and in consumer or market demand for pre-owned merchandise or gold such as that sold in the Company's pawnshops. While the credit risk for much of the Company's pawn lending is mitigated by the collateralized nature of pawn lending, a sustained deterioration in the econo my could reduce the demand and resale value of pre-owned merchandise and reduce the amount that the Company could effectively lend on an item of collateral. Such reductions could adversely affect pawn loan balances, pawn loan redemption rates, inventory balances, inventory mixes, sales volumes and gross profit margins. An economic slowdown could result in a decrease in loan demand and an increase in loan defaults on short-term loan and credit services products. During such a slowdown, the Company could be required to tighten its underwriting standards, which would reduce short-term loan balances and related revenue and credit services fees, and could face more difficulty in collecting defaulted short-term loans, which could lead to an increase in loan losses. As short-term loans and credit services customers generally have to be employed to qualify for a loan, an increase in the unemployment rate would reduce the number of potential customers. The Company's financial position and results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates in Mexico. During the current global economic crises, the volatility of the exchange rate of the Mexican peso to the U.S. dollar has increased. The Company derives significant revenue, earnings and cash flow from operations in Mexico. The Company's exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations results primarily from the translation exposure associated with the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as from transaction exposure associated with transactions in currencies other than an entity's functional currency. While the Consolidated Financial Statements are reported in U.S. dollars, the financial statements of the Company's Mexican subsidiaries are prepared using the Mexican peso as the functional currency and translated into U.S. dollars by applying appropriate exchange rates. As a result, fluctuations in the ex change rate of the U.S. dollar relative to the Mexican peso could cause significant fluctuations in the Company's results. In addition, while expenses with respect to foreign operations are generally denominated in the same currency as corresponding sales, the Company has transaction exposure to the extent receipts and expenditures are not offsetting in the subsidiary's functional currency. In addition, changes in currency could negatively affect customer demand, especially in Mexico and in U.S. stores located along the Mexican border. In addition, the Company's Mexican-based subsidiaries experience foreign currency exposure to the extent monetary assets and liabilities, including debt, are in U.S. dollars, rather than the subsidiaries' functional currency, which is the Mexican peso. Moreover, the costs of doing business abroad may increase as a result of adverse exchange rate fluctuations. A decreased demand for the Company's products and services and failure of the Company to adapt to such decreases could adversely affect results. Although the Company's products and services are a staple of its customer base, the demand for a particular product or service may decrease due to a variety of factors, such as the availability of competing products, changes in customers' financial conditions, or regulatory restrictions that reduce customer access to particular products. Should the Company fail to adapt to a significant change in its customers' demand for, or access to, its products, the Company's revenue could decrease significantly. Even if the Company does make adaptations, customers may resist or may reject products whose adaptations make them less attractive or less available. In any event, the effect of any product change on the results of the Company's business may not be fully ascertainable until the change has been in effect for some time. In particular, the Co mpany has changed, and will continue to change, some of the short-term loan products and services it offers due to regulatory developments. Changes in the capital markets or the Company's financial condition could reduce available capital. Although the Company currently has no outstanding balance on its bank line of credit, which expires in April 2010, the Company has in the past accessed the debt capital markets to refinance existing debt obligations and to obtain capital to finance growth. Efficient access to these markets is critical to the Company's ongoing financial success; however, the Company's future access to the debt capital markets could become restricted due to a variety of factors, including a deterioration of the Company's earnings, cash flows, balance sheet quality, regulatory restrictions or overall business or industry prospects, a significant deterioration in the state of the capital markets or a negative bias toward the Company's industry by market participants. Inability to access the credit markets on acceptable terms, if at all, would have a materially adverse effect on the Company's financial co ndition. The Company's business depends on the uninterrupted operation of the Company's facilities, systems and business functions, including its information technology and other business systems. The Company's business depends highly upon its employees' ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions such as internet support, call centers, and processing and making cash advances. Additionally, the Company's storefront operations depend on the efficiency and reliability of the Company's point-of-sale system. A shut-down of or inability to access the facilities in which the Company's online operations, storefront point-of-sale system and other technology infrastructure are based, such as a power outage, a failure of one or more of its information technology, telecommunications or other systems, or sustained or repeated disruptions of such systems could significantly impair its ability to perform such functions on a timely basis and could result i n a deterioration of the Company's ability to perform efficient storefront lending and merchandise disposition activities, provide customer service, perform collections activities, or perform other necessary business functions. A security breach of the Company's computer systems could also interrupt or damage its operations or harm its reputation. In addition, the Company could be subject to liability if confidential customer information is misappropriated from its computer systems. Despite the implementation of significant security measures, these systems may still be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. Any compromise of security could deter people from entering into transactions that involve transmitting confidential information to the Company's systems, which could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's business. The Company is subject to intangible-asset impairment risk. At December 31, 2009, the Company had goodwill and identified intangible assets totaling $69,731,000 and $521,000, respectively, on its Consolidated Balance Sheet, all of which represent assets capitalized in connection with the Company's acquisitions and business combinations. Accounting for intangible assets requires significant management estimates and judgment. The Company may not realize the value of these intangible assets. Management performs periodic reviews of the carrying values of the intangible assets to determine whether events and circumstances indicate that an impairment in value may have occurred. A variety of factors could cause the carrying value of an intangible asset to become impaired. Should a review indicate impairment, a write-down of the carrying value of the intangible asset would occur, resulting in a non-cash charge, which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations. The Company depends on its senior management and may not be able to retain those employees or recruit additional qualified personnel. The Company depends on its senior management. The loss of services of any of the members of the Company's senior management could adversely affect the Company's business until a suitable replacement can be found. There may be a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions, and the Company cannot ensure that it would be able to identify or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms. The inability to successfully integrate acquisitions could adversely affect results. The success of an acquisition is subject to numerous internal and external factors, such as the ability to consolidate data processing and accounting functions, the management of additional sales, administrative, operations and management personnel, overall management of a larger organization, competitive market forces, and general economic factors. Failure to successfully integrate an acquisition would have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. Adverse real estate market fluctuations and/or the inability to renew and extend store operating leases could affect the Company's profits. The Company leases most of its locations. A significant rise in real estate prices or real property taxes could result in an increase in store lease costs as the Company opens new locations and renews leases for existing locations, thereby negatively impacting the Company's results of operations. The Company also holds certain developed and undeveloped real estate which could be impacted by adverse market fluctuations. In addition, the inability of the Company to renew, extend or replace expiring store leases could negatively impact the results of operations. Inclement weather can adversely impact the Company's operating results. The occurrence of weather events such as rain, cold weather, snow, wind, storms, hurricanes, or other natural disasters, adversely affecting consumer traffic and collection activities at the Company's stores could negatively impact the Company's operating results. The Company's business may be impacted by the outbreak of certain public health issues, including epidemics, pandemics and other contagious diseases such as the H1N1 influenza. In the event of such an outbreak, regulatory and/or public health officials could restrict store operating hours, product offerings and/or the number of customers allowed in a store at one time, which could adversely affect the Company's financial results. In addition, to the extent that the Company's customers become infected by such diseases, or feel uncomfortable visiting public locations due to a perceived risk of exposure to contagious diseases, the Company could experience a reduction in customer traffic which could adversely affect the Company's financial results. Other risk factors are discussed under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Other risks that are indicated in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission may apply as well. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of December 31, 2009, the Company had no unresolved SEC staff comments. 