Item 1A. Risk FactorsImportant risk factors that could cause results or events to differ from current expectations are described below. These factors are not intended to be an all-encompassing list of risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance, development and results of the Company's business.Both pawn and other consumer loan products continue to come under increased regulation and scrutiny. If changes in regulations affecting the Company's pawn, credit services and consumer loan businesses create increased restrictions, or have the effect of prohibiting loans in the jurisdictions where the Company offers these products, such regulations could materially impair or reduce the Company's pawn, credit services and consumer loan businesses and limit its expansion into new markets. The Company's products and services are subject to extensive regulation and supervision under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations in both the United States and Mexico. The Company faces the risk that restrictions or limitations on loan products, loan amounts, loan yields, loan fees and customer acceptance of loan products resulting from the enactment, change, or interpretation of laws and regulations in the United States or Mexico could have a negative effect on the Company's business activities. Both consumer loans, and to a lesser extent, pawn loans, have come under increased scrutiny and increasingly restrictive regulation in recent years. Other enacted or recently proposed regulatory activity may limit the number of loans that customers may receive or have outstanding and require the Company to offer an extended payment plan to its customers, and regulations adopted by some states require that all borrowers of certain loan products be listed on a database, limit the yield on pawn or consumer loans and limit the number of such loans borrowers may have outstanding. Certain consumer advocacy groups and federal and state legislators have also asserted that laws and regulations should be tightened so as to severely limit, if not eliminate, the availability of pawn loans, consumer loans and credit services products to consumers. It is difficult to assess the likelihood of the enactment of any unfavorable federal or state legislation, and there can be no assurance that additional legislative or regulatory initiatives will not be enacted that would severely restrict, prohibit, or eliminate the Company's ability to offer certain consumer loan products.19Table of Contents In Mexico, similar restrictions and regulations affecting the pawn and consumer loan industries, including licensing restrictions, customer identification requirements, suspicious activity reporting, disclosure requirements and limits on interest rates and/or loan service fees, have been and continue to be proposed from time to time. Adoption of such federal, state or local regulation or legislation in the United States and Mexico could restrict, or even eliminate, the availability of pawn and consumer finance at some or all of the Company's locations, which would adversely affect the Company's operations and financial condition. For example, the Texas cities of Houston, El Paso and Bryan where the Company operates 27 stores, recently enacted city ordinances that will constrain its ability to provide credit services products in these cities. Also, due in part to the enactment of similar city ordinances focused on the short-term consumer loan industry, the Company recently closed 7 of its consumer loan stores located in the cities of Austin, Texas and Dallas, Texas. In 2013, the City of San Antonio, Texas enacted a local ordinance regulating the consumer loan industry. Local jurisdictions are also increasingly using local zoning, permitting and licensing laws to restrict and regulate pawn store operations and short-term consumer lending. The state of Texas has laws affirmatively authorizing and imposing requirements on short-term consumer lending, including legislation that became effective at the beginning of 2012. The Company is closely monitoring proposed legislation being discussed in Texas relating to consumer loan products and services similar to the products and services it offers. The extent of the impact of any future legislative or regulatory changes will depend on the nature of the legislative or regulatory change, the jurisdictions to which the new or modified laws would apply and the amount of business the Company does in that jurisdiction. Moreover, similar actions by states or foreign countries in which the Company does not currently operate could limit its opportunities to pursue its growth strategies. A more detailed discussion of the regulatory environment and current developments and risks to the Company is provided in “Business - Governmental Regulation” below.Media reports and public perception of consumer loans, such as payday advances or pawn loans, as being predatory or abusive could materially adversely affect the Company's consumer loan, credit services and pawn businesses. In recent years, consumer advocacy groups and some media reports, in both the United States and Mexico, have advocated governmental action to prohibit or place severe restrictions on consumer loans, including payday advances and pawn loans.The consumer advocacy groups and media reports generally focus on the cost to a consumer for this type of loan, which is higher than the interest typically charged by banks to consumers with better credit histories. These consumer advocacy groups and media reports typically characterize pawn and/or consumer loans as predatory or abusive despite the large customer demand for payday advances or pawn loans. If the negative characterization of these types of loans becomes increasingly accepted by consumers, demand for consumer loan products could significantly decrease, which could materially affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, if the negative characterization of these types of loans becomes increasingly accepted by legislators and regulators, the Company could become subject to more restrictive laws and regulations that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that was created by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 has announced the commencement of regulatory, supervisory and enforcement powers over non-bank providers of consumer credit such as the Company, but the full extent of the nature, extent and timing of such exercise of these powers is unclear. Such exercise of power over the Company could be burdensome and expensive to the Company and could force the Company to modify or terminate some of its short-term consumer lending products in the U.S.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) created the CFPB and granted it explicit supervisory authority to examine and require registration of non-bank providers of consumer financial products and services, including providers of consumer loans such as the Company, the authority to adopt rules describing specified acts and practices as being “unfair,” “deceptive” or “abusive” and hence unlawful, and the authority to impose recordkeeping obligations. The CFPB became operational in certain respects in July 2011, although it did not have the ability to oversee and exercise its full authority over non-depository institutions and implement related rules until a permanent director was installed. On January 4, 2012, President Obama appointed a Director of the CFPB in a recess appointment bypassing Senate confirmation. Although there remain doubts about the legality of this appointment and the appointment may be subject to legal challenge, the CFPB has announced that it will exercise full regulatory, supervisory and enforcement powers over certain non-bank providers of consumer financial products and services such as the Company. The Company does not currently know the nature and extent of the rules the CFPB will consider for consumer loan products and services such as those offered by the Company or the timeframe in which the CFPB may consider such rules.20Table of Contents The CFPB has indicated that it intends to systematically gather data to obtain a complete picture of the consumer loan market and its impact on consumers, and the CFPB has also released its Short-Term, Small-Dollar Lending Procedures, which is the field guide CFPB examiners will use when examining small-dollar lenders such as the Company. The CFPB's examination authority permits CFPB examiners to inspect the Company's books and records and ask questions about its business, and the examination procedures include specific modules for examining marketing activities, loan application and origination activities, payment processing activities and sustained use by consumers, collections, defaults and consumer reporting and third-party relationships. On April 24, 2013, the CFPB issued a report entitled “Payday Loans and Deposit Advance Products: A White Paper of Initial Findings.” The report discusses the initial findings of the CFPB regarding short-term payday loans and deposit account advance loans. While the CFPB’s study stated that “these products may work for some consumers for whom an expense needs to be deferred for a short period of time,” the CFPB also noted that its “findings raised substantial consumer protection concerns” related to the sustained use of payday loans and deposit account advances. The CFPB asserted that, based on the data gathered to date and the potential for consumer harm, “further attention is warranted to protect consumers” and that the CFPB “expects to use its authorities to provide such protections.” The CFPB report did not focus on online lending, but the CFPB did indicate that it is separately analyzing the use of online payday loans. Although the CFPB does not have the authority to regulate fees or interest rates, it is possible that at some time in the future the CFPB could propose and adopt rules making short-term consumer lending products and services materially less profitable or even impractical to offer, which could force the Company to modify or terminate certain of its product offerings in the United States. The CFPB could also adopt rules imposing new and potentially burdensome requirements and limitations with respect to other consumer loan products and services. Any such rules could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition or could make the continuance of all or part of the Company's current U.S. business impractical or unprofitable.In addition to the Dodd-Frank Act's grant of regulatory and supervisory powers to the CFPB, the Dodd-Frank Act gives the CFPB authority to pursue administrative proceedings or litigation for violations of federal consumer financial laws (including the CFPB's own rules). For instance, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB is granted primary supervisory, regulatory and enforcement authority of Fair Credit Reporting Act issues. It is not clear how the CFPB will exercise its supervisory, regulatory and enforcement authority for federal consumer financial laws like the Fair Credit Reporting Act, and it is possible that the CFPB’s approach may differ from the approach previously taken by other regulators. In these proceedings, the CFPB can obtain cease and desist orders (which can include orders for restitution or rescission of contracts, as well as other kinds of affirmative relief) and monetary penalties ranging from $5,000 per day for ordinary violations of federal consumer financial laws to $25,000 per day for reckless violations and $1,000,000 per day for knowing violations. Also, if a company has violated Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act or CFPB regulations implemented under Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Dodd-Frank Act empowers state attorneys general and state regulators to bring civil actions for the kind of cease and desist orders available to the CFPB. If the CFPB or one or more state officials believe that the Company has violated any of the applicable laws or regulations, they could exercise their enforcement powers in ways that could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its business.Adverse gold market fluctuations could negatively affect the Company's profits.The Company’s profitability could be adversely impacted by gold market fluctuations. Approximately 39% of the Company's pawn loans were collateralized with jewelry, which is primarily gold, and 34% of its inventories, also primarily gold, as of December 31, 2013, and the Company sells significant quantities of gold and other precious metals acquired through collateral forfeitures or direct purchases from customers. In addition to normal market risks associated with accepting gold as loan collateral and buying and selling gold, the current global economic conditions have increased the volatility of commodity markets such as those for gold and other precious metals. A significant and sustained decline in gold and/or other precious metal prices could result in decreased merchandise sales and related margins, decreased inventory valuations and sub-standard collateralization of outstanding pawn loans. In addition, a significant decline in market prices could result in a lower balance of pawn loans outstanding for the Company, as customers would receive lower loan amounts for individual pieces of jewelry or other gold items.Risks and uncertainties related to the Company's foreign operations could negatively impact the Company's operating results.As of December 31, 2013, the Company had 597 store locations in Mexico, a country in which there are potential risks related to geo-political events, political instability, corruption, economic volatility, drug cartel and gang-related violence, social and ethnic unrest, enforcement of property rights, governmental regulations, public safety and security and import/export regulations among others. As in many developing markets, there are also uncertainties as to how both local law and U.S. federal law is applied, including areas involving commercial transactions and foreign investment. As a result, actions or events could occur in Mexico which are beyond the Company's control, which could restrict or eliminate the Company's ability to operate some or all of its locations in Mexico or significantly reduce customer traffic, product demand and the expected profitability of such operations.21Table of Contents The Company's allowance for credit losses for credit services and consumer loans may not be sufficient to cover actual credit losses, which could adversely affect its financial condition and operating results.The Company's consumer loan and pawn stores in Texas offer a fee-based credit services organization (“CSO”) program (the “CSO Program”) through which the Company assists customers in applying for short-term extensions of credit from an independent non-bank consumer lending company (the “Independent Lender”). When an extension of credit is granted, the Company issues the Independent Lender a letter of credit to guarantee the repayment of the customer's extension of credit. The Company is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken by issuing the letters of credit. The Company records the estimated fair value of the liability under the letters of credit in accrued liabilities. The Company also has customer loans arising from its consumer loan operations. The Company is required to recognize losses resulting from the inability of credit services and consumer loan customers and/or borrowers to repay such receivables or loans. The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses in an attempt to cover credit losses inherent in its consumer loan operations. Additional credit losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than the Company has experienced to date. The allowance for credit losses is based primarily upon historical credit loss experience, with consideration given to delinquency levels, collateral values, economic conditions and underwriting and collection practices. This evaluation is inherently subjective, as it requires estimates of material factors that may be susceptible to significant change, especially in the event of a change in the governmental regulations that affect the Company's ability to generate new loans or collect outstanding loans. If the Company's assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect, its current allowance may not be sufficient and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in its loan portfolio, which could adversely affect its financial condition and operating results.The failure or inability of third-parties who provide products, services or support to the Company to maintain their products, services or support could disrupt Company operations or result in a loss of revenue.The Company's credit services operations depend, in part, on the willingness and ability of the Independent Lender to make extensions of credit to its customers. The loss of the relationship with this lender, and an inability to replace it with a new lender or lenders, or the failure of the lender to fund new extensions of credit and to maintain volumes, quality and consistency in its loan programs could cause the Company to lose customers and substantially decrease the revenue and earnings of the Company's credit services business. In addition, the Company's lending, pawn retail, scrap jewelry and cash management operations are dependent upon the Company's ability to maintain retail banking relationships with commercial banks. As discussed in greater detail in the following risk factor, recent actions by federal regulators have caused certain commercial banks, including certain banks used by the Company, to cease offering such services to the Company and other companies in the Company's industry. The Company also relies significantly on outside vendors to provide services such as financial transaction processing, utilities, store security, armored transport, precious metal smelting, data and voice networks, and other information technology products and services. One bank affiliate recently notified the Company that it intends to cease providing credit card processing services to the Company. The failure or inability of any of these third-party lenders, financial institutions or vendors to provide such services could limit the Company's ability to grow its business and could increase the Company's costs of doing business, which could adversely affect the Company's operations if the Company is unable to replace them with comparable service providers at a comparable cost.An inability to disburse consumer loan proceeds or collect consumer loan payments through the Automated Clearing House ("ACH") system would materially adversely affect the Company's consumer loan business. When making consumer loans, the Company's online consumer loan business in Texas uses the ACH system to deposit loan proceeds into its customers’ bank accounts, and both the Company's online and storefront consumer loan businesses, including loans made through the CSO Program, depend all or in part on the ACH system to collect amounts due to the Company by withdrawing funds from its customers’ bank accounts when the Company has obtained written authorization to do so from its customers. The Company's ACH transactions are processed by banks, and if these banks cease to provide ACH processing services to the Company, the Company would have to materially alter, or possibly discontinue, some or all of its consumer loan business if alternative ACH processors are not available. It has been reported that recent actions by the U.S. Department of Justice (the “Justice Department”), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) and certain state regulators appear to be intended to discourage banks and ACH payment processors from providing access to the ACH system for certain short-term consumer loan providers that they believe are operating illegally, cutting off these providers’ access to the ACH system to either debit or credit customer accounts (or both). According to published reports, the Justice Department has issued subpoenas to banks and payment processors and the FDIC and other regulators are said to be using bank oversight examinations to discourage banks from providing access to the ACH system to certain online lenders. Recently, the Department of Financial Services of the State of New York (the "NY DFS"), sent letters to approximately 35 online short-term consumer loan companies (that did not include the Company as the Company does not offer consumer loans in New York) demanding that they cease and desist offering illegal payday loans to New York consumers and also sent letters to over 100 22Table of Contents banks, as well as the National Automated Clearing House Association ("NACHA") (which oversees the ACH network), requesting that they work with the NY DFS to cut off ACH system access to New York customer accounts for illegal payday lenders. NACHA, in turn, has requested that its participants review origination activity for these 35 online short-term consumer loan companies and to advise NACHA whether it has terminated these lenders’ access to the ACH system or, if not, the basis for not doing so. NACHA also requested that participants review ACH origination activities related to other online loan companies and to terminate any ACH system access that would violate NACHA rules, which would include, according to NACHA, any authorizations to use the ACH system to pay illegal loans that are unenforceable under state law. Maryland’s Division of Financial Regulation also has been reported to have taken steps to stop banks in Maryland from processing illegal payday loans in its state, and the California Department of Business Oversight similarly directed state-licensed banks and credit unions to monitor transactions with any unlicensed lenders. This heightened regulatory scrutiny by the Justice Department, the FDIC and other regulators has the potential to cause banks and ACH payment processors to cease doing business with consumer lenders who are operating legally, without regard to whether that lender is complying with applicable laws, simply to avoid the risk of heightened scrutiny or even litigation. In addition, NACHA has certain operating rules that govern the use of the ACH system. In November 2013, NACHA proposed amendments to these rules that, if adopted, would be effective in March 2015 and would establish limitations on ACH return rates and impose fees on certain ACH returns. If these amendments are adopted in their current form, the Company's access to the ACH system could be restricted, ACH costs could increase and the Company could be required to make changes to its business practices. There can be no assurance the Company's access to the ACH system will not be impaired as a result of this heightened scrutiny or the proposed NACHA rule amendments. If this access is impaired, the Company's consumer loan business will be materially adversely affected and the Company may find it difficult or impossible to continue some or all of its consumer loan business, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects and results of operations and financial condition. Increased competition from banks, savings and loans, internet-based lenders, other short-term consumer lenders, and other entities offering similar financial services, as well as retail businesses that offer products and services offered by the Company, could adversely affect the Company's results of operations.The Company's principal competitors are other pawnshops, consumer loan companies, internet-based lenders, consumer finance companies, rent-to-own stores, retail finance programs, payroll lenders and other financial institutions that serve the Company's primary customer base. Many other financial institutions or other businesses that do not now offer products or services directed toward the Company's traditional customer base, many of whom may be much larger than the Company, could begin doing so. Significant increases in the number and size of competitors for the Company's business could result in a decrease in the number of consumer loans or pawn loans that the Company writes, resulting in lower levels of revenue and earnings in these categories. Furthermore, the Company has many competitors to its retail operations, such as retailers of new merchandise, retailers of pre-owned merchandise, other pawnshops, thrift shops, online retailers, online classified advertising sites and online auction sites. Increased competition or aggressive marketing and pricing practices by these competitors could result in decreased revenue, margins and turnover rates in the Company's retail operations. In Mexico, the Company competes directly with certain pawn stores owned by government affiliated or sponsored non-profit foundations. The government could take actions that would harm the Company's ability to compete in the Mexico market.A sustained deterioration of economic conditions or an economic crisis could reduce demand or profitability for the Company's products and services and increase credit losses which would result in reduced earnings.The Company's business and financial results may be adversely impacted by sustained unfavorable economic conditions or unfavorable economic conditions associated with a global or regional economic crisis which, in either case, include adverse changes in interest or tax rates, effects of government initiatives to manage economic conditions and increased volatility of commodity markets and foreign currency exchange rates. Specifically, a sustained or rapid deterioration in the economy could cause deterioration in the performance of the Company's loan portfolios and in consumer or market demand for pre-owned merchandise or gold such as that sold in the Company's pawnshops. A sustained deterioration in the economy could reduce the demand and resale value of pre-owned merchandise and reduce the amount that the Company could effectively lend on an item of collateral. Such reductions could adversely affect pawn loan balances, pawn loan redemption rates, inventory balances, inventory mixes, sales volumes and gross profit margins. An economic slowdown also could result in a decrease in loan demand and an increase in loan defaults on consumer loan and credit services products. During such a slowdown, the Company could be required to tighten its underwriting standards, which would reduce consumer loan balances and related revenue and credit services fees, and could face more difficulty in collecting defaulted consumer loans, which could lead to an increase in loan losses. As consumer loans and credit services customers generally have to be employed to qualify for a loan or extension of credit, an increase in the unemployment rate would reduce the number of potential customers.23Table of Contents The Company's financial position and results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates in Mexico.During the global economic crisis of 2008 and the continued aftermath, the volatility of the exchange rate of the Mexican peso to the U.S. dollar has increased significantly. The Company derives significant revenue, earnings and cash flow from operations in Mexico. The Company's exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations results primarily from the translation exposure associated with the preparation of the Company's consolidated financial statements, as well as from transaction exposure associated with transactions and assets denominated in currencies other than the Company's functional currency. While the Company's consolidated financial statements are reported in U.S. dollars, the financial statements of the Company's Mexican subsidiaries are prepared using the Mexican peso as the functional currency and translated into U.S. dollars by applying appropriate exchange rates. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar relative to the Mexican peso could cause significant fluctuations in the value of the Company's assets, liabilities and operating results. In addition, while expenses with respect to foreign operations are generally denominated in the same currency as corresponding sales, the Company has transaction exposure to the extent receipts and expenditures are not offsetting in the subsidiary's functional currency. The costs of doing business in foreign jurisdictions also may increase as a result of adverse rate fluctuations. In addition, changes in currency rates could negatively affect customer demand, especially in Mexico and in U.S. stores located along the Mexican border. The Company's Mexican-based subsidiaries experience foreign currency exposure to the extent monetary assets and liabilities, including debt, are in U.S. dollars, rather than the subsidiaries' functional currency, which is the Mexican peso. A decrease in demand for the Company's products and services and the failure of the Company to adapt to such decreases could adversely affect results.Although the Company's products and services are a staple of its customer base, the demand for a particular product or service may decrease due to a variety of factors, such as the availability and pricing of competing products, changes in customers' financial conditions, real or perceived loss of consumer confidence or regulatory restrictions that increase or reduce customer access to particular products. Should the Company fail to adapt to a significant change in its customers' demand for, or regulatory access to, its products, the Company's revenue could decrease significantly. Even if the Company does make adaptations, customers may resist or may reject products whose adaptations make them less attractive or less available. In any event, the effect of any product change on the results of the Company's business may not be fully ascertainable until the change has been in effect for some time. In particular, the Company has changed, and will continue to change, some of the consumer loan products and services it offers due to regulatory developments. Demand may also fluctuate by geographic region. The current geographic concentration of the Company's stores creates exposure to local economies and regional downturns. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had significant store concentration in Mexico, Texas, Colorado and Maryland. As a result, the business is currently more susceptible to regional conditions than the operations of more geographically diversified competitors, and the Company is vulnerable to economic downturns in those regions. Any unforeseen events or circumstances that negatively affect these areas could materially adversely affect the Company's revenues and profitability.Changes in the capital markets or the Company's financial condition could reduce available capital.The Company has, in the past, accessed the debt capital markets to refinance existing debt obligations and to obtain capital to finance growth. Efficient access to these markets is critical to the Company's ongoing financial success; however, the Company's future access to the debt capital markets could become restricted due to a variety of factors, including a deterioration of the Company's earnings, cash flows, balance sheet quality, regulatory restrictions or overall business or industry prospects, a significant deterioration in the state of the capital markets or a negative bias toward the Company's industry by market participants. Inability to access the credit markets on acceptable terms, if at all, would have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition.The terms of the Company's revolving bank line of credit impose financial and operating restrictions on the Company.The Company's bank line of credit contains a number of customary negative covenants and requires the Company to maintain certain financial ratios. The covenants and restrictions contained in the credit facility could limit the Company's ability to fund future operations or make capital expenditures, acquisitions or other investments in the future. Any failure to comply with any of these financial and other affirmative and negative covenants would constitute an event of default under the Company's credit facility, entitling the lenders to, among other things, terminate future credit availability, increase the interest rate on outstanding debt, and/or accelerate the maturity of outstanding obligations under the credit facility. Any such default could materially adversely affect the Company's business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could impair the Company's ability to continue current operations.24Table of Contents Failure to satisfy the Company's debt obligations could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.At December 31, 2013, the Company had $182,000,000 outstanding on its bank line of credit. At December 31, 2013, the Company had notes payable to individuals arising from a 16-store pawn acquisition in September 2012, with a remaining balance of $6,531,000 bearing interest at 4.0% per annum and the Company had a note payable arising from a 29-store pawn acquisition in January 2012 with a remaining balance of $1,821,000 bearing interest at 3.0% per annum. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on these debt obligations or if it is in breach of the covenants contained in the debt agreements, it would default under the terms of the applicable agreement or indenture. Any such default could result in an acceleration of the repayment obligations to such lenders as well as the lenders under any of its other debt agreements under applicable cross-default provisions. Any such default could materially adversely affect the Company's business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could impair the Company's ability to continue current operations.The Company's business depends on the uninterrupted operation of the Company's facilities, systems and business functions, including its information technology and other business systems.The Company's business depends highly upon its employees' ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions such as operating and securing its retail locations, internet support, call centers, and other administrative support functions. Additionally, the Company's storefront operations depend on the efficiency and reliability of the Company's point-of-sale system. A shut-down of or inability to access the facilities in which the Company's online operations, storefront point-of-sale and loan management system and other technology infrastructure are based, such as a power outage, a security breach, a failure of one or more of its information technology, telecommunications or other systems, or sustained or repeated disruptions of such systems could significantly impair its ability to perform such functions on a timely basis and could result in a deterioration of the Company's ability to perform efficient storefront lending and merchandise disposition activities, provide customer service, perform collection activities, or perform other necessary business functions.Security breaches, cyber attacks or fraudulent activity could result in damage to the Company's operations or lead to reputational damage.A security breach of the Company's computer systems could also interrupt or damage its operations or harm its reputation. In addition, the Company could be subject to liability if confidential customer information is misappropriated from its computer systems. Any compromise of security, including security breaches perpetrated on persons with whom the Company has commercial relationships, that result in the unauthorized release of its users’ personal information, could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to the Company's reputation, and a loss of confidence in the Company's security measures, which could harm its business. Any compromise of security could deter people from entering into transactions that involve transmitting confidential information to the Company's systems and could harm relationships with the Company's suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. Actual or anticipated attacks may cause the Company to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. Despite the implementation of significant security measures, these systems may still be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. The Company may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber attacks.Most of the Company's customers provide personal information, including bank account information when applying for consumer loans. The Company relies on encryption and authentication technology to provide security and authentication to effectively secure transmission of confidential information, including customer bank account and other personal information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in the technology used by the Company to protect transaction data being breached or compromised.In addition, many of the third parties who provide products, services, or support to the Company could also experience any of the above cyber risks or security breaches, which could impact the Company's customers and its business and could result in a loss of customers, suppliers, or revenue.Judicial decisions, CFPB rule-making or amendments to the Federal Arbitration Act (the “FAA”) could render the arbitration agreements the Company uses illegal or unenforceable.The Company includes dispute arbitration provisions in many of its customer loan agreements. These provisions are designed to allow the Company to resolve any customer disputes through individual arbitration rather than in court. The Company's arbitration provisions explicitly provide that all arbitrations will be conducted on an individual and not on a class basis. Thus, the Company's 25Table of Contents arbitration agreements, if enforced, have the effect of mitigating class action liability. They do not have any impact on regulatory enforcement proceedings. The Company takes the position that the FAA requires the enforcement in accordance with their terms of arbitration agreements containing class action waivers of the type the Company uses.In the past, a number of courts, including the California and Nevada Supreme Courts, concluded that arbitration agreements with class action waivers are “unconscionable” and hence unenforceable, particularly where a small dollar amount is in controversy on an individual basis. However, in April 2011, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in a 5-4 decision in AT&T Mobility v. Concepcion that the FAA preempts state laws that would otherwise invalidate consumer arbitration agreements with class action waivers.The Company's arbitration agreements differ in some respects from the agreement at issue in Concepcion, and some courts have continued in the aftermath of Concepcion to find reasons to find arbitration agreements unenforceable. Thus, it is possible that one or more courts hostile to the Company's kind of lending and/or to pre-dispute mandatory consumer arbitration agreements could use the differences between the Company's arbitration agreements and the agreement at issue in Concepcion, or some other reason, as a basis for a refusal to enforce the Company's arbitration agreements. Additionally, Congress has considered legislation that would generally limit or prohibit mandatory dispute arbitration in consumer contracts, and it has adopted such prohibitions with respect to certain mortgage loans and certain consumer loans to active-duty members of the military on active duty and their dependents. Also, Dodd-Frank directs the CFPB to study consumer arbitration and report to Congress, and it authorizes the CFPB to adopt rules limiting or prohibiting consumer arbitration, consistent with the results of its study. The CFPB recently announced its proposal to conduct a nationwide telephone survey of credit card holders. Under Dodd-Frank, any CFPB rule prohibiting or limiting arbitration of disputes would apply to arbitration agreements entered into more than six months after the final rule becomes effective (and not to prior arbitration agreements).Any judicial decisions, federal legislation or CFPB rule that would impair the Company's ability to enter into and enforce dispute consumer arbitration agreements with class action waivers could significantly increase the Company's exposure to class action litigation as well as litigation in plaintiff‑friendly jurisdictions. Such litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.The Company is subject to goodwill impairment risk.At December 31, 2013, the Company had $251,241,000 of net goodwill on its consolidated balance sheet, all of which represents assets capitalized in connection with the Company's acquisitions and business combinations. Accounting for goodwill requires significant management estimates and judgment. Management performs periodic reviews of the carrying values of goodwill to determine whether events and circumstances indicate that an impairment in value may have occurred. A variety of factors could cause the carrying value of goodwill to become impaired. Should a review indicate impairment, a write-down of the carrying value of goodwill would occur, resulting in a non-cash charge, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.The Company depends on its senior management and may not be able to retain those employees or recruit additional qualified personnel.The Company depends on its senior management. The loss of services of any of the members of the Company's senior management could adversely affect the Company's business until a suitable replacement can be found. There may be a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions, and the Company cannot ensure that it would be able to identify or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms.The inability to successfully integrate acquisitions could adversely affect results.The Company has historically grown, in part, through strategic acquisitions, including the acquisition of 42 stores during 2013. The Company's strategy is to continue to pursue attractive acquisition opportunities if and when they become available. The success of an acquisition is subject to numerous internal and external factors, such as the ability to consolidate information technology and accounting functions, the management of additional sales, administrative, operations and management personnel, overall management of a larger organization, competitive market forces, and general economic factors. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing businesses, tax costs or inefficiencies, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, information technology systems, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect the Company's ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees, or other third-parties or the Company's ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions and could harm its financial performance. Failure to successfully integrate an acquisition would have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, any acquisition has the risk that the Company may not realize a return on the acquisition or the Company's investment.26Table of Contents Current and future litigation or regulatory proceedings could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.The Company has been subject to lawsuits that could cause it to incur substantial expenditures and generate adverse publicity. The Company is also likely to be subject to further litigation in the future (including class actions). The consequences of an adverse ruling in any current or future litigation could cause the Company to have to refund fees and/or interest collected, refund the principal amount of advances, pay treble or other multiple damages, pay monetary penalties and/or modify or terminate the Company's operations in particular states. Defense of any lawsuit, even if successful, could require substantial time and attention of the Company's management and could require the expenditure of significant amounts for legal fees and other related costs. Settlement of lawsuits may also result in significant payments and modifications to the Company's operations. Adverse court interpretations of the various laws and regulations under which the Company operates could require the Company to alter the products that it offers or cease doing business in the jurisdiction where the court interpretation is applicable. The Company is also subject to regulatory proceedings, and the Company could suffer losses from interpretations of state laws in those regulatory proceedings, even if it is not a party to those proceedings. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition and could impair the Company's ability to continue current operations. Besides regulation specific to consumer lending, which is discussed previously, the Company's pawn, credit services and consumer loan businesses are subject to other federal, state and local regulations, tax laws and import/export laws, including but not limited to the Dodd-Frank Act, Federal Truth and Lending Act and Regulation Z adopted under that Act, Fair Debt Collections Practices Act, Bank Secrecy Act, Money Laundering Suppression Act of 1994, USA Patriot Act, Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Electronic Funds Transfer Act, Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act. In addition, the Company's marketing efforts and the representations the Company makes about its products and services are subject to federal and state unfair and deceptive practice statutes, including the Federal Trade Commission Act and analogous state statutes under which the Federal Trade Commission, state attorneys general or private plaintiffs may bring legal actions. If the Company is found to have engaged in an unfair and deceptive practice, it could have a material adverse effect on its business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The Company is also subject to similar applicable laws and regulations in Mexico as described further in “Business - Governmental Regulation” below. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is costly and can affect operating results and may result in operational restrictions. The Company's failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject it to regulatory enforcement actions, result in the assessment against the Company of civil, monetary, criminal or other penalties, require the Company to refund interest or fees, result in a determination that certain loans are not collectible, result in a revocation of licenses, or cause damage to its reputation, brands and customer relationships, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The Company is subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and other anti-corruption laws, and the Company's failure to comply with these anti-corruption laws could result in penalties that could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition.The Company is subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits companies and their agents or intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business and/or other benefits. Although the Company has policies and procedures designed to ensure that it, its employees, agents, and intermediaries comply with the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws, there can be no assurance that such policies or procedures will work effectively all of the time or protect the Company against liability for actions taken by its employees, agents, and intermediaries with respect to its business or any businesses that it may acquire. In the event that the Company believes, or has reason to believe, that its employees, agents, or intermediaries have or may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA, the Company may be required to investigate or have a third party investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. The Company's continued operation and expansion outside the United States, especially in Mexico, could increase the risk of such violations in the future. If the Company is not in compliance with the FCPA and other laws governing the conduct of business with government entities (including local laws), the Company may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, which could have an adverse effect on its business, results of operations, and financial condition. Investigation of any potential violations of the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws by U.S. or foreign authorities could harm the Company's reputation and could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition.27Table of Contents Failure to maintain certain criteria required by state and local regulatory bodies could result in fines or the loss of the Company's licenses to conduct business.Most states and many local jurisdictions both in the United States and in Mexico in which the Company operates, as well as the federal government in Mexico, require licenses to conduct the Company's business. These states or their respective regulatory bodies have established criteria that the Company must meet in order to obtain, maintain, and renew those licenses. For example, many of the states in which the Company operates requires it to meet or exceed certain operational, advertising, disclosure, collection, and recordkeeping requirements and to maintain a minimum amount of net worth or equity. From time to time, the Company is subject to audits in these states to ensure it is meeting the applicable requirements to maintain these licenses. Failure to meet these requirements could result in various fines and penalties, which could include the revocation of existing licenses or the denial of new and renewal licensing requests. The Company cannot guarantee that future license applications or renewals will be granted. If the Company were to lose any of its licenses to conduct its business, it could result in the temporary or permanent closure of stores and online activities, which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations, cash flows and ability to service its debt obligations. Adverse real estate market fluctuations and/or the inability to renew and extend store operating leases could affect the Company's profits.The Company leases most of its locations. A significant rise in real estate prices or real property taxes could result in an increase in store lease costs as the Company opens new locations and renews leases for existing locations, thereby negatively impacting the Company's results of operations. The Company also holds certain developed and undeveloped real estate, which could be impacted by adverse market fluctuations. In addition, the inability of the Company to renew, extend or replace expiring store leases could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.The Company's lending business is somewhat seasonal, which causes the Company's revenues and operating cash flows to fluctuate and may adversely affect the Company's ability to service its debt obligations.The Company's U.S. lending business typically experiences reduced demand in the first and second quarters as a result of its customers’ receipt of federal tax refund checks typically in February of each year. Demand for the Company's U.S. lending services is generally greatest during the third and fourth quarters. Also, retail sales are seasonally higher in the fourth quarter associated with holiday shopping. Typically, the Company experiences seasonal growth of service fees in the third and fourth quarter of each year due to loan balance growth that occurs after the heavy repayment period of pawn loans in December in Mexico, which is associated with statutory Christmas bonuses received by customers. This seasonality requires the Company to manage its cash flows over the course of the year. If a governmental authority were to pursue economic stimulus actions or issue additional tax refunds, tax credits or other statutory payments at other times during the year, such actions could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition during these periods. If the Company's revenues were to fall substantially below what it would normally expect during certain periods, the Company's annual financial results and its ability to service its debt obligations could be adversely affected.Inclement weather or natural disasters can adversely impact the Company's operating results.The occurrence of weather events such as rain, cold weather, snow, wind, storms, hurricanes, or other natural disasters adversely affecting consumer traffic and loan origination or collection activities at the Company's stores could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. In addition, the Company may incur property, casualty or other losses not covered by insurance. The Company maintains a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty and other risks. The types and amounts of insurance that the Company obtains vary from time to time, depending on availability, cost and management's decisions with respect to risk retention. The Company's insurance policies are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in the Company's retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. Losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and may increase the Company's expenses, which could harm the Company's results of operations and financial condition.The Company's growth is subject to external factors and other circumstances over which it has limited control or that are beyond its control. These factors and circumstances could adversely affect the Company's ability to grow through the opening of new store locations.The success of the Company's expansion strategy is subject to numerous external factors, such as the availability of sites with favorable customer demographics, limited competition, acceptable regulatory restrictions and suitable lease terms, its ability to attract, train and retain qualified unit associates and management personnel and the ability to obtain required government permits 28Table of Contents and licenses. Some of these factors are beyond the Company's control. The failure to execute this expansion strategy would adversely affect the Company's ability to expand its business and could materially adversely affect its business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.The Company’s reported results could be adversely affected by the implementation of new, or changes in the interpretation of existing, accounting principles or financial reporting requirements.The Company prepares its financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and GAAP and its interpretations are subject to change over time. If new rules or interpretations of existing rules require the Company to change its financial reporting, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected, and the Company could be required to restate historical financial reporting.Unexpected changes in foreign tax rates could negatively impact the Company's operating results.The Company currently derives a significant amount of its revenue from operations in Mexico. The Company's foreign subsidiaries accounted for approximately 55% of the Company's total revenues in 2013, and approximately 54% of the Company's total revenues in 2012. The Company's financial results may be negatively impacted to the extent tax rates in Mexico increase and/or exceed those in the United States and as a result of the imposition of withholding requirements on foreign earnings.The international scope of the Company's operations may contribute to increased costs and negatively impact its operations.Because international operations increase the complexity of an organization, the Company may face additional administrative costs in managing its business. In addition, most countries typically impose additional burdens on non-domestic companies through the use of local regulations, tariffs and labor controls. Unexpected changes to the foregoing could negatively impact the Company's operations.The impairment of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Company.The Company has exposure to financial institutions used as depositories of its corporate cash balances. If the Company's counterparties and financial institutions become impaired or insolvent, this could have serious consequences to the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company also has exposure from time to time with counterparties with regard to its foreign currency forwards. These transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty. The Company's business may be impacted by the outbreak of certain public health issues, including epidemics, pandemics and other contagious diseases.In the event of such an outbreak, regulatory and/or public health officials could restrict store operating hours, product offerings and/or the number of customers allowed in a store at one time, which could adversely affect the Company's financial results. In addition, to the extent that the Company's customers become infected by such diseases, or feel uncomfortable visiting public locations due to a perceived risk of exposure to contagious diseases, the Company could experience a reduction in customer traffic, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.If the Company is unable to protect its intellectual property rights, its ability to compete could be negatively impacted.The success of the Company's business depends to a certain extent upon the value associated with its intellectual property rights. The Company owns the trademark “First Cash Financial Services,” which is registered in the United States and utilizes a similar trademark in Mexico. The Company has also developed a proprietary point of sale system for use in its stores. The Company relies on a combination of copyright, trade secret, trademark, and other rights, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect its proprietary technology, processes and other intellectual property. While the Company intends to vigorously protect its trademarks against infringement, it may not be successful. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect its intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. The costs required to protect the Company's intellectual property rights and trademarks could be substantial.29Table of Contents Because the Company maintains a significant supply of cash, loan collateral and inventories in its stores, the Company may be subject to employee and third-party robberies, theft and errors. The Company also may be subject to liability as a result of crimes at its stores.The Company's business requires it to maintain a significant supply of cash, loan collateral and inventories in most of its stores. As a result, the Company is subject to the risk of robberies, theft and errors. Although the Company has implemented various programs in an effort to reduce these risks, maintain insurance coverage for robberies, theft and errors, and utilize various security measures at its facilities, there can be no assurance that robberies, theft and errors will not occur. The extent of the Company's cash, loan collateral and inventory losses or shortages could increase as it expands the nature and scope of its products and services. Robberies, theft and errors could lead to losses and shortages and could adversely affect the Company's business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. It is also possible that violent crimes such as armed robberies may be committed at the Company's stores. The Company could experience liability or adverse publicity arising from such crimes. For example, the Company may be liable if an employee, customer, guard or bystander suffers bodily injury or other harm. Any such event may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.A discussion of certain market risks is covered in “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.