Item 1A. Risk Factors. We face significant competition, and our failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. We face significant competition from many domestic and international manufacturers, with many of these companies participating in one or more parts of each of our markets. Some of these competitors are divisions or subsidiaries of corporations with substantial resources. We also compete with several companies that offer reagents, supplies and service for laboratory instruments that are manufactured by us or others. Our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected by loss of market share through aggressive competition, our customers’ perception of the comparative quality of our competitor’s products, the rate at which new products are introduced by us and our competitors and the extent to which new products displace existing technologies and competitive pricing especially in areas where currency has an effect. Soft global economic conditions resulting in continued lower healthcare utilization rates and reimbursement rates would adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Our customers and our business have been negatively impacted by a material softness in global economic conditions, including high unemployment rates and budgeting constraints by government entities. Such economic conditions may continue, and we are unable to predict the strength and duration of any economic recovery. Continuing softness in economic conditions or slow economic recovery may adversely impact our customers and our business resulting in reduced healthcare utilization rates by patients, reduced reimbursement rates by government agencies to our customers, reduced demand for our products, and increased price pressure for our products and services. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign regulations, and compliance with these laws or any new laws or regulations could cause us to incur substantial costs and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our products and operations are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. A determination that our products or operations are not in compliance with these laws and regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties, prevent us from manufacturing or selling certain of our products and cause us to incur substantial costs in order to be in compliance. To varying degrees, compliance with these laws and regulations may: • Take a significant amount of time • Require the expenditure of substantial resources • Involve extensive clinical and pre-clinical testing • Involve modifications, repairs or replacements of our products • Result in limitations on the proposed uses of our products • Limit our abilities to manufacture, introduce or sell our products Our compliance costs include addressing our ongoing responsibilities under FDA regulations that apply to our products both before and after they are cleared or approved for distribution. Any material delays in obtaining clearance for distribution of our new or modified products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, if FDA were to conclude that any of our products are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk even after obtaining clearance for distribution, or if we are not in compliance with applicable regulations, FDA could: • Ban the product • Seize adulterated or misbranded products • Order a recall, repair or replacement of such product or a refund to the purchaser of the product • Require us to notify health professionals and others that the products present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health • Impose operating restrictions • Enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining to the products • Assess civil penalties against our company, officers or employees • Recommend criminal prosecution to the Department of Justice BEC 2010 FORM 10-K 15 Table of Contents For information regarding our quality systems and product quality matters, see “Part II-Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Quality Systems and Quality Matters.” As we have previously disclosed in other filings, we are currently working to obtain updated product 510(k) clearances for our troponin test kits available on our Dxl and Access immunoassay instruments. Our ability to obtain in a timely manner any necessary 510(k) clearances for troponin or any of our other applicable products will depend on many factors, including our ability to reach agreement with FDA on clinical trial protocols, identify and locate qualified test sites, recruit patients meeting the necessary criteria, and obtain the necessary trial results. Therefore, we can provide no assurance that the necessary clearance or approvals will be obtained within the timeframe anticipated, if at all. Furthermore, the process for 510(k) clearances for any of our new or modified products could be lengthy and costly, could change over time and may require the withdrawal of products from the market until such clearances are obtained as well as the imposition of recalls or the initiation of enforcement actions against us by FDA, including warning letters, fines, seizures, consent orders or injunctions. The loss of revenue from our products that are the subject of FDA inquiries could be more than we estimate and our foreign sales could also be adversely affected. These issues could cause us to lose customers and there could be unanticipated costs associated with these matters or other discussions with FDA and similar regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions. Given the issues pertaining to our troponin test kits as well as our recent recalls relating to sodium and glucose testing on our DxC chemistry systems, we are continuing to evaluate our internal processes and procedures regarding our quality systems and product quality matters. It is possible that more of our products could be affected and the actions with respect to those products could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our internal review of our products could reveal failures in our processes and systems which could be significant. In addition, foreign governmental regulations have become more common and stringent. We may become subject to more rigorous regulation by foreign governmental authorities in the future. Penalties for noncompliance with foreign regulation could be severe, including revocation or suspension of the ability to sell products in that country and criminal sanctions. An adverse regulatory action in the U.S. or in other countries could restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products. Recent and future healthcare reform changes may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Changes to existing laws or regulations, including the effect of potential health care reforms, also could limit our ability to manufacture or sell our products, reduce funding for government and academic research and cause us to incur substantial compliance costs and increase our tax liabilities. The recently enacted Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “PPACA”), institutes substantial changes to the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers and contains several provisions that could have a material impact on our business. With limited exceptions, the PPACA, among other things, imposes a 2.3% deductible excise tax on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the United States beginning in 2013. The PPACA also imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers, effective March 30, 2013. Such information will be made publicly available in a searchable format beginning September 30, 2013. In addition, device manufacturers will also be required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for “knowing failures”), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. We cannot predict at this time the full impact of the PPACA on our business. Nor can we predict whether or the extent to which other proposed changes will be adopted, if any, or how these or future changes will affect the demand for our services. The PPACA as well as other health care reform measures that may be adopted in the future could have a material adverse effect on us and our industry. We must deliver products and services that meet customers’ and patients’ needs and expectations or our business and results of operations will be adversely impacted. Our ability to retain customers, attract new customers, grow our business and enhance our brand depends on our success in delivering products and services that meet our customers’ needs and expectations. If we are unable to deliver reliable products in a timely and prompt manner, promptly respond to and address quality issues, provide expected levels of customer service, develop and maintain cross-functional communication within our company, and comply with applicable regulations and rules, our ability to deliver products that meet our customers’ and patients’ needs and expectations, our competitive position, our branding, and our 16 BEC 2010 FORM 10-K Table of Contents results of operations may be adversely and materially affected. Furthermore, any improvement in the perception of the quality of our competitors’ products or services relative to the quality of our product and services could adversely and materially affect our ability to retain our customers and attract new customers. If we do not develop and introduce successful new products in a timely manner our competitive position and our results of operations will be negatively impacted. The process of developing new products is complex, costly and uncertain, and requires us to successfully integrate hardware, computer science biological and chemistry components. Furthermore, developing and manufacturing new products require us to anticipate customers’ needs and requirements and emerging technology trends accurately. In addition, our ability to introduce new products may be affected by patents and other intellectual property rights of others, protection of our intellectual property from others, integration of acquired technologies or products, results of our clinical studies, sufficient allocation of resources, and receipt of regulatory approvals or clearance. Any delay in the successful development, production, marketing or distribution of a new product in a timely manner could adversely and materially affect our competitive position, our branding, and our results of operations. Furthermore, we have been realigning and allocating resources to focus on improving our quality system, our product quality and our service quality, including resources that may otherwise have been dedicated to research and development for new products. Such allocation of our resources may negatively affect the timing for the release of new products. We are subject to laws regulating fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry and any failure to comply with such laws could materially and adversely affect our business and our results of operations. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws regulating fraud and abuse in the relevant industries, including the healthcare industry, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws. The Federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal health care program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. The definition of “remuneration” has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including, for example, gifts, discounts, the furnishing of free supplies, equipment or services, credit arrangements, payments of cash and waivers of payment. The recently enacted PPACA, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes. Arguably, a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the PPACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration could be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Many states have also adopted laws similar to the Anti-Kickback Statute. Some of these state prohibitions apply to referral of patients for health care items or services reimbursed by any payor, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and do not contain identical safe harbors. In addition, some states, such as California, Massachusetts and Vermont, mandate implementation of comprehensive compliance programs to ensure compliance with these laws. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 also created two new federal crimes: health care fraud and false statements relating to health care matters. The health care fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program, including private payors. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services. Another development affecting the health care industry is the increased use of the federal civil False Claims Act and, in particular, actions brought pursuant to the False Claims Act’s “whistleblower” or “qui tam” provisions. The False Claims Act imposes liability on any person or entity that, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal health care program. The qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act allow a private individual to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging that the defendant has submitted a false claim to the federal government, and to share in any monetary recovery. In addition, various states have enacted false claim laws analogous to the False Claims Act. Our future activities relating to the sale and marketing of our products may be subject to scrutiny under these laws. We are unable to predict whether we would be subject to actions under the False Claims Act or a similar state law, or the impact of such actions. However, the costs of defending any such claims, as well as any sanctions imposed, could significantly adversely affect our results of operations. Compliance with the requirements of federal and state laws pertaining to the privacy and security of health information may be time consuming, difficult and costly, and if we are unable to or fail to comply with such laws, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. We are subject to various privacy and security regulations, including but not limited to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009 (“HITECH”). HIPAA mandates, among other things, the adoption of standards relating to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information, which require the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect such information. Moreover, HITECH requires us to report certain breaches of unsecured, individually identifiable health information to the extent such breaches occur. In addition, many states have enacted comparable laws addressing the privacy and security of health information, some of which are more stringent than and are not preempted by HIPAA. Failure to comply with these laws can result in the imposition of significant civil and criminal penalties. The costs of compliance with these laws and the potential liability associated with the failure to comply with these laws could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. BEC 2010 FORM 10-K 17 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected if we do not prevail in present or future third party intellectual property litigation adverse to our products or if our patents or other intellectual property rights are challenged, invalidated, circumvented or expire. We cannot assure you that our products will be free of intellectual property rights of others or that a court will not find such products to infringe third party rights. Patent disputes are frequent, costly and may preclude or delay product commercialization. We may have to pay significant licensing fees to obtain access to third party intellectual property rights to make and sell current products or to introduce new products and cannot guarantee that such licenses will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We also cannot assure you that our issued patents will include claims sufficiently broad to prevent competitors from developing competing products or that pending patent applications will result in issued patents. Obtaining and maintaining patents is an iterative process with patent offices worldwide. Our patents may not protect us against competitors with similar products or technologies, because competing products or technologies may not infringe our patents. The enforcement of our issued patents requires the filing and prosecution of legal actions in countries around the world, and we cannot assure you that we will prevail in such actions. We rely on certain suppliers and manufacturers for raw materials, products and services, and fluctuations in the availability and price of such materials, products and services may interfere with our ability to meet our customers’ needs. Difficulty in obtaining raw materials and components for our products, especially in the rapidly evolving electronic components market, could affect our ability to achieve anticipated production levels. For some of our products we are dependent on a sole source or a small number of suppliers of finished products and of critical raw materials and components and our ability to obtain, enter into and maintain contracts with these suppliers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain, enter into or maintain all such contracts in the future. On occasion, we have been forced to redesign portions of products when a supplier of critical raw materials or components terminated its contract or no longer made the materials or components available. If we are unable to achieve anticipated production levels and meet our customers needs, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, our results of operations may be significantly impacted by unanticipated increases in the costs of labor, raw materials, freight, utilities and other items needed to develop, manufacture and maintain our products and operate our business. Suppliers also may deliver components or materials that do not meet specifications preventing us from manufacturing products that meet our design specifications or customer requirements. Consolidation of our customer base and the formation of group purchasing organizations could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Consolidation among health care providers and the formation of buying groups and, with respect to our international operations, government-sponsored tendering processes have put pressure on pricing and sales of our products, and in some instances, required payment of fees to group purchasing organizations or providing lower pricing in the tendering process. Our success in these areas depends partly on our ability to enter into contracts with integrated health networks and group purchasing organizations. If we are unable to enter into contracts with these group purchasing organizations and integrated health networks on terms acceptable to us or fail to have our pricing terms accepted in the tendering process, our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected. Even if we are able to enter into these contracts, or have our pricing terms accepted in the tendering process, they may be on terms that negatively affect our current or future profitability. Reductions in government funding and reimbursement to our customers could negatively impact our sales and results of operations. Many of our customers rely on government funding and on prompt and full reimbursement by Medicare and equivalent programs outside of the United States. In addition, our sales are affected by factors such as: • Level of government funding for clinical testing, biomedical research, bioterrorism, forensics, and food safety • Pharmaceutical company spending policies • Access to capital by biotechnology start ups A reduction in the amount or types of government funding or reimbursement that affect our customers, as well as the unavailability of capital to our Clinical Diagnostics and Life Science customers, could have a negative impact on our sales. Global economic uncertainty can result in lower levels of government funding or reimbursement. 18 BEC 2010 FORM 10-K Table of Contents Our international operations expose us to foreign currency exchange fluctuations. We operate a substantial portion of our business outside of the United States and are therefore exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which our foreign subsidiaries and dealers receive revenue and pay expenses. With a strengthening U.S. dollar, this exposure includes a negative impact on margins on sales of our products in foreign countries that are manufactured in the United States. We may enter into currency hedging arrangements in an effort to stabilize certain of these fluctuations. There are certain costs associated with these currency hedging arrangements, and we cannot be certain that such arrangements will have the full intended effect. Our currency exposures may not be hedged exposing us to losses on our assets and cash flows denominated in these currencies. Our dealers may experience slower payment terms from their customers or have trouble paying for the purchases due to a stronger U.S. dollar. Further, we are exposed to counter party risks in the event that our counterparties do not perform in accordance with the contract terms. Global market, economic and political conditions and natural disasters may adversely affect our operations and performance. Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide market economic and political conditions and their impact on levels of certain customer spending, which may deteriorate significantly in many countries and regions, including the United States, particularly in light of the current worldwide market disruptions and economic downturn, and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. For example, global political conditions and general economic conditions in foreign countries where we do significant business, such as the United States, France, Germany, India, Japan and China, could negatively impact our sales. These disruptions could adversely affect our customer’s ability to pay for products or purchase additional products. These conditions also may adversely affect our suppliers, which could cause disruptions in our ability to produce our products. In addition, economic and market volatility and disruption, such as the current worldwide market disruptions and economic downturn, may adversely affect the cost and availability of credit. Concern about market stability and counterparty strength may lead lenders and institutional investors to reduce or cease to provide funding to borrowers. Natural disasters could adversely affect our customers and our ability to manufacture and deliver products. Any of these market, economic, political factors, acts of terrorism, or natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products, our ability to manufacture, support and distribute products, our financial condition and operating results, and the terms of equity and debt capital and our ability to issue them. We are subject to risks associated with our global operations. We are a global business that generates approximately 54% of our total revenue outside the United States. This subjects us to a number of risks, including international economic, political and labor conditions, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities, unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements, failure of laws to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, inadequate local infrastructure and difficulties in managing and staffing international operations, delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions, transportation delays, operating in locations with a higher incidence of corruption and fraudulent business practices; and other factors beyond our control, including terrorism, war, natural disasters and diseases. By conducting a global business in the United States and many other countries, we must continually interpret, and then comply with, the income tax rules and regulations in these countries. Any failure to comply with, or to interpret correctly, such applicable rules and regulations could subject us to civil or criminal liabilities. In particular different interpretations of income tax rules and regulations as applied to our facts by applicable tax authorities throughout the world could result, either historically or prospectively, in adverse impacts to our worldwide effective income tax rates and income tax liabilities. Other factors that could impact our worldwide effective tax rates and income tax liabilities are: • Amount of taxable income in the various countries in which we conduct business • Tax rates in those countries • Income tax treaties between countries • Extent to which income is repatriated between countries • Changes in income tax rules and regulations • Adoption of new types of taxes such as consumption, sales and value added taxes Moreover, as a global company, we are subject to varied and complex laws, regulations and customs domestically and internationally. These laws and regulations relate to a number of aspects of our business, including trade protection, import and export control, data and transaction processing security, records management, gift policies, employment and labor relations laws, and other BEC 2010 FORM 10-K 19 Table of Contents regulatory requirements affecting our foreign operations. The application of these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear and may at times conflict. Compliance with these laws and regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in our business practices that result in reduced revenue and profitability. Non-compliance could also result in fines, damages, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. We incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our global operations and could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local laws and regulations, which may be substantially different from those in the United States. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by U.S. regulations applicable to us such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain aspects of our business operations, including those based in foreign countries where practices which violate such U.S. laws may be customary, will comply with our internal policies. Any such non-compliance, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and result in significant fines or penalties. Our investment of our pension plan assets in marketable securities is significant and is subject to market, interest rate and credit risk that may reduce its value and increase our liabilities. Within the pension plan assets, we maintain a significant portfolio of marketable securities as well as other assets subject to market fluctuations. Our earnings and stockholder’s equity could be adversely affected by changes in the value of this portfolio. In particular, the value of our investments may be adversely affected by general economic conditions, changes in interest rates, defaults and downgrades in the corporate bonds included in the portfolio and other factors. Each of these events may cause us to reduce the carrying value of our investment portfolio and may result in higher pension expense or our pension plans being further under-funded. Acquisitions and divestitures pose financial and other risks and challenges. We routinely explore acquiring other businesses and assets. From time to time, we also may consider disposing of certain assets, subsidiaries or lines of business. Potential acquisitions or divestitures present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention, difficulty with integrating different corporate cultures or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses, assumption of unknown liabilities, indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. There can be no assurance that we will engage in any acquisitions or divestitures or that we will be able to do so on terms that will result in any expected benefits. Acquisitions financed with borrowings could put financial stress on our earnings resulting in materially higher interest rates. If we are unable to recruit and retain key personnel our business may be materially and adversely impacted. Our business is also dependent on our ability to retain, hire and motivate talented, highly skilled personnel, including members of our management. Experienced personnel in our industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense. If we are unable to successfully attract and retain key personnel, our business may be harmed. Effective succession planning is also a key factor for our long-term success. Our failure to effectively transfer knowledge and effectuate smooth transitions with respect to our key employees could adversely affect our results and prospects. We are engaged in ongoing litigation and may be the subject of additional proceedings, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are currently involved in lawsuits initiated by our shareholders and similar litigation may be initiated against us. Additionally, we are subject to other legal and tax claims that arise from time to time. We cannot predict the outcome of any such proceedings or the likelihood that further proceedings will be instituted against us. We may not be successful in the defense of our current or future legal proceedings, which could result in settlements or damages that could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regardless of the merits of any claim, the continued maintenance of these legal proceedings may result in substantial legal expense and could also result in the diversion of our management’s time and attention away from our business. The consummation of the proposed merger with Danaher Corporation, and the completion of the tender offer for all of our outstanding shares, is subject to risks and uncertainties, including the satisfaction of specified conditions. As described under Item 1, Business—Company History, on February 6, 2011, Beckman Coulter, Danaher and Djanet Acquisition Corp., a Delaware corporation and an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Danaher (“Purchaser”), entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”), pursuant to which Danaher, through the Purchaser, agreed to commence an offer (the “Offer”) to acquire all of the outstanding shares of our common stock, par value $0.10 per share, for $83.50 per share in cash, without interest. The consummation of the transaction is subject to several conditions, including regulatory approvals. 20 BEC 2010 FORM 10-K Table of Contents We cannot predict whether the closing conditions to the Offer and those set forth in the Merger Agreement will be satisfied, and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement may be delayed or even abandoned before completion if certain events occur. If the conditions to the Offer or the Merger Agreement are not satisfied or waived, or if the transactions are not completed for any other reason, (i) the market price of our common stock could significantly decline, (ii) we will remain liable for expenses that we have incurred related to the transaction, including financial advisor and legal fees, and may be required to pay the approximately $165 million termination fee and (iii) we may experience substantial disruption in our sales, research and development, and operating activities, and the loss of key personnel, customers, suppliers and other third-party relationships, any of which could materially and adversely affect us and our business, operating results and financial condition. For further information on our pending transaction with Danaher, see Note 21 “Subsequent Events” of the Notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 