Item 1A. Risk Factors Important risk factors that could cause results or events to differ from current expectations are described below. These factors are not intended to be an all-encompassing list of risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance, development and results of the Company's business. Short-term consumer loan products have come under increased regulation and scrutiny. If changes in regulations affecting the Company's pawn, short-term loan, automotive finance and credit services businesses create increased restrictions, or have the effect of prohibiting loans in the countries and states where the Company offers short-term consumer loans, such regulations could materially reduce the Company's pawn, short-term loan, automotive finance and credit services businesses and limit its expansion into new markets. The Company's products and services are subject to extensive regulation and supervision under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations in both the United States and Mexico. The Company faces the risk that restrictions or limitations on loan amounts, loan yields and customer acceptance of loan products resulting from the enactment, change, or interpretation of laws and regulations in the United States or Mexico could have a negative effect o n the Company's business activities. In particular, short-term consumer loans, including cash and payday advances, have come under increased scrutiny and increasingly restrictive regulation in recent years. Some regulatory activity may limit the number of short-term loans that customers may receive or have outstanding and regulations adopted by some states require that all borrowers of certain short-term loan products be listed on a database, limiting the yield on short-term loans and limiting the number of such loans they may have outstanding. Certain consumer advocacy groups and federal and state legislators have also asserted that laws and regulations should be tightened so as to severely limit, if not eliminate, the availability of the short-term loan and credit services products to consumers, despite the significant demand for it. In Mexico, similar restrictions and regulations affecting the pawn industry, including limits on loan service fees, have been proposed from time to time. Adoption of such federal, state or local regulation or legislation in the United States and Mexico could restrict, or even eliminate, the availability of specialty consumer finance products at some or all of the Company's locations, which would adversely affect the Company's operations and financial condition. The Company's allowance for automotive finance and short-term loan credit losses may not be sufficient to cover actual credit losses which could adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. The Company has significant customer receivables arising from its buy-here/pay-here automotive finance operations and its short-term loan portfolios. The Company has to recognize losses resulting from the inability of certain borrowers to repay such receivables or loans and the insufficient realizable value of the collateral securing the loans. The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses in an attempt to cover credit losses inherent in its automotive finance and short-term loan portfolios. Additional credit losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than the Company has experienced to date. The allowance for credit losses is based primarily upon historical credit loss experience, with consideration given to delinquency levels, collateral values, economic conditions and underwriting and collection practices. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires estimates of material factors that may be susceptible to significant change. If the Company's assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect, its current allowance may not be sufficient and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in its loan portfolio. The failure of third-parties who provide products, services or support to the Company to maintain their products, services or support could disrupt Company operations or result in a loss of revenue. The Company's credit services revenues depend in part on the willingness and ability of an unaffiliated third-party lender to make loans to its customers. The loss of the relationship with this lender, and an inability to replace it with a new lender or lenders, or the failure of the lender to fund new loans and to maintain quality and consistency in its loan programs, could cause the Company to lose customers and substantially decrease the revenues and earnings of the Company's credit services business. In addition, the Company's lending and retail operations are dependent upon the Company's ability to maintain retail banking relationships with commercial banks. Media reports and public perception of short-term consumer loans, such as payday advances or pawn loans, as being predatory or abusive could materially adversely affect the Company's short-term loan, credit services and pawn businesses. In recent years, consumer advocacy groups and some media reports, in both the United States and Mexico, have advocated governmental action to prohibit or place severe restrictions on short-term consumer loans. The consumer advocacy groups and media reports generally focus on the cost to a consumer for this type of loan, which is higher than the interest typically charged by banks to consumers with better credit histories. Though the consumer advocacy groups and media reports do not discuss the lack of viable alternatives for our customers' borrowing needs, they do typically characterize these short-term consumer loans as predatory or abusive despite the large customer demand for these loans. If the negative characterization of these types of loans becomes increasingly accepted by consumers, demand for the short-term loan products could significantly decrease, which could materially affect the Company's results of opera tions and financial condition. Additionally, if the negative characterization of these types of loans becomes increasingly accepted by legislators and regulators, the Company could become subject to more restrictive laws and regulations that could materially adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company's growth is subject to external factors and other circumstances over which the Company has limited control or that are beyond the Company's control. These factors and circumstances could adversely affect the Company's ability to grow through the opening of new store locations. The success of this strategy is subject to numerous external factors, such as the availability of sites with favorable customer demographics, limited competition, acceptable regulatory restrictions and suitable lease terms, the Company's ability to attract, train and retain qualified unit management personnel and the ability to obtain required government permits and licenses. Some of these factors are beyond the Company's control. The failure to execute this expansion strategy would adversely affect the Company's ability to expand its business and could materially adversely affect its business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Increased competition from banks, savings and loans, other short-term consumer lenders, and other entities offering similar financial services, as well as retail businesses that offer products and services offered by the Company, could adversely affect the Company's results of operations. The Company has many competitors to its core lending and merchandise sales operations. The Company's principal competitors are other pawnshops, short-term loan companies, internet-based lenders, automotive retailers, consumer finance companies and other financial institutions that serve the Company's primary customer base. Many other financial institutions or other businesses that do not now offer products or services directed toward the Company's traditional customer base, many of whom may be much larger than the Company, could begin doing so. Significant increases in the number and size of competitors for the Company's business could result in a decrease in the number of short-term loans or paw n loans that the Company writes, resulting in lower levels of revenues and earnings in these categories. Furthermore, the Company has many competitors to its retail operations, such as retailers of new merchandise and automobiles, retailers of pre-owned merchandise and automobiles, other pawnshops, thrift shops, online retailers and online auction sites. Increased competition or aggressive marketing and pricing practices by these competitors could result in decreased revenues, margins and turnover rates in the Company's retail operations. In Mexico, the Company competes directly with certain pawn stores owned by a governmental entity. The government could take actions that would harm the Company's ability to compete in the Mexico market. A sustained deterioration of economic conditions could reduce demand for the Company's products and services and increase credit losses which would result in reduced earnings. A sustained deterioration in the economy could cause deterioration in the performance of the Company's pawn loan portfolios and in consumer demand for pre-owned merchandise such as that sold in the Company's pawnshops. While the credit risk for much of the Company's pawn lending is mitigated by the collateralized nature of pawn lending, a sustained deterioration in the economy could reduce the demand and resale value of pre-owned merchandise and reduce the amount that the Company could effectively lend on an item of collateral. Such reductions could adversely affect pawn loan balances, pawn loan redemption rates, inventory balances, inventory mixes and gross profit margins. An economic slowdown could result in an increase in loan defaults in our short-term loan products. During such a slowdown, the Company could be required to tighten its underwriting standards, which would reduce short-term loan balances, and could face more difficulty in collecting defaulted short-term loans, which could lead to an increase in loan losses. An economic slowdown could result in reduced automobile sales and an increase in loan defaults in our automotive finance product. During such a slowdown, the Company could be required to tighten its underwriting standards, which would reduce automobile sales, and could increase the amount of loans written-off. Adverse gold market fluctuations could affect the Company's profits. The Company holds significant gold inventories and a significant portion of its pawn receivables are secured by gold jewelry collateral. A significant decline in gold prices could result in decreased merchandise sales margins, decreased inventory valuations and sub-standard collateralization of outstanding pawn loans. In addition, a decline in gold prices could result in a lower balance of pawn loans outstanding for the Company, as customers would receive lower loan amounts for individual pieces of jewelry. Risks and uncertainties related to the Company's foreign operations could negatively impact the Company's operating results. The Company has a significant number of locations in Mexico, a country in which there are potential risks related to geo-political events, enforcement of property rights, governmental regulations, public safety and security among others. Actions or events could occur in Mexico that are beyond the Company's control, which could restrict or eliminate the Company's ability to operate its locations in Mexico or significantly reduce the profitability of such operations. In addition, the Company conducts a significant number of transactions in pesos, the national currency in Mexico, and holds significant financial assets that are denominated in pesos. Significant fluctuations in the value of the peso compared to the U.S. dollar could negatively impact the Company's operating results. The Company is dependent on the availability of used vehicle inventory and access to such inventory. Auto Master acquires vehicles primarily through auction wholesalers and new car dealers. There can be no assurance that sufficient inventory will continue to be available to the Company or will be available at comparable costs. Any reduction in the availability of inventory or increases in the cost of vehicles would adversely affect gross profit percentages as the Company focuses on keeping payments affordable to its customer base. The Company could have to absorb cost increases. A decreased demand for the Company's products and services and failure of the Company to adapt to such decrease could adversely affect results. Although the Company's products and services are a staple of its customer base, the demand for a particular product or service may decrease due to a variety of factors, such as the availability of competing products, changes in customers' financial conditions, or regulatory restrictions that reduce customer access to particular products. Should the Company fail to adapt to a significant change in its customers' demand for, or access to, its products, the Company's revenues could decrease significantly. Even if the Company does make adaptations, customers may resist or may reject products whose adaptations make them less attractive or less available. In any event, the effect of any product change on the results of the Company's business may not be fully ascertainable until the change has been in effect for some time. In particular, the Company has changed, and will continue to change, some of the short-term loan products and services it offers due to regulatory developments. Changes in the capital markets or the Company's financial condition could reduce available capital. The Company regularly accesses the debt capital markets to refinance existing debt obligations and to obtain capital to finance growth. Efficient access to these markets is critical to the Company's ongoing financial success; however, the Company's future access to the debt capital markets could become restricted due to a variety of factors, including a deterioration of the Company's earnings, cash flows, balance sheet quality, or overall business or industry prospects, a significant deterioration in the state of the capital markets or a negative bias toward the Company's industry by market participants. Inclement weather can adversely impact the Company's operating results. The occurrence of weather events, such as rain, cold weather, snow, wind, storms, hurricanes, or other natural disasters, adversely affecting consumer traffic and collection activities at the Company's stores and dealerships, could negatively impact the Company's operating results. Other risk factors are discussed under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Other risks that are indicated in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission may apply as well. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of December 31, 2007, the Company had no unresolved SEC staff comments. 