Item 1A. Risk Factors We face significant competition, and our failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. We face significant competition from many domestic and international manufacturers, with many of these companies participating in one or more parts of each of our markets. Some of these competitors are divisions or subsidiaries of corporations with substantial resources. We also compete with several companies that offer reagents, supplies and service for laboratory instruments that are manufactured by us or others. Our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected by loss of market share through aggressive competition, the rate at which new products are introduced by us and our competitors and the extent to which new products displace existing technologies and competitive pricing especially in areas where currency has an effect. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign regulations and compliance with these laws could cause us to incur substantial costs and adversely affect our results of operations. Our products and operations are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. A determination that our products or operations are not in compliance with these laws and regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties, prevent us from manufacturing or selling certain of our products, and cause us to incur substantial costs in order to be in compliance. In addition, changes to existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations, including the effect of potential health care reforms, also could prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products and cause us to incur substantial costs in order to come into compliance. The passage of potential health care reforms, changes in tax laws and their interpretation in the United States and other countries, the effect of taxes and changes in tax policy may also adversely affect our results of operations. We must continue to improve existing products and develop new products that meet the needs and expectations of our customers, or our business and results of operations will be adversely impacted. Our ability to continue to grow depends on our success in continuing to improve our existing products and develop new products that meet the needs and expectations of our customers. The improvement of existing products and development of new products requires that we successfully integrate hardware, software, and chemistry components. Consequently, the expected introductions of new products may be impacted by factors such as the complexity and uncertainty in the development of new high-technology products and the availability of qualified engineers, programmers, and other personnel in other key labor categories. New product introductions may also be impacted by the viability of supply partners for those products where we are a distributor. In addition, our ability to introduce new products and to continue marketing existing products may be affected by patents and other intellectual property rights of others, our ability to protect our intellectual property from others, the acquisition and integration of other companies and intellectual property and delays in obtaining any government marketing authorizations necessary to market the products, particularly with respect to clinical diagnostics products. Also, we may have to pay significant licensing fees to obtain access to third party intellectual property in order to make and sell current products or introduce new products. Factors affecting the introduction of molecular diagnostic products include the inability to develop clinical diagnostic tests based on new technologies, a determination that the tests do not provide sufficient precision and accuracy, identification of additional necessary intellectual property rights, failure to establish the clinical utility of these tests during clinical studies, and delays resulting from the timing and scope of regulatory agency reviews. 13 Table of Contents We rely on certain suppliers and manufacturers for raw materials and other products and fluctuations in the availability and price of such products and services may interfere with our ability to meet our customers’ needs. Difficulty in obtaining raw materials and components for our products, especially in the rapidly evolving electronic components market, could affect our ability to achieve anticipated production levels. For some of our products we are dependent on a small number of suppliers of finished products and of critical raw materials and components and our ability to obtain, enter into and maintain contracts with these suppliers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain, enter into or maintain all such contracts in the future. On occasion, we have been forced to redesign portions of products when a supplier of critical raw materials or components terminated its contract or no longer made the materials or components available. If we are unable to achieve anticipated production levels and meet our customers needs, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, our results of operations may be significantly impacted by unanticipated increases in the costs of labor, raw materials, freight, utilities and other items needed to develop, manufacture and maintain our products and operate our business. Consolidation of our customer base and the formation of group purchasing organizations could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. In recent years, consolidation among health care providers and the formation of buying groups has put pressure on pricing and sales of our products, and in some instances, required payment of fees to group purchasing organizations. Our success in these areas affected by consolidation depends partly on our ability to enter into contracts with integrated health networks and group purchasing organizations. If we are unable to enter into contracts with these group purchasing organizations and integrated health networks on terms acceptable to us, our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected. Reductions in government funding to our customers could have a negative impact on our sales and results of operations. Many of our biomedical research customers rely on government funding and a number of clinical diagnostics customers rely on prompt and full reimbursement by Medicare and equivalent programs in other countries. In addition, our life science sales are affected by factors such as: • the level of government funding for biomedical research, bioterrorism, forensics, and food safety; • pharmaceutical company spending policies; and • access to capital by biotechnology start ups. A reduction in the amount or types of government funding or reimbursement that affect our customers, as well as the unavailability of capital to our clinical diagnostics and biomedical research customers, could have a negative impact on our sales. We are exposed to foreign currency risks from our international operations. We operate a substantial portion of our business outside of the United States and are therefore exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which our foreign subsidiaries receive revenue and pay expenses. We may enter into currency hedging arrangements in an effort to stabilize the risk of such fluctuations. There are certain costs associated with these currency hedging arrangements and we cannot be certain that such arrangements will have the full intended effect. We are subject to general economic and political conditions and natural disasters in the United States and abroad. Global political conditions and general economic conditions in foreign countries in which we do significant business, such as France, Germany, Japan and China could have a negative impact on our sales. In addition, natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, could adversely affect our customers and our ability to manufacture and deliver products. Costs associated with our supply chain initiatives will affect earnings and results of operations. In January 2007, we announced plans to close our operations in Palo Alto, California by the end of 2008 and relocate those operations to Indianapolis, Indiana. We have announced several other relocation plans, including our recent announcement to consolidate our Orange County, California operations currently located in Fullerton and Brea. Plans for the consolidation are expected to be finalized in 2008. Our earnings and results of operations could be impacted by the scope and timing of the relocations and related charges and savings. 14 Table of Contents We are subject to various income tax risks and regulations throughout the world. By conducting business in the U.S. and many other countries, we must continually interpret, and then comply with, the income tax rules and regulations in these countries. Different interpretations of income tax rules and regulations as applied to our facts by us and applicable tax authorities throughout the world could result, either historically or prospectively, in adverse impacts to our worldwide effective income tax rates and income tax liabilities. Other factors which could impact our worldwide effective tax rates and income tax liabilities are (i) the amount of taxable income in the various countries in which we conduct business (ii) the tax rates in those countries (iii) income tax treaties between countries (iv) the extent to which income is repatriated between countries and (v) future changes in income tax rules and regulations, and (vi) the adoption of new types of taxes such as consumption, sales and value added taxes. Failure to successfully implement and manage our transition into our new ERP system could adversely affect our results of operations. We are in the process of implementing an enterprise resource planning system, or ERP system, in order to achieve a single, globally integrated infrastructure. This ERP system includes functionality for finance, human resources, supply chain, order management, finished goods inventory management, sales and service to replace or complement our existing legacy systems and business processes. Since the inception of the program in 2000 through December 31, 2007, we have capitalized $181.7 million of costs associated with this ERP system, which includes $64.2 million of capitalized internal labor costs and $11.7 million of capitalized interest. Based on our geographic rollout strategy, as of December 31, 2007, we have essentially implemented functionality for finance, human resources, accounts receivable management and certain purchasing systems for our global operations. Systems for finished goods inventory and physical distribution have been implemented for Europe and North America including the deployment of systems for sales, service and order management. Sales functionality was implemented in January 2007 for our U.S. and Canadian operations. We plan to implement additional systems to enhance the productivity of our supply chain organization, and expect that the majority of the work required to complete this phase of the global implementation of the new systems will take place through 2009. If we are unable to implement and effectively manage this migration or the deployment of the additional systems mentioned above, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The accounting for convertible debt securities is subject to uncertainty. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) recently published proposed Staff Position (“FSP”) No. APB 14-a “Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlements).” Under the proposed FSP, convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash including partial cash settlement would be separated into a debt and equity component. This change in methodology, if adopted, will negatively affect our earnings and earnings per share as interest expense would reflect the market rate of interest for nonconvertible debt instead of the coupon interest rate. The proposal, if adopted, would require retrospective application. We cannot predict if or when any such change would be implemented or the exact methodology that will be imposed (which may differ materially from the foregoing description). Any change in the accounting method for convertible debt securities could have an adverse impact on our past and future reported financial results which in turn could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and/or the trading price of the notes. Acquisitions and divestitures pose financial and other risks and challenges. We routinely explore acquiring other businesses and assets that would fit strategically. In addition, we may from time to time also consider disposing of certain assets, subsidiaries or lines of business that are less of a strategic fit within our portfolio. Potential acquisitions or divestitures present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses, assumption of unknown liabilities, indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. There can be no assurance that we will engage in any acquisition or divestitures or that we will be able to do so on terms that will result in any expected benefits. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 