Item 1A. Risk Factors. We face significant competition, and our failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. We face significant competition from many domestic and international manufacturers, with many of these companies participating in one or more parts of each of our markets. Some of these competitors are divisions or subsidiaries of corporations with substantial resources. We also compete with several companies that offer reagents, supplies and service for laboratory instruments that are manufactured by us or others. Our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected by loss of market share through aggressive competition, the rate at which new products are introduced by us and our competitors and the extent to which new products displace existing technologies and competitive pricing especially in areas where currency has an effect. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign regulations, and compliance with these laws or any new laws or regulations, including potential health care reform, could cause us to incur substantial costs and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our products and operations are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. A determination that our products or operations are not in compliance with these laws and regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties, prevent us from manufacturing or selling certain of our products and cause us to incur substantial costs in order to be in compliance. To varying degrees, compliance with these laws and regulations may: • Take a significant amount of time • Require the expenditure of substantial resources • Involve extensive clinical and pre-clinical testing • Involve modifications, repairs or replacements of our products • Result in limitations on the proposed uses of our products 16 BEC 2009 FORM 10-K Table of Contents In addition, changes to existing laws or regulations, including the effect of potential health care reforms, also could prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, reduce funding for government and academic research and cause us to incur substantial compliance costs. Our compliance costs include addressing our ongoing responsibilities under FDA regulations that apply to our products both before and after they are approved for distribution. If the FDA were to conclude that any of our products are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, or that we are not in compliance with applicable regulations, the FDA could: • Ban the product • Seize adulterated or misbranded products • Order a recall, repair or replacement of such product or a refund to the purchaser of the product • Require us to notify health professionals and others that the products present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health • Impose operating restrictions • Enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining to the products • Assess civil penalties against our company, officers or employees • Recommend criminal prosecution to the Department of Justice An adverse regulatory action could restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products. Foreign governmental regulations have become more common and stringent. We may become subject to more rigorous regulation by foreign governmental authorities in the future. Penalties for noncompliance with foreign regulation could be severe, including revocation or suspension of the ability to sell products in that country and criminal sanctions. As a result of the factors discussed above, domestic or foreign health care or tax laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business. Current healthcare reform changes, if adopted, may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The U.S. Administration has announced healthcare reform to be one of its priorities. Members of Congress have proposed major healthcare reform measures that, if adopted, could have a material impact on our business. There are pending proposals in both the House and Senate, each intended to institute substantial changes to the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers. Pending provisions, if adopted, could include imposition of a significant non-deductible fee on the medical device industry. If the proposals are passed by Congress, President Obama can either sign the legislation into law or veto it. We must continue to market and improve existing products and develop new products that meet customer needs and expectations or our business and results of operations will be adversely impacted. Our ability to continue to grow depends on our success in continuing to market and improve our existing products and develop new products that meet customer needs and expectations. Improving existing products and developing new products requires us to successfully integrate hardware, software and chemistry components. Consequently, the expected introductions of new products may be impacted by factors such as complexity and uncertainty in the development of new high-technology products and availability of qualified engineers, programmers and other key personnel. The viability of supply partners also may impact new product introductions for products we distribute. In addition, our ability to introduce new products and to continue marketing existing products may be affected by patents and other intellectual property rights of others, our ability to protect our intellectual property from others, the acquisition and integration of other companies and intellectual property and our ability to obtain regulatory approvals, including delays in obtaining any government marketing authorizations necessary to market the products, particularly with respect to Clinical Diagnostics products. Factors affecting the introduction of molecular diagnostic products include the inability to develop clinical diagnostic tests based on new technologies, a determination that the tests do not provide sufficient precision and accuracy, identification of additional necessary intellectual property rights, failure to establish the clinical utility of these tests during clinical studies and delays resulting from the timing and scope of regulatory agency reviews. BEC 2009 FORM 10-K 17 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected if we do not prevail in present or future third party intellectual property litigation adverse to our products or if our patents or other intellectual property rights are challenged, invalidated, circumvented or expire. We cannot assure you that our products will be free of intellectual property rights of others or that a court will not find such products to infringe third party rights. Patent disputes are frequent, costly and may preclude or delay product commercialization. We may have to pay significant licensing fees to obtain access to third party intellectual property rights to make and sell current products or to introduce new products and cannot guarantee that such licenses will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We also cannot assure you that our issued patents will include claims sufficiently broad to prevent competitors from developing competing products or that pending patent applications will result in issued patents. Obtaining and maintaining patents is an iterative process with patent offices worldwide. Our patents may not protect us against competitors with similar products or technologies, because competing products or technologies may not infringe our patents. The enforcement of our issued patents requires the filing and prosecution of legal actions in countries around the world, and we cannot assure you that we will prevail in such actions. We rely on certain suppliers and manufacturers for raw materials and other products, and fluctuations in the availability and price of such products and services may interfere with our ability to meet our customers’ needs. Difficulty in obtaining raw materials and components for our products, especially in the rapidly evolving electronic components market, could affect our ability to achieve anticipated production levels. For some of our products we are dependent on a small number of suppliers of finished products and of critical raw materials and components and our ability to obtain, enter into and maintain contracts with these suppliers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain, enter into or maintain all such contracts in the future. On occasion, we have been forced to redesign portions of products when a supplier of critical raw materials or components terminated its contract or no longer made the materials or components available. If we are unable to achieve anticipated production levels and meet our customers needs, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, our results of operations may be significantly impacted by unanticipated increases in the costs of labor, raw materials, freight, utilities and other items needed to develop, manufacture and maintain our products and operate our business. Suppliers also may deliver components or materials that do not meet specifications preventing us from manufacturing products that meet our design specifications or customer requirements. Consolidation of our customer base and the formation of group purchasing organizations could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. Consolidation among health care providers and the formation of buying groups has put pressure on pricing and sales of our products, and in some instances, required payment of fees to group purchasing organizations. Our success in these areas depends partly on our ability to enter into contracts with integrated health networks and group purchasing organizations. If we are unable to enter into contracts with these group purchasing organizations and integrated health networks on terms acceptable to us, our sales and results of operations may be adversely affected. Even if we are able to enter into these contracts, they may be on terms that negatively affect our current or future profitability. Reductions in government funding to our customers could negatively impact our sales and results of operations. Many of our customers rely on government funding and on prompt and full reimbursement by Medicare and equivalent programs outside of the United States. In addition, our sales are affected by factors such as: • Level of government funding for clinical testing, biomedical research, bioterrorism, forensics, and food safety • Pharmaceutical company spending policies • Access to capital by biotechnology start ups A reduction in the amount or types of government funding or reimbursement that affect our customers, as well as the unavailability of capital to our Clinical Diagnostics and biomedical research customers, could have a negative impact on our sales. Global economic uncertainty can result in lower levels of government funding or reimbursement. Our international operations expose us to foreign currency exchange fluctuations. We operate a substantial portion of our business outside of the United States and are therefore exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which our foreign subsidiaries and dealers receive revenue and pay expenses. With a strengthening U.S. dollar, this exposure includes a negative impact on margins on sales of our products in foreign countries that are manufactured in the United States. We may enter into currency hedging arrangements in an effort to stabilize certain of these fluctuations. There are certain costs associated with these currency hedging arrangements, and we cannot be certain that such arrangements will have the full intended effect. Our currency exposures may not be hedged exposing us to losses on our 18 BEC 2009 FORM 10-K Table of Contents assets and cash flows denominated in these currencies. Our dealers may experience slower payment terms from their customers or have trouble paying for the purchases due to a stronger U.S. dollar. Further, we are exposed to counter party risks in the event that our counterparties do not perform in accordance with the contract terms. The Olympus acquisition also exposes us to more risk related to variability in the Japanese Yen, because a portion of our manufacturing and R&D costs are now centered in Japan. Global market, economic and political conditions and natural disasters may adversely affect our operations and performance. Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide market economic and political conditions and their impact on levels of certain customer spending, which may deteriorate significantly in many countries and regions, including the United States, particularly in light of the current worldwide market disruptions and economic downturn, and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. For example, global political conditions and general economic conditions in foreign countries where we do significant business, such as the United States, France, Germany, India, Japan and China, could negatively impact on our sales. These disruptions could adversely affect our customer’s ability to pay for products or purchase additional products. These conditions also may adversely affect our suppliers, which could cause disruptions in our ability to produce our products. In addition, economic and market volatility and disruption, such as the current worldwide market disruptions and economic downturn, may adversely affect the cost and availability of credit. Concern about market stability and counterparty strength may lead lenders and institutional investors to reduce or cease to provide funding to borrowers. Natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, could adversely affect our customers and our ability to manufacture and deliver products. Any of these market, economic, political or natural disaster factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products, our ability to manufacture, support and distribute products, our financial condition and operating results, and the terms of equity and debt capital and our ability to issue them. Costs associated with our supply chain initiatives may disrupt operations and affect earnings and results of operations. We have announced several relocation plans, including our plan to vacate our Fullerton, California facility and consolidate those operations to other facilities. In connection with this consolidation and the related closure of our Fullerton, California site, we plan to relocate our data center in 2010. We also have initiated environmental studies of the Fullerton facility and could incur substantial costs in addition to those already estimated and recorded depending upon determination of the remediation requirements. We may experience difficulties, delays or unexpected costs and not achieve anticipated cost savings from our relocation and consolidation plans. The scope and timing of the relocations and related charges and savings could disrupt our operations and impact our earnings and results of operations. We are subject to various income tax risks and regulations throughout the world. By conducting business in the United States and many other countries, we must continually interpret, and then comply with, the income tax rules and regulations in these countries. Different interpretations of income tax rules and regulations as applied to our facts by us and applicable tax authorities throughout the world could result, either historically or prospectively, in adverse impacts to our worldwide effective income tax rates and income tax liabilities. Other factors that could impact our worldwide effective tax rates and income tax liabilities are: • Amount of taxable income in the various countries in which we conduct business • Tax rates in those countries • Income tax treaties between countries • Extent to which income is repatriated between countries • Future changes in income tax rules and regulations • Adoption of new types of taxes such as consumption, sales and value added taxes Our investment in marketable securities is significant and is subject to market, interest rate and credit risk that may reduce its value. Within the pension plan assets, we maintain a significant portfolio of marketable securities as well as other assets subject to market fluctuations. Our earnings and stockholder’s equity could be adversely affected by changes in the value of this portfolio. In particular, the value of our investments may be adversely affected by general economic conditions, changes in interest rates, downgrades in the corporate bonds included in the portfolio and other factors. Each of these events may cause us to reduce the carrying value of our investment portfolio and may result in higher pension expense or our pension plans being further under-funded. BEC 2009 FORM 10-K 19 Table of Contents Acquisitions and divestitures pose financial and other risks and challenges. We routinely explore acquiring other businesses and assets that would fit strategically. From time to time, we also may consider disposing of certain assets, subsidiaries or lines of business that are less of a strategic fit within our portfolio. Potential acquisitions or divestitures present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses, assumption of unknown liabilities, indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. There can be no assurance that we will engage in any acquisitions or divestitures or that we will be able to do so on terms that will result in any expected benefits. Acquisitions financed with borrowings could put financial stress on our earnings resulting in materially higher interest rates. The Olympus acquisition involves the integration of Olympus with our existing Clinical Diagnostics business. The integration of the two businesses that have previously operated separately is a costly and time-consuming process that involves a number of risks including: • Difficulties in assimilating different corporate cultures, practices and sales and distribution methodologies, as well as in assimilating and retaining geographically dispersed operations and personnel • Reliance on Olympus Corporation to provide certain transitional services, such as ongoing financial information and other data or support needed to successfully operate the Olympus business until we have completed the integration for these services • Larger foreign operations and increased exposure to risks relating to business operations outside the United States • Difficulties and unanticipated expenses related to integrating facilities, departments, systems, including accounting systems, computer and other technologies, books and records and procedures, as well as maintaining uniform standards, including internal accounting controls, procedures and policies • Difficulties in implementing anticipated infrastructure changes, which could offset any such savings and other synergies resulting from the Olympus acquisition • Costs and expenses associated with any undisclosed or potential liabilities • Use of cash resources and increased capital expenditures on integration and implementation activities in excess of our current expectations, which could offset any such savings and other synergies resulting from the Olympus acquisition Even if we successfully integrate the Olympus operations, we may be unable to realize our anticipated cost savings, synergies and growth from the integration in our expected time frame and the costs of achieving these benefits may be higher than expected. The Olympus operations are subject to their own risks, which we may not be able to manage successfully. There may be additional risks resulting from the Olympus acquisition that are not presently known to us which could adversely affect us. The results of Olympus operations are subject to many of the same risks that affect our financial condition and results of operations and, more specifically, those of our Clinical Diagnostics business. Any discovery of adverse information concerning Olympus after the closing of the acquisition could be material and, in many cases, we would have limited rights of recovery. The indemnification provided in the master purchase agreement may be insufficient to protect or compensate us for all losses resulting from the acquisition or Olympus’ prior operations. For example, under the terms of the master purchase agreement, indemnification is limited to certain subject matters and the maximum aggregate amount of such losses for which Olympus Corporation will indemnify us is, subject to certain exceptions, limited to 12.5% of the purchase price of Olympus. A material loss associated with the Olympus acquisition for which there is not adequate indemnification could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and industry reputation and reduce the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 