D. Risk Factors The following is a summary of certain risks and uncertainties which we face in our business. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with other cautionary statements which we make in this Annual Report and in our other public reports, registration statements and public announcements. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer significantly. We were not profitable in 2007 or in 2006 in any of our business segments. The e-commerce business unit has never been profitable. Except for 2002, we have been only marginally profitable in previous years, and we have had to rely on the sale of our common shares, and in the past on debt financing, to fund our business operations. With the exception of 2002, we have a history of losses and we have had to fund our operations through a combination of equity and debt financings. In 2007 we had revenues of $2,379,000 and operating expenses of $3,578,000, including cost of products sold of $87,000. In 2006 we had revenues of $1,989,000 and operating expenses of $3,652,000, including cost of products sold of $86,000. The net loss for 2007 was $1,306,000. The net loss for the 2006 was $1,734,000. If we are not successful in enhancing revenues through increased sales of our products and technologies or the development and marketing of additional products, or if there is a material increase in our expenses, we may be unable to achieve profitability in the future. As a result, we may have to rely on the sale of shares and on debt financings in the future to fund our operations. If we are unable to raise financing when and in the amount required, we may be required to cea se operations. If we do not demonstrate compliance with the minimum listing standards for continued quotation on the Nasdaq Capital Market our shares will become subject to delisting. At the date of this Annual Report, QSound is not in compliance with requirements for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market in that as of December 31, 2007 we do not have a minimum shareholders’ equity of $2,500,000, at least $35,000,000 market value of listed securities or at least $500,000 net income from continuing operations for the last fiscal year or two of the three most recently completed fiscal years. Upon determining that we are not in compliance, Nasdaq will notify us that we do not meet the listing requirements and we will have fifteen calendar days from the date of the notice to submit a plan to regain compliance. Nasdaq may in its discretion provide additional time, not to exceed in total 105 days from the date of the notice, to regain compliance. Most of our audio industry revenues come from a limited number of accounts and a significant change in the performance or a loss of these accounts would have a material effect on our revenues. The sources of our audio industry revenues are limited in number and a reduction in the performance, or expiration or termination, of any of these accounts, would have a material effect on our revenues and consequently, the company’s financial condition. In the event that we lose one or more of these accounts, our results of operation would suffer materially. Our audio revenues depend primarily on license fees and recurring royalties generated upon the sale of devices that incorporate our technology. As a result, we are highly dependent upon the sales efforts of the manufacturers of these products and market acceptance of their product offering. Our primary business in the audio business revolves around entering into license agreements with semiconductor and mobile device manufacturers who wish to incorporate our microQ audio engine technology into their products. Under most of these agreements, we generate revenue based on the number of units incorporating our microQ audio engine distributed by each manufacturer. Factors that contribute to performance of these products include, among others: · end-user demand; · timeliness, quality and pricing; · success or failure of distribution and commercialization efforts; 6 · competition from similar or substitute products; · manufacturing uncertainties; and · general or regional economic conditions. If these products do not meet the currently anticipated timeline or if these products are not widely accepted by consumers, our revenue stream may be delayed or may not materialize at all. As a consequence of the effect that these and similar factors may have on our licensees, customers and partners, we may from time to time experience significant fluctuations in our revenues. To succeed in the audio industry we must be able to identify emerging technological and market trends, to enhance our existing technologies and develop new technologies, and to achieve and maintain wide distribution. The audio industry is characterized by a number of factors including: · rapid technological changes; · short technology and product life cycles; · escalating pressure to provide improved audio solutions at increasingly lower prices; · frequent introduction of new technologies and products; and · development of audio enhancement technologies in-house by potential customers. It is important for us to be able to identify emerging trends in the mobile devices, consumer electronics, PC multimedia and Internet audio environments, and to enhance our existing technologies and develop new technologies and products to meet these continually changing market requirements. The development of our products and technologies must continue to focus on technological superiority over the offerings of our competitors while meeting the needs of our customers and potential customers, including competitive pricing and expeditious completion of development. Additionally, there must be sufficient consumer interest in and demand for enhanced audio to motivate our customers to use our products and technologies in their offerings. If we do not continue to develop premium new technologies and products timely and cost effectively, we will not be able to achieve profitability in the audio industry. The length and complexity of completing our audio licensing transactions can cause delays in generating additional revenues and prohibits us from accurately predicting future revenues. The licensing and implementation of our audio technologies tends to be a lengthy process due to a number of factors which may include: · complexity of technical issues; · need for considerable dedicated engineering resources; · time required to customize our technologies for specific platforms and customer requirements; · protracted license negotiation; and · changes required by the customer during the implementation process. Market entry of products using our technology may be delayed or even abandoned. We may also spend substantial time and management attention on potential license agreements that are not concluded or on licensee’s products that do not sell in large quantities As a result, we are not able to predict either the amount or the timing of our future revenues, or the results of our operations, with any degree of certainty. Some of our customers and potential customers in the audio industry have acquired or are acquiring their own in-house audio solutions. If we lose the opportunity to license to these companies, our audio business will suffer. 7 Some semiconductor companies that are or could become our customers have developed or acquired, or are in the process of developing or acquiring, their own in-house solutions for audio rendering and enhancement. If we do not develop technologically superior products and if we are unable to convince these companies that our products are not only superior and but also add value, we may lose these companies as customers and potential customers, resulting in a negative impact on our audio business. Many of our competitors have greater resources available to them. If we fail to compete effectively with our competitors, our results of operation and viability will be negatively impacted. The audio industry is intensely competitive. We have competitors who have technologies and products that are similar to ours and compete directly with us. Many of these competitors, including potential customers who develop competitive products in-house, are large, established companies with significantly greater resources than we have. If we are unable to develop and commercialize products that consumers view as superior to those of our competitors in terms of leading edge technology, performance, features, functions or price, among other elements, our results of operation will suffer. Telecommunications failures, computer viruses, breaches of security or terrorist attacks could disrupt our e-commerce business by reducing consumer confidence in the Internet as a means of communication and commerce. Internet communications are susceptible to interruptions resulting from factors including telecommunications failures, computer viruses, capacity limitations, breaches of security, terrorist attacks and vandalism. If one or a combination of these events causes consumers to lose confidence in the Internet as a means for communication or commerce, the growth of use of the Internet and reliance upon the Internet would be negatively impacted. Any shift of consumers away from the Internet would adversely impact sales of our e-commerce products. Our e-commerce revenues have declined in the past few years and we do not expect growth in this business. Our e-commerce revenues have declined in the past few years. Consolidation has become the principal method for acquiring new merchants, and we do not expect organic growth in our merchant base nor do we anticipate adding merchants through acquisition of competitors. Larger service providers may offer their products and services at reduced prices and we may have to adjust our prices accordingly. As new technologies are developed and introduced, our e-commerce products may become less attractive to small business merchants. Our products and technologies are based on our intellectual property. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property our business will suffer, and if we are sued for infringement by a third party we will incur significant legal expenses and may be required to pay substantial fees and/or cease using any such intellectual property. Our success depends largely on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies and to keep infringers from using and marketing our technologies. We rely upon U.S. and international patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. We also rely on contractual obligations such as non-disclosure agreements. Third parties may copy our technologies and we may be unable to prevent the sale of infringing products. Also, third parties may successfully develop products which compete with our products and which do not infringe our intellectual property rights. In addition, third parties may successfully assert that our technologies and products infringe their products and that our patents are invalid. Our business will suffer if we are not successful in defending our intellectual property, and we will incur significant legal expenses if we must defend third party infringement claims. In addition, we may be ordered to pay substantial penalties and/or cease using certain intellectual property if we are found to have infringed on the intellectual property rights of a third party. New equity financing would dilute current shareholders. If we raise funds through future equity financing, it will have a dilutive effect on existing holders of our shares by reducing their percentage ownership. The shares may be sold at a time when the market price is low because we need the funds. This will dilute existing holders more than if our stock price were higher. In addition, private equity financings normally involve shares sold at a discount to the current public market price. Our articles of incorporation allow us to issue an unlimited number of common and preferred stock. Therefore, there is no theoretical cap on the amount of dilution our investors may suffer in subsequent financings. 8 The market price of our common shares has been and continues to be volatile. The trading price of our common shares on the NASDAQ Capital Market has been and continues to be volatile. During the twelve months ending on February 28, 2008 our stock price has ranged from a high of $6.09 to a low of $1.75. The market price may be affected by announcements of, among other things: · new products by our competitors; · fluctuations in our operating results; · assertions of intellectual property infringement made by us against third parties or by third parties against us; and · changes in our financial position. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. A securities class action lawsuit against us, regardless of its merit, could result in substantial costs and divert the attention of our management from other business concerns, which in turn could have a materially adverse impact on our financial results. If we experience rapid growth and do not manage it effectively our business and financial results will suffer. If our technologies and products achieve wide acceptance we may experience rapid growth. We may have to hire more employees including additional management, improve our financial and control systems, and expand and manage our technical, sales and support services operations. We would need increased revenues and/or additional funding to operate these increased activities. If we do not manage our growth effectively our business and financial results will suffer. We depend on key employees and our business may suffer if we are not able to keep these employees or hire and train replacements. Our success depends on the skills, experience and performance of our senior management and certain other key personnel. We do not carry key personnel insurance on these employees. Experienced management and highly skilled engineers and software programmers are critical to the success of our business and are in high demand. We would suffer adverse effects if we are unable to successfully retain our key personnel, or hire and train suitable replacements. Some of our directors and officers may in the future have potential conflicts of interest between their positions with QSound and their positions as executives or directors of companies that are in the same industries in which we engage. Some of our officers and directors may in the future have conflicts of interest due to involvement as shareholders, officers, directors or partners of businesses that are engaged in the audio technology or e-commerce industries. These conflicts could include time and effort devoted to QSound, competition for customers and suppliers and interest in material contracts. Although our by-laws and our corporate legislation require disclosure of conflicts of interest, and our code of ethics prohibits such conflicts, should a conflict arise our business could be adversely affected. We are incorporated in Alberta, Canada, some of our directors and officers live in Canada, one of our directors lives in the United Kingdom, and most of our assets are in Canada, and investors may have difficulty initiating legal claims and enforcing judgments against us and our directors and officers. We are incorporated in the Province of Alberta, Canada. Certain of our directors and officers live in Canada, one of our directors lives in the United Kingdom, and most of our assets, and the assets of those officers and directors, are located in Canada or the United Kingdom. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of legal process within the United States upon directors and officers who are not United States residents. Also, there is uncertainty as to the enforceability in Canada, in original actions or for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities predicated upon U.S. federal or state securities laws. 