D. Risk Factors The following is a summary of certain risks and uncertainties which we face in our business. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with other cautionary statements which we make in this Annual Report and in our other public reports, registration statements and public announcements. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer significantly. 6 We were not profitable in 2005 or in 2004 in any of our business segments. The IP telephony and e-commerce business units have never been profitable. Except for 2002, we have been only marginally profitable in previous years, and we have had to rely on the sale of our common shares, and in the past on debt financing, to fund our business operations. With the exception of 2002, we have a history of losses and we have had to fund our operations through a combination of equity and debt financings. In 2005 we had revenues of $1,543,240 and operating expenses of $3,553,187, including cost of products sold of $179,781. The net loss for 2005 was $(2,550,708). In 2004 we had revenues of $2,213,178 and operating expenses of $4,174,154, including cost of products sold of $419,290. The net loss for the year was $(1,925,946). If we are not successful in enhancing revenues through increased sales of our products and technologies or the development and marketing of additional products, or if there is a material increase in our expenses, we may be unable to achieve profitability in the future. As a result, we may have to rely on the sale of shares and on debt financings in the future. If we are unable to raise financing when and in the amount required, we may be required to cease operatio ns. Most of our audio industry revenues come from a limited number of accounts and a significant change in the performance or a loss of these accounts would have a material effect on our revenues. The sources of our audio industry revenues are limited in number and a reduction in the performance, or expiration or termination, of any of these accounts, would have a material effect on our revenues and consequently, the company’s financial condition. In the event that we lose one or more of these accounts, our results of operation would suffer materially. Our audio revenues depend primarily on license fees generated upon the sale of devices that incorporate our technology. As a result, we are highly dependent upon the sales efforts of the manufacturers of these products and market acceptance of their product offering. Our primary business in the audio business revolves around entering into license agreements with semiconductor and handset manufacturers who wish to incorporate our microQ audio engine technology into their products. Under these agreements, we generate revenue based on the number of units incorporating our microQ audio engine produced by each manufacturer. Factors that contribute to performance of these products include, among others: · end-user demand; · timeliness, quality and pricing; · success or failure of distribution and commercialization efforts; · competition from similar or substitute products; · manufacturing uncertainties; and · general or regional economic conditions. If these products do not meet the currently anticipated timeline or if these products are not widely accepted by consumers, our revenue stream may be delayed or may not materialize at all. As a consequence of the effect that these and similar factors may have on our licensees, customers and partners, we may from time to time experience significant fluctuations in our revenues, even on a quarterly basis and as a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons for our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. To succeed in the audio industry we must be able to identify emerging technological and market trends, to enhance our existing technologies and develop new technologies, and to achieve and maintain wide distribution. The audio industry is characterized by a number of factors including: · rapid technological changes; · short technology and product life cycles; · escalating pressure to provide improved audio solutions at increasingly lower prices; 7 · frequent introduction of new technologies and products; and · development of audio enhancement technologies in-house by potential customers. It is important for us to be able to identify emerging trends in the mobile devices, PC multimedia, consumer electronics and Internet audio environments, and to enhance our existing technologies and develop new technologies and products to meet these continually changing market requirements. The development of our products and technologies must continue to focus on technological superiority over the offerings of our competitors while meeting the needs of our customers and potential customers, including competitive pricing and expeditious completion of development. Additionally, there must be sufficient consumer interest in and demand for enhanced audio to motivate our customers to use our products and technologies in their offerings. If we do not continue to develop premium new technologies and products timely and cost effectively, we will not be able to achieve profitability in the audio industry. Due to the rapid technological development in our field and changing regulatory and industry standards, our IP telephony technologies may become obsolete quickly. The IP telephony industry is characterized by rapid technological advances, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. Unless we continue development and improvement of our technologies to respond to advances in technology and changes in the regulatory landscape, our products may not be accepted by consumers or industry regulators. To keep pace with industry changes, we must continue to incur research and development costs which may not be offset by new and existing revenue streams. Our products incorporate technologies licensed from a number of third parties. If we are unable to maintain these licenses on favorable terms or we are unable to effectively integrate these technologies, our revenues will suffer. Our products incorporate a number of technologies licensed from third parties. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with these third parties on favorable terms or if we are unable to successfully integrate these technologies into our product line, we may need to revise our products, including by limiting product features or locating substitute technologies. Any modifications of our products would be costly and divert research and development efforts. As a result, our business and results of operations would suffer. If we fail to obtain product standard certification in particular countries we will be unable to sell our IP telephony products in such countries. Any such limitations would adversely impact our revenues and business prospects. Our IP telephony products must meet certain safety and radio-frequency emission standards. Products that connect to the telephone network must also meet certain standards aimed at protecting the network. Virtually all countries have developed their own sets of standards, which are not uniform. If we do not obtain certifications attesting that our products comply with the standards of the country where our equipment will be used, we will be unable to export our products to that country. Any such failure would adversely impact our revenues and business prospects. Telecommunications failures, computer viruses, breaches of security or terrorist attacks could disrupt our IP telephony and e-commerce businesses by reducing consumer confidence in the Internet as a means of communication and commerce. Internet communications are susceptible to interruptions resulting from factors including telecommunications failures, computer viruses, capacity limitations, breaches of security, terrorist attacks and vandalism. If one or a combination of these events causes consumers to lose confidence in the Internet as a means for communication or commerce, the growth of use of the Internet and reliance upon the Internet as an alternative to the telephone network would be negatively impacted. Any shift of consumers away from the Internet would adversely impact sales of our IP telephony and e-commerce products. Our e-commerce revenues have declined in the past few years and we do not expect growth in this business. Our e-commerce revenues have declined in the past few years. Consolidation has become the principal method for acquiring new merchants, and we do not expect organic growth in our merchant base nor do we anticipate adding merchants through acquisition of competitors. Larger service providers may offer their products and services at reduced prices and we may have to adjust our prices accordingly. As new technologies are developed and introduced, our e-commerce products may become less attractive to small business merchants. 8 Many of our competitors have greater resources available to them. If we fail to compete effectively with our competitors, our results of operation and viability will be negatively impacted. The audio, IP telephony and electronic commerce industries are intensely competitive. We have competitors in these industries who have technologies and products that are similar to ours and compete directly with us. Many of these competitors are large, established companies with significantly greater resources than we have. If we are unable to develop and commercialize products that consumers view as superior to those of our competitors in terms of leading edge technology, performance, features, functions or price, among other elements, our results of operation will suffer. Our products and technologies are based on our intellectual property. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property our business will suffer, and if we are sued for infringement by a third party we will incur significant legal expenses and may be required to pay substantial fees and/or cease using any such intellectual property. Our success depends largely on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies and to keep infringers from using and marketing our technologies. We rely upon U.S. and international patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. We also rely on contractual obligations such as non-disclosure agreements. Third parties may copy our technologies and we may be unable to prevent the sale of infringing products. Also, third parties may successfully develop products which compete with our products and which do not infringe our intellectual property rights. In addition, third parties may successfully assert that our technologies and products infringe their products and that our patents are invalid. Our business will suffer if we are not successful in defending our intellectual property, and we will incur significant legal expenses if we must defend third party infringement claims. In addition, we may be ordered to pay substantial penalties and/or cease using certain intellectual property if we are found to have infringed on the intellectual property rights of a third party. New equity financing would dilute current shareholders. If we raise funds through future equity financing, it will have a dilutive effect on existing holders of our shares by reducing their percentage ownership. The shares may be sold at a time when the market price is low because we need the funds. This will dilute existing holders more than if our stock price were higher. In addition, private equity financings normally involve shares sold at a discount to the current public market price. Our articles of incorporation allow us to issue an unlimited number of common and preferred stock. Therefore, there is no theoretical cap on the amount of dilution our investors may suffer in subsequent financings. The market price of our common shares has been and continues to be volatile. The trading price of our common shares on the NASDAQ SmallCap Market has been and continues to be volatile. During the twelve months ending on March 28, 2006 our stock price has ranged from a high of $ 4.86 to a low of $2.15. The market price may be affected by announcements of, among other things: · new products by our competitors; · fluctuations in our operating results; · assertions of intellectual property infringement made by us against third parties or by third parties against us; and · changes in our financial position. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. A securities class action lawsuit against us, regardless of its merit, could result in substantial costs and divert the attention of our management from other business concerns, which in turn could have a materially adverse impact on our financial results. If we experience rapid growth and do not manage it effectively our business and financial results will suffer. If our technologies and products achieve wide acceptance we may experience rapid growth. We may have to hire more employees including additional management, improve our financial and control systems, and expand and manage our technical, sales and support services operations. We would need increased revenues and/or additional funding to operate these increased activities. If we do not manage our growth effectively our business and financial results will suffer. 9 We depend on key employees and our business may suffer if we are not able to keep these employees or hire and train replacements. Our success depends on the skills, experience and performance of our senior management and certain other key personnel. We do not carry key personnel insurance on these employees. Experienced management and highly skilled engineers and software programmers are critical to the success of our business and are in high demand. We would suffer adverse effects if we are unable to successfully retain our key personnel, or hire and train suitable replacements. Some of our directors and officers may in the future have potential conflicts of interest between their positions with QSound and their positions as executives or directors of companies that are in the same industries in which we engage. Some of our officers and directors may in the future have conflicts of interest due to involvement as shareholders, officers, directors or partners of businesses that are engaged in the audio technology, IP telephony or e-commerce industries. These conflicts could include time and effort devoted to QSound, competition for customers and suppliers and interest in material contracts. Although our by-laws and our corporate legislation require disclosure of conflicts of interest, and our code of ethics prohibits such conflicts, should a conflict arise our business could be adversely affected. We are incorporated in Alberta, Canada, some of our directors and officers live in Canada, and most of our assets are in Canada, and investors may have difficulty initiating legal claims and enforcing judgments against us and our directors and officers. We are incorporated in the Province of Alberta, Canada. Certain of our directors and officers live in Canada, and most of our assets, and the assets of those officers and directors, are located in Canada. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of legal process within the United States upon directors and officers who are not United States residents. Also, there is uncertainty as to the enforceability in Canada, in original actions or for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities predicated upon U.S. federal or state securities laws. 