ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors should carefully consider the risks described below. The risks described below are not the only ones we face, and there are risks that we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial that may also impair our business operations. Any of these risks could harm our business. The trading price of our common stock could decline significantly due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our June 30, 2005 consolidated financial statements and related notes. Risks Relating to Our Business We face intense competition in all of the markets for our products and services; our operating results will be adversely affected if we cannot compete effectively against other companies. As described in more detail in the section entitled “Competition,” the markets for our products and services are characterized by intense competition and pricing pressures and rapid technological change. We compete with businesses having substantially greater financial, research and development, manufacturing, marketing, and other resources. If we are not able to continually design, manufacture, and successfully introduce new or enhanced products or services that are comparable or superior to those provided by our competitors and at comparable or better prices, we could experience pricing pressures and reduced sales, profit margins, profits, and market share, each of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Difficulties in estimating customer demand in our products segment could harm our profit margins. Orders from our distributors and other distribution participants are based on demand from end-users. Prospective end-user demand is difficult to measure. This means that our revenues in any fiscal quarter could be adversely impacted by low end-user demand, which could in turn negatively affect orders we receive from distributors and dealers. Our expectations for both short- and long-term future net revenues are based on our own estimates of future demand. Revenues for any particular time period are difficult to predict with any degree of certainty. We usually ship products within a short time after we receive an order; so consequently, unshipped backlog has not been a good indicator of future revenues. We believe that the current level of backlog will fluctuate dependent in part on our ability to forecast revenue mix and to plan our manufacturing accordingly. A significant portion of our customers’ orders are received in the last month of the quarter. We budget the amount of our expenses based on our revenue estimates. If our estimates of sales are not accurate and we experience unforeseen variability in our revenues and operating results, we may be unable to adjust our expense levels accordingly and our profit margins will be adversely affected. Our profitability may be adversely affected by our continuing dependence on our distribution channels. We market our products primarily through a network of distributors who in turn sell our products to systems integrators, dealers, and value-added resellers. All of our agreements with such distributors and other distribution participants are non-exclusive, terminable at will by either party and generally short-term. No assurances can be given that any or all such distributors or other distribution participants will continue their relationship with us. Distributors and to a lesser extent systems integrators, dealers, and value-added resellers cannot easily be replaced and the loss of revenues and our inability to reduce expenses to compensate for the loss of revenues could adversely affect our net revenues and profit margins. Although we rely on our distribution channels to sell our products, our distributors and other distribution participants are not obligated to devote any specified amount of time, resources, or efforts to the marketing of our products or to sell a specified number of our products. There are no prohibitions on distributors or other resellers offering products that are competitive with our products and most do offer competitive products. The support of our products by distributors and other distribution participants may depend on the competitive strength of our products and the price incentives we offer for their support. If our distributors and other distribution participants are not committed to our products, our revenues and profit margins may be adversely affected. 17 We depend on an outsourced manufacturing strategy. In August 2005, we entered into a manufacturing agreement with a domestic manufacturing services provider, to be the exclusive manufacturer of substantially all the products that were previously manufactured at our Salt Lake City, Utah manufacturing facility. This manufacturer is currently the primary manufacturer of substantially all of our products, except our MAX® product line and our furniture product line, and if this manufacturer experiences difficulties in obtaining sufficient supplies of components, component prices become unreasonable, an interruption in its operations, or otherwise suffers capacity constraints, we would experience a delay in shipping these products which would have a negative impact on our revenues. Currently, we have no second source of manufacturing for substantially all of our products. We have an agreement with an international manufacturer for the manufacture of our MAX® product line. We use a facility in China. Should there be any disruption in services due to natural disaster, economic or political difficulties in China, quarantines or other restrictions associated with infectious diseases, or other similar events, or any other reason, such disruption would have a material adverse effect on our business. A delay in shipping these products due to an interruption in the manufacturer’s operations would have a negative impact on our revenues. Operating in the international environment exposes us to certain inherent risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs, and potentially adverse tax consequences, which could materially affect our results of operations. Product obsolescence could harm demand for our products and could adversely affect our revenues and our results of operations. Our industry is subject to rapid and frequent technological innovations that could render existing technologies in our products obsolete and thereby decrease market demand for such products. If any of our products become slow-moving or obsolete and the recorded value of our inventory is greater than its market value, we will be required to write-down the value of our inventory to its fair market value, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In limited circumstances, we are required to purchase components that our outsourced manufacturers use to produce and assemble our products. Should technological innovations render these components obsolete, we will be required to write-down the value of this inventory, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Product development delays or defects could harm our competitive position and reduce our revenues. We have, in the past, and may again experience, technical difficulties and delays with the development and introduction of new products. Many of the products we develop contain sophisticated and complicated components and utilize manufacturing techniques involving new technologies. Potential difficulties in the development process that could be experienced by us include difficulty in: · meeting required specifications and regulatory standards; · meeting market expectations for performance; · hiring and keeping a sufficient number of skilled developers; · having the ability to identify problems or product defects in the development cycle; and · achieving necessary manufacturing efficiencies. Once new products reach the market, they may have defects, which could adversely affect market acceptance of these products and our reputation. If we are not able to manage and minimize such potential difficulties, our business could be negatively affected. 18 If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or have insufficient proprietary rights, our business would be materially impaired. We currently rely primarily on a combination of trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, patents, and nondisclosure agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products. No assurances can be given that others will not independently develop similar technologies, or duplicate or design around aspects of our technology. In addition, we cannot assure that any patent or registered trademark owned by us will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights. We believe our products and other proprietary rights do not infringe upon any proprietary rights of third parties; however, we cannot assure that third parties will not assert infringement claims in the future. Our industry is characterized by vigorous protection of intellectual property rights. Such claims and litigation are expensive and could divert management’s attention, regardless of their merit. In the event of a claim, we might be required to license third-party technology or redesign our products, which may not be possible or economically feasible. We currently hold only a limited number of patents. To the extent that we have patentable technology for which we have not filed patent applications, others may be able to use such technology or even gain priority over us by patenting such technology themselves. International sales account for a significant portion of our net revenue and risks inherent in international sales could harm our business. International sales represent a significant portion of our total product sales. For example, international sales represented 25.9 percent of our total product sales for fiscal 2005, 22.7 percent for fiscal 2004, and 32.3 percent for fiscal 2003. We anticipate that the portion of our total product revenue from international sales will continue to increase as we further enhance our focus on developing new products, establishing new distribution partners, strengthening our presence in key growth areas, and improving product localization with country-specific product documentation and marketing materials. Our international business is subject to the financial and operating risks of conducting business internationally, including: · unexpected changes in, or the imposition of, additional legislative or regulatory requirements; · fluctuating exchange rates; · tariffs and other barriers; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales operations; · import and export restrictions; · greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection and longer payment cycles; · potentially adverse tax consequences; · potential hostilities and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; · disruption in services due to natural disaster, economic or political difficulties, quarantines, or other restrictions associated with infectious diseases. Our sales in the international market are denominated in U.S. Dollars, with the exception of sales through our wholly owned subsidiary, OM Video, whose sales were denominated in Canadian Dollars until March 4, 2005, when the subsidiary was sold to a third party. Consolidation of OM Video’s financial statements with ours, under U.S. GAAP, required remeasurement of the amounts stated in OM Video’s financial statements to U.S. Dollars, which was subject to exchange rate fluctuations. We did not undertake hedging activities that might have protected us against such risks. 19 We may not be able to hire and retain highly skilled employees, which could affect our ability to compete effectively and may cause our revenue and profitability to decline. We depend on highly skilled technical personnel to research and develop, market, and service new and existing products. To succeed, we must hire and retain employees who are highly skilled in the rapidly changing communications and Internet technologies. Individuals who have the skills and can perform the services we need to provide our products and services are in great demand. Because the competition for qualified employees in our industry is intense, hiring and retaining employees with the skills we need is both time-consuming and expensive. We might not be able to hire enough skilled employees or retain the employees we do hire. Our inability to hire and retain employees with the skills we seek could hinder our ability to sell our existing products, systems, or services or to develop new products, systems, or services with a consequent adverse effect on our business. Our reliance on third-party technology or license agreements. We have licensing agreements with various suppliers for software and hardware incorporated into our products. These third-party licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The termination or impairment of these licenses could result in delays of current product shipments or delays or reductions in new product introductions until equivalent designs could be developed, licensed, and integrated, if at all possible, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our sales depend to a certain extent on government funding and regulation. In the audio conferencing products market, the revenues generated from sales of our audio conferencing products for distance learning and courtroom facilities are dependent on government funding. In the event government funding for such initiatives was reduced or became unavailable, our sales could be negatively impacted. Additionally, many of our products are subject to governmental regulations. New regulations could significantly impact sales in an adverse manner. Environmental laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant costs and impact on revenue The European Parliament has published a directive on the Restriction on Use of Hazardous Substances Directive (the “RoHS Directive”), which restricts the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment beginning July 1, 2006. In order to comply with this directive, it has become necessary to re-design the majority of our product line and switch over to components that do not contain the restricted substances, such as lead, mercury, and cadmium. This process involves procurement of the new compliant components, engineering effort to integrate and test them, and re-submitting the products for emissions, safety and telephone line interface compliance testing and approval. This effort has consumed resources and time that would otherwise have been spent on new product development, which will continue until the product line has been updated. In addition, because this has essentially become a worldwide issue for all electronics manufacturers who wish to sell into the European market, we have seen increased lead times for compliant components because of the increased demand. This is an issue that is not unique to ClearOne. The European Parliament has also published a directive on Electronic and Electrical Waste Management (the “WEEE Directive”), which makes producers of certain electrical and electronic equipment financially responsible for collection, reuse, recycling, treatment, and disposal of equipment placed on the European Union market after August 13, 2005. We are currently compliant in terms of the labeling requirements, and have finalized the recycling processes with the appropriate entities within Europe. According to the directive, distributors of our product are deemed producers and must comply with this directive by contracting with a recycler for the recovery, recycling, and reuse of product. We may have difficulty in collecting outstanding receivables. We grant credit without requiring collateral to substantially all of our customers. In times of economic uncertainty, the risks relating to the granting of such credit would typically increase. Although we monitor and mitigate the risks associated with our credit policies, we cannot ensure that such mitigation will be effective. We have experienced losses due to customers failing to meet their obligations. Future losses could be significant and, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 20 Interruptions to our business could adversely affect our operations. As with any company, our operations are at risk of being interrupted by earthquake, fire, flood, and other natural and human-caused disasters, including terrorist attacks and disease. Our operations are also at risk of power loss, telecommunications failure, and other infrastructure and technology based problems. To help guard against such risks, we carry business interruption loss insurance with coverage of up to $5.4 million to help compensate us for losses that may occur. Risks Relating to Our Company Our stock price fluctuates as a result of the conduct of our business and stock market fluctuations. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by a variety of factors, including: · statements or changes in opinions, ratings, or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to the market in which we do business or relating to us specifically; · disparity between our reported results and the projections of analysts; · the shift in sales mix of products that we currently sell to a sales mix of lower-margin product offerings; · the level and mix of inventory levels held by our distributors; · the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; · technological innovations by us or our competitors; · quarterly variations in our results of operations; · general market conditions or market conditions specific to technology industries; · domestic and international economic conditions; · the adoption of the new accounting standard, SFAS 123R, “Share-Based Payments” which will require us to record compensation expense for certain options issued under our “1998 Stock Option Plan” before July 1, 2005 and for all options issued or modified after June 30, 2005; · our ability to report financial information in a timely manner; and · the markets in which our stock is traded. Many of our officers and key personnel have recently joined the company or have only worked together for a short period of time. We have recently made several significant changes to our senior management team. In July 2004, we named a new President and Chief Executive Officer, who had been serving as our Vice-President of Product Development since December 2003. In addition, we hired a new Chief Financial Officer in July 2004, a Vice-President of Worldwide Sales and Marketing in November 2004, and a Vice-President of Operations in January 2005. In January 2005, we named a new Vice-President of Product Line Management, who had been serving as our Director of Research and Development. In September 2005, our Chief Financial Officer resigned his position and our Corporate Controller was named our Interim Chief Financial Officer. In February 2006, we eliminated the position of Vice-President of Human Resources. As a result of these recent changes in senior management, many of our officers and other key personnel have only worked together for a short period of time. The failure to successfully integrate senior management could have an adverse impact on our business operations, including reduced sales, confusion with our channel partners, and delays in new product introductions. 21 Our directors and officers own 18.2 percent of the Company and may exert significant influence over us. Our officers and directors together have beneficial ownership of approximately 18.2 percent of our common stock (including options that are currently exercisable or exercisable within 60 days of February 28, 2006). With this significant holding in the aggregate, the officers and directors, acting together, could exert a significant degree of influence over us and may be able to delay or prevent a change in control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 