ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors should carefully consider the risks described below. The risks described below are not the only ones we face and there are risks that we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial that may also impair our business operations. Any of these risks could harm our business. The trading price of our common stock could decline significantly due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our June 30, 2006 consolidated financial statements and related notes. Risks Relating to Our Business We face intense competition in all markets for our products and services; our operating results will be adversely affected if we cannot compete effectively against other companies. As described in more detail in the section entitled “Competition,” the markets for our products and services are characterized by intense competition and pricing pressures and rapid technological change. We compete with businesses having substantially greater financial, research and product development, manufacturing, marketing, and other resources. If we are not able to continually design, manufacture, and successfully introduce new or enhanced products or services that are comparable or superior to those provided by our competitors and at comparable or better prices, we could experience pricing pressures and reduced sales, gross profit margins, profits, and market share, each of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Difficulties in estimating customer demand in our products segment could harm our profit margins. Orders from our distributors and other distribution participants are based on demand from end-users. Prospective end-user demand is difficult to measure. This means that our revenues in any fiscal quarter could be adversely impacted by low end-user demand, which could in turn negatively affect orders we receive from distributors and dealers. Our expectations for both short- and long-term future net revenues are based on our own estimates of future demand. Revenues for any particular time period are difficult to predict with any degree of certainty. We usually ship products within a short time after we receive an order; so consequently, unshipped backlog has not been a good indicator of future revenues. We believe that the current level of backlog will fluctuate dependent in part on our ability to forecast revenue mix and plan our manufacturing accordingly. A significant portion of our customers’ orders are received in the last month of the quarter. We budget the amount of our expenses based on our revenue estimates. If our estimates of sales are not accurate and we experience unforeseen variability in our revenues and operating results, we may be unable to adjust our expense levels accordingly and our gross profit and results of operations will be adversely affected. Higher inventory levels or stock shortages may also result from difficulties in estimating customer demand. Our sales depend to a certain extent on government funding and regulation. In the audio conferencing products market, the revenues generated from sales of our audio conferencing products for distance learning and courtroom facilities are dependent on government funding. In the event government funding for such initiatives was reduced or became unavailable, our sales could be negatively impacted. Additionally, many of our products are subject to governmental regulations. New regulations could significantly impact sales in an adverse manner. Environmental laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant costs and impact on revenue New regulations regarding the materials used in manufacturing, the process of disposing of electronic equipment, and the efficient use of energy have emerged in the last few years. The first implementations of these regulations have taken place in Europe and have required significant effort from ClearOne to comply. Other countries and U.S. states are currently considering similar regulations, which could require additional resources and effort from ClearOne to comply. 16 The European Parliament has published the RoHS Directive, which restricts the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment beginning July 1, 2006. In order to comply with this directive, it has become necessary to re-design the majority of our products and switch over to components that do not contain the restricted substances, such as lead, mercury, and cadmium. This process involves procurement of the new compliant components, engineering effort to design, develop, test, and validate them, and re-submitting these re-designed products for multiple country emissions, safety, and telephone line interface compliance testing and approvals. This effort has consumed resources and time that would otherwise have been spent on new product development, which will continue until the products have been updated. To date, certain of our products have not been re-designed and are therefore not-compliant with these environmental laws and regulations. Accordingly, sales into the European market beginning July 1, 2006 may be negatively impacted and our results of operations could suffer. We anticipate that most of these product re-designs and launches will be completed during the first half of fiscal 2007. Additionally, certain of our products will not be re-designed. Our outsourced manufacturers may hold us responsible for the cost of purchased components that become obsolete as a result of these re-design efforts. To the extent that we cannot manage these potential exposures to our current estimates, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. In addition, because this has essentially become a worldwide issue for all electronics manufacturers who wish to sell into the European market, we have seen increased lead times for compliant components because of the increased demand. This is an issue that is not unique to ClearOne, but also applies to many manufacturers exporting products to the European Union. The European Parliament has also published the WEEE Directive, which makes producers of certain electrical and electronic equipment financially responsible for collection, reuse, recycling, treatment, and disposal of equipment placed on the European Union market after August 13, 2005. We are currently compliant in terms of the labeling requirements and have finalized the recycling processes with the appropriate entities within Europe. According to our understanding of the directive, distributors of our product are deemed producers and must comply with this directive by contracting with a recycler for the recovery, recycling, and reuse of product. The California law regarding efficient use of energy goes into effect in July 2007 and will require re-design of power supplies in order to comply. ClearOne has already begun this effort. Product development delays or defects could harm our competitive position and reduce our revenues. We have, in the past, and may again experience, technical difficulties and delays with the development and introduction of new products. Many of the products we develop contain sophisticated and complicated circuitry and components, and utilize manufacturing techniques involving new technologies. Potential difficulties in the development process that could be experienced by us include difficulty in: · meeting required specifications and regulatory standards; · meeting market expectations for performance; · hiring and keeping a sufficient number of skilled developers; · obtaining prototype products at anticipated cost levels; · having the ability to identify problems or product defects in the development cycle; and · achieving necessary manufacturing efficiencies. Once new products reach the market, they may have defects, or may be met by unanticipated new competitive products, which could adversely affect market acceptance of these products and our reputation. If we are not able to manage and minimize such potential difficulties, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. Our profitability may be adversely affected by our continuing dependence on our distribution channels. We market our products primarily through a network of distributors who in turn sell our products to systems integrators, dealers, and value-added resellers. All of our agreements with such distributors and other distribution participants are non-exclusive, terminable at will by either party and generally short-term. No assurances can be given that any or all such distributors or other distribution participants will continue their relationship with us. Distributors and to a lesser extent systems integrators, dealers, and value-added resellers cannot easily be replaced and the loss of revenues and our inability to reduce expenses to compensate for the loss of revenues could adversely affect our net revenues and profit margins. 17 Although we rely on our distribution channels to sell our products, our distributors and other distribution participants are not obligated to devote any specified amount of time, resources, or efforts to the marketing of our products or to sell a specified number of our products. There are no prohibitions on distributors or other resellers offering products that are competitive with our products and most do offer competitive products. The support of our products by distributors and other distribution participants may depend on the competitive strength of our products and the price incentives we offer for their support. If our distributors and other distribution participants are not committed to our products, our revenues and profit margins may be adversely affected. Reporting of channel inventory by certain distributors. We defer recognition of revenue from product sales to distributors until the return privilege has expired, which approximates when product is sold-through to customers of our distributors. We evaluate, at each quarter-end, the inventory in the channel through information provided by certain of our distributors. We use this information along with our judgment and estimates to determine the amount of inventory in the entire channel, for all customers and for all inventory items, and the appropriate revenue and cost of goods sold associated with those channel products. We cannot guarantee that the third party data, as reported, or that our assumptions and judgments regarding total channel inventory revenue and cost of goods sold will be accurate. We depend on an outsourced manufacturing strategy. In August 2005, we entered into a manufacturing agreement with a manufacturing services provider, to be the exclusive manufacturer of substantially all the products that were previously manufactured at our Salt Lake City, Utah manufacturing facility. This manufacturer is currently the primary manufacturer of many of our products. We also have an agreement with an offshore manufacturer for the manufacture of other product lines. Additionally, in July 2006, we outsourced the manufacturing of our furniture product lines to two manufacturers. If these manufacturers experience difficulties in obtaining sufficient supplies of components, component prices significantly exceed anticipated costs, an interruption in their operations, or otherwise suffer capacity constraints, we would experience a delay in shipping these products which would have a negative impact on our revenues. Should there be any disruption in services due to natural disaster, economic or political difficulties, quarantines, transportation restrictions, acts of terror, or other restrictions associated with infectious diseases, or other similar events, or any other reason, such disruption would have a material adverse effect on our business. Operating in the international environment exposes us to certain inherent risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs, and potentially adverse tax consequences, which could materially affect our results of operations. Currently, we have no second source of manufacturing for substantially all of our products. The cost of delivered product from our contract manufacturers is a direct function of their ability to buy components at a competitive price and to realize efficiencies and economies of scale within their overall business structure. If they are unsuccessful in driving efficient cost models, our delivered costs could rise, affecting our profitability and ability to compete. In addition, if the contract manufacturers are unable to achieve greater operational efficiencies, delivery schedules for new product development and current product delivery could be negatively impacted. Product obsolescence could harm demand for our products and could adversely affect our revenues and our results of operations. Our industry is subject to rapid and frequent technological innovations that could render existing technologies in our products obsolete and thereby decrease market demand for such products. If any of our products become slow-moving or obsolete and the recorded value of our inventory is greater than its market value, we will be required to write down the value of our inventory to its fair market value, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In limited circumstances, we are required to purchase components that our outsourced manufacturers use to produce and assemble our products. Should technological innovations render these components obsolete, we will be required to write down the value of this inventory, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 18 If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or have insufficient proprietary rights, our business would be materially impaired. We currently rely primarily on a combination of trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, patents, patents pending, and nondisclosure agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products. No assurances can be given that others will not independently develop similar technologies, or duplicate or design around aspects of our technology. In addition, we cannot assure that any patent or registered trademark owned by us will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights. We believe our products and other proprietary rights do not infringe upon any proprietary rights of third parties; however, we cannot assure that third parties will not assert infringement claims in the future. Our industry is characterized by vigorous protection of intellectual property rights. Such claims and the resulting litigation are expensive and could divert management’s attention, regardless of their merit. In the event of a claim, we might be required to license third-party technology or redesign our products, which may not be possible or economically feasible. We currently hold only a limited number of patents. To the extent that we have patentable technology for which we have not filed patent applications, others may be able to use such technology or even gain priority over us by patenting such technology themselves. International sales account for a significant portion of our net revenue and risks inherent in international sales could harm our business. International sales represent a significant portion of our total product sales. For example, international sales represented 28.5 percent of our total product sales from continuing operations for fiscal 2006, 25.9 percent for fiscal 2005, and 22.7 percent for fiscal 2004. We anticipate that the portion of our total product revenue from international sales will continue to increase as we further enhance our focus on developing new products, establishing new distribution partners, strengthening our presence in key growth areas, and improving product localization with country-specific product documentation and marketing materials. Our international business is subject to the financial and operating risks of conducting business internationally, including: · unexpected changes in, or the imposition of, additional legislative or regulatory requirements; · unique environmental regulations; · fluctuating exchange rates; · tariffs and other barriers; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales operations; · import and export restrictions; · greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection and longer payment cycles; · potentially adverse tax consequences; · potential hostilities and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; · disruption in services due to natural disaster, economic or political difficulties, quarantines, transportation, or other restrictions associated with infectious diseases. Our revenues in the international market are generally denominated in U.S. Dollars, with the exception of sales through our wholly owned subsidiary, OM Video, whose sales were denominated in Canadian Dollars until March 4, 2005, when the subsidiary was sold to a third party. Consolidation of OM Video’s financial statements with ours, under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”), required remeasurement of the amounts stated in OM Video’s financial statements to U.S. Dollars, which was subject to exchange rate fluctuations. We do not undertake hedging activities that protect us against such risks. 19 We may not be able to hire and retain qualified key and highly-skilled technical employees, which could affect our ability to compete effectively and may cause our revenue and profitability to decline. We depend on our ability to hire and retain qualified key and highly-skilled employees to manage, research and develop, market, and service new and existing products. Competition for such key and highly-skilled employees is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. To succeed, we must hire and retain employees who are highly skilled in the rapidly changing communications and Internet technologies. Individuals who have the skills and can perform the services we need to provide our products and services are in great demand. Because the competition for qualified employees in our industry is intense, hiring and retaining employees with the skills we need is both time-consuming and expensive. We might not be able to hire enough skilled employees or retain the employees we do hire. In addition, provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules of the SEC impose heightened personal liability on some of our key employees. The threat of such liability could make it more difficult to identify, hire and retain qualified key and highly-skilled employees. We have relied on our ability to grant stock options as a means of recruiting and retaining key employees. Recent accounting regulations requiring the expensing of stock options will impair our future ability to provide these incentives without incurring associated compensation costs. Our inability to hire and retain employees with the skills we seek could hinder our ability to sell our existing products, systems, or services or to develop new products, systems, or services with a consequent adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position, or liquidity. Our reliance on third-party technology or license agreements. We have licensing agreements with various suppliers for software and hardware incorporated into our products. These third-party licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The termination or impairment of these licenses could result in delays of current product shipments or delays or reductions in new product introductions until equivalent designs could be developed, licensed, and integrated, if at all possible, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may have difficulty in collecting outstanding receivables. We grant credit without requiring collateral to substantially all of our customers. In times of economic uncertainty, the risks relating to the granting of such credit would typically increase. Although we monitor and mitigate the risks associated with our credit policies, we cannot ensure that such mitigation will be effective. We have experienced losses due to customers failing to meet their obligations. Future losses could be significant and, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. Interruptions to our business could adversely affect our operations. As with any company, our operations are at risk of being interrupted by earthquake, fire, flood, and other natural and human-caused disasters, including disease and terrorist attacks. Our operations are also at risk of power loss, telecommunications failure, and other infrastructure and technology based problems. To help guard against such risks, we carry business interruption loss insurance with coverage of up to $5.4 million to help compensate us for losses that may occur. 20 Risks Relating to Our Company Our stock price fluctuates as a result of the conduct of our business and stock market fluctuations. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by a variety of factors, including: · statements or changes in opinions, ratings, or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to the market in which we do business or relating to us specifically; · disparity between our reported results and the projections of analysts; · the shift in sales mix of products that we currently sell to a sales mix of lower-gross profit product offerings; · the level and mix of inventory levels held by our distributors; · the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; · technological innovations by us or our competitors; · success in meeting targeted availability dates for new or redesigned products; · the ability to profitably and efficiently manage our supplies of products and key components; · the ability to maintain profitable relationships with our customers; · the ability to maintain an appropriate cost structure; · quarterly variations in our results of operations; · general consumer confidence or general market conditions or market conditions specific to technology industries; · domestic and international economic conditions; · the adoption of the new accounting standard, SFAS No. 123R, “Share-Based Payments,” which requires us to record compensation expense for certain options issued before July 1, 2005 and for all options issued or modified after June 30, 2005; · our ability to report financial information in a timely manner; and · the markets in which our stock is traded. We have previously identified material weaknesses in our internal controls. Although we have committed considerable resources to date to the reviews and remedies over our disclosure and financial reporting internal controls, it will take time and additional expenditures to completely remediate any material weakness in our internal controls. We are always at risk that any future failure of our own internal controls or the internal control at any of our outsourced manufacturers or service providers could result in additional reported material weaknesses. Any future failures of our internal controls could have a material impact on our market capitalization, results of operations, or financial position, or have other adverse consequences. Our directors and officers own 19.0 percent of the Company and may exert significant influence over us. Our officers and directors together have beneficial ownership of approximately 19.0 percent of our common stock (including options that are currently exercisable or exercisable within 60 days of August 31, 2006). With this significant holding in the aggregate, the officers and directors, acting together, could exert a significant degree of influence over us and may be able to delay or prevent a change in control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 21 ITEM 