ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors should carefully consider the risks described below. The risks described below are not the only ones we face and there are risks that we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial that may also impair our business operations. Any of these risks could harm our business. The trading price of our common stock could decline significantly due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Risks Relating to Our Business We face intense competition in all markets for our products and services; our operating results will be adversely affected if we cannot compete effectively against other companies. The markets for our products and services are characterized by intense competition and pricing pressures and rapid technological change. We compete with businesses having substantially greater financial, research and product development, manufacturing, marketing, and other resources. If we are not able to continually design, manufacture, and successfully introduce new or enhanced products or services that are comparable or superior to those provided by our competitors and at comparable or better prices, we could experience pricing pressures and reduced sales, gross profit margins, profits, and market share, each of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Difficulties in estimating customer demand in our products segment could harm our profit margins. Orders from our distributors and other distribution participants are based on demand from end-users. Prospective end-user demand is difficult to measure. This means that our revenue during any fiscal quarter could be adversely impacted by low end-user demand, which could in turn negatively affect orders we receive from distributors and dealers. Our expectations for both short and long-term future net revenues are based on our own estimates of future demand. Revenue for any particular time period is difficult to predict with any degree of certainty. We typically ship products within a short time after we receive an order; consequently, unshipped backlog has not historically been a good indicator of future revenue. We believe that the level of backlog is dependent in part on our ability to forecast revenue mix and plan our manufacturing accordingly. A significant portion of our customers’ orders are received during the last month of the quarter. We budget the amount of our expenses based on our revenue estimates. If our estimates of sales are not accurate and we experience unforeseen variability in our revenue and operating results, we may be unable to adjust our expense levels accordingly and our gross profit and results of operations will be adversely affected. Higher inventory levels or stock shortages may also result from difficulties in estimating customer demand. Our sales depend to a certain extent on government funding and regulation. In the audio conferencing products market, the revenue generated from sales of our audio conferencing products for distance learning and courtroom facilities depends on government funding. In the event government funding for such initiatives was reduced or became unavailable, our sales could be negatively impacted. Additionally, many of our products are subject to governmental regulations. New regulations could significantly impact sales in an adverse manner. Environmental laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant costs and impact on revenue. Regulations regarding the materials used in manufacturing, the process of disposing of electronic equipment and the efficient use of energy require additional time to obtain regulatory approvals of new products in international markets. Such regulations may impact our ability to expand our sales in a timely and cost-effective manner and as a result, our business could be harmed. Product development delays or defects could harm our competitive position and reduce our revenue. We have in the past experienced, and may again experience, technical difficulties and delays with the development and introduction of new products. Many of the products we develop contain sophisticated and complicated circuitry, software and components, and utilize manufacturing techniques involving new technologies. Potential difficulties in the development process that could be experienced by us include difficulty in the following: ● meeting required specifications and regulatory standards; ● meeting market expectations for performance; - 14 - Table of Contents CLEARONE COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORS ● hiring and keeping a sufficient number of skilled developers; ● obtaining prototype products at anticipated cost levels; ● having the ability to identify problems or product defects in the development cycle; and ● achieving necessary manufacturing efficiencies. Once new products reach the market, they may have defects, or may be met by unanticipated new competitive products, which could adversely affect market acceptance of these products and our reputation. If we are not able to manage and minimize such potential difficulties, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. Our profitability may be adversely affected by our continuing dependence on our distribution channels. We market our products primarily through a network of distributors who in turn sell our products to systems integrators, dealers, and value-added resellers. All of our agreements with such distributors and other distribution participants are non-exclusive, terminable at will by either party, and generally short-term. No assurances can be given that any or all such distributors or other distribution participants will continue their relationship with us. Distributors and, to a lesser extent, systems integrators, dealers, and value-added resellers cannot easily be replaced and the loss of revenues and our inability to reduce expenses to compensate for the loss of revenue could adversely affect our net revenue and profit margins. Although we rely on our distribution channels to sell our products, our distributors and other distribution participants are not obligated to devote any specified amount of time, resources, or efforts to the marketing of our products, or to sell a specified number of our products. There are no prohibitions on distributors or other resellers offering products that are competitive with our products, and some do offer competitive products. The support of our products by distributors and other distribution participants may depend on the competitive strength of our products and the price incentives we offer for their support. If our distributors and other distribution participants are not committed to our products, our revenue and profit margins may be adversely affected. Additionally, we offer our distributors price protection on their inventory of our products. If we reduce the list price of our products, we will compensate our distributors for the respective products that remain in their inventory on the date the price adjustment becomes effective provided that they have taken delivery of the products within the last 35 days. Our net revenue and profit margins could be adversely affected if we reduce product prices significantly or distributors happen to have significant inventory on-hand of the affected product at the time of a price reduction. Further, if we do not have sufficient cash resources to compensate distributors on terms satisfactory to them or us, our price protection obligations may prevent us from reacting quickly to competitive market conditions. We rely on reporting of distribution channel inventory by our distributors to recognize revenue from product sales to them, which could turn out to be inaccurate. We defer recognition of revenue from product sales to distributors until the return privilege has expired, which approximates when product is sold-through to customers of our distributors. We evaluate, at each quarter-end, the inventory in the channel through information provided by our distributors. We use this information to determine the amount of inventory in the channel, and the appropriate revenue and cost of goods sold associated with those channel products. We cannot guarantee that the third party data, as reported will be accurate. We periodically audit a limited number of distributors. We depend on an outsourced manufacturing strategy, and any disruption in their services could negatively impact our product availability and revenues. We outsource the manufacturing of all of our products to electronics manufacturing services ("EMS") providers located in both the U.S. and Asia. If any of these EMS providers experiences difficulties in obtaining sufficient supplies of components, component prices significantly exceeding anticipated costs, an interruption in their operations, or otherwise suffers capacity constraints, we would experience a delay in shipping these products which would have a negative impact on our revenue. Should there be any disruption in services due to natural disaster, like the recent natural disaster in Japan, economic or political difficulties, transportation restrictions, acts of terror, quarantines or other restrictions associated with infectious diseases, or other similar events, or any other reason, such disruption would have a material adverse effect on our business. Operating in the international outsourcing environment exposes us to certain inherent risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs, and potentially adverse tax consequences, which could materially affect our results of operations. Currently, we have no second source of manufacturing for a portion of our products. - 15 - Table of Contents CLEARONE COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORS Switching from one EMS provider to another is an expensive, difficult and a time consuming process, with serious risks to our ability to successfully transfer our manufacturing operations. Our operations and consequently our revenues and profitability would be materially adversely affected if we are forced to switch any of our EMS providers due to any of a number of factors, including financial difficulties faced by the manufacturer, disagreements in pricing negotiations between us and the manufacturer and organizational changes in the manfacturer. The cost of delivered product from our EMS providers is a direct function of their ability to buy components at a competitive price and to realize efficiencies and economies of scale within their overall business structures. If they are unsuccessful in driving efficient cost models, our delivered costs could rise, affecting our profitability and ability to compete. In addition, if the EMS providers are unable to achieve greater operational efficiencies, delivery schedules for new product development and current product delivery could be negatively impacted. Difficulties in integrating past or potential future acquisitions could adversely affect our business. We recently acquired NetStreams, a pioneer in digital media networks based on Internet Protocol (TCP/IP). The efficient and effective integration of this business into our organization is important to our growth. Any acquisition involves numerous risks, including difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies, the diversion of our management's attention from other business concerns, and the potential loss of key customers or employees of an acquired company. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of this and any future acquisitions or to successfully integrate the operations of this or any other companies we acquire could also harm our business, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, we cannot assure you that we will not incur material charges in future quarters to reflect additonal costs associated with acquisitions or any future acquisitions we may make. Product obsolescence could harm demand for our products and could adversely affect our revenue and our results of operations. Our industry is subject to technological innovations that could render existing technologies in our products obsolete and thereby decrease market demand for such products. If any of our products becomes slow-moving or obsolete and the recorded value of our inventory is greater than its market value, we will be required to write down the value of our inventory to its fair market value, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In limited circumstances, we are required to purchase components that our outsourced manufacturers use to produce and assemble our products. Should technological innovations render these components obsolete, we will be required to write down the value of this inventory, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or have insufficient proprietary rights, our business would be materially impaired. We currently rely primarily on a combination of trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, patents, patents pending, and nondisclosure agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products. No assurances can be given that others will not independently develop technologies similar to ours, or duplicate or design around aspects of our technology. In addition, we cannot assure that any patent or registered trademark owned by us will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to us. Costly litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights. We believe our products and other proprietary rights do not infringe upon any proprietary rights of third parties; however, we cannot assure that third parties will not assert infringement claims in the future. Our industry is characterized by vigorous protection of intellectual property rights. Such claims and the resulting litigation are expensive and could divert our attention, regardless of the merit of such claims. In the event of a successful claim, we might be required to license third-party technology or redesign our products, which may not be possible or economically feasible. We currently hold only a limited number of patents. To the extent that we have patentable technology for which we have not filed patent applications, others may be able to use such technology or even gain priority over us by patenting such technology themselves. With respect to any patent application we have filed, we cannot assure that a patent will be awarded. International sales account for a significant portion of our net revenue and risks inherent in international sales could harm our business. International sales represent a significant portion of our total product revenue. We anticipate that the portion of our total product revenue from international sales will continue to increase as we further enhance our focus on developing new products for new markets, establishing new distribution partners, strengthening our presence in emerging economies, and improving product localization with country-specific product documentation and marketing materials. Our international business is subject to the financial and operating risks of conducting business internationally, including the following: - 16 - Table of Contents CLEARONE COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORS ● unexpected changes in, or the imposition of, additional legislative or regulatory requirements; ● unique or more onerous environmental regulations; ● fluctuating exchange rates; ● tariffs and other barriers; ● difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales operations; ● import and export restrictions; ● greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection and longer payment cycles; ● potentially adverse tax consequences; ● potential hostilities and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and ● disruption in services due to natural disaster, economic or political difficulties, transportation, quarantines or other restrictions associated with infectious diseases. We may not be able to hire and retain qualified key and highly-skilled technical employees, which could affect our ability to compete effectively and may cause our revenue and profitability to decline. We depend on our ability to hire and retain qualified key and highly skilled employees to manage, research and develop, market, and service new and existing products. Competition for such key and highly-skilled employees is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. To succeed, we must hire and retain employees who are highly skilled in the rapidly changing communications and Internet technologies. Individuals who have the skills and can perform the services we need to provide our products and services are in great demand. Because the competition for qualified employees in our industry is intense, hiring and retaining employees with the skills we need is both time-consuming and expensive. We may not be able to hire enough skilled employees or retain the employees we do hire. In addition, provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules of the SEC impose heightened personal liability on some of our key employees. The threat of such liability could make it more difficult to identify, hire and retain qualified key and highly-skilled employees. We have relied on our ability to grant stock options as a means of recruiting and retaining key employees. Recent accounting regulations requiring the expensing of stock options will impair our future ability to provide these incentives without incurring associated compensation costs. If we are unable to hire and retain employees with the skills we seek, our ability to sell our existing products, systems, or services or to develop new products, systems, or services could be hindered with a consequent adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position, or liquidity. We rely on third-party technology and license agreements, the loss of any of which could negatively impact our business. We have licensing agreements with various suppliers for software and hardware incorporated into our products. These third-party licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The termination or impairment of these licenses could result in delays of current product shipments or delays or reductions in new product introductions until equivalent designs could be developed, licensed, and integrated, if at all possible, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may have difficulty in collecting outstanding receivables. We grant credit to substantially all of our customers without requiring collateral. In times of economic uncertainty, the risks relating to the granting of such credit will typically increase. Although we monitor and mitigate the risks associated with our credit policies, we cannot ensure that such mitigation will be effective. We have experienced losses due to customers failing to meet their obligations. Future losses could be significant and, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. Interruptions to our business could adversely affect our operations. As with any company, our operations are at risk of being interrupted by earthquake, fire, flood, and other natural and human-caused disasters, including disease and terrorist attacks. Our operations are also at risk of power loss, telecommunications failure, and other infrastructure and technology based problems. To help guard against such risks, we carry business interruption loss insurance to help compensate us for losses that may occur, but we cannot assure that such coverage would protect us from all such possible losses. - 17 - Table of Contents CLEARONE COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Share Ownership Our stock price fluctuates as a result of the conduct of our business and stock market fluctuations. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by a variety of factors, including the following: ● statements or changes in opinions, ratings, or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to the market in which we do business or relating to us specifically; ● disparity between our reported results and the projections of analysts; ● the shift in sales mix of products that we currently sell to a sales mix of lower-gross profit product offerings; ● the level and mix of inventory levels held by our distributors; ● the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; ● technological innovations by us or our competitors; ● success in meeting targeted availability dates for new or redesigned products; ● the ability to profitably and efficiently manage our supplies of products and key components; ● the ability to maintain profitable relationships with our customers; ● the ability to maintain an appropriate cost structure; ● quarterly variations in our results of operations; ● general consumer confidence or general market conditions or market conditions specific to technology industries; ● domestic and international economic conditions; ● unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs; ● our ability to report financial information in a timely manner; and ● the markets in which our stock is traded. Rights to acquire our common stock could result in dilution to other holders of our common stock. As of December 31, 2010, we had outstanding options to acquire approximately 1.2 million shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $4.35 per share. An additional 616,000 shares remain available for grant under our 2007 Equity Incentive Plan. During the terms of these options, the holders thereof will have the opportunity to profit from an increase in the market price of the common stock. The existence of these options may adversely affect the terms on which we can obtain additional financing, and the holders of these options can be expected to exercise such options at a time when we, in all likelihood, would be able to obtain additional capital by offering shares of our common stock on terms more favorable to us than those provided by the exercise of these options. Sales of additional shares of our common stock could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect prevailing market prices and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. Most shares of common stock currently outstanding are eligible for sale in the public market, subject in certain cases to compliance with the requirements of Rule 144 under the securities laws. Shares issued upon the exercise of stock options granted under our stock option plan generally will be eligible for sale in the public market. We also have the authority to issue additional shares of common stock and shares of one or more series of preferred stock. The issuance of such shares could dilute the voting power of the currently outstanding shares of our common stock and could dilute earnings per share. We have previously identified material weaknesses in our internal controls. In our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2006 and Form 10-K/A-2 for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2008, we reported and identified a material weakness in our internal controls. Although we believe we have remedied this weakness through the commitment of considerable resources, we are always at risk that any future failure of our own internal controls or the internal control at any of our outsourced manufacturers or partners could result in additional reported material weaknesses. Any future failures of our internal controls could have a material impact on our market capitalization, results of operations, or financial position, or have other adverse consequences. - 18 - Table of Contents CLEARONE COMMUNICATIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORS ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 