Risk Factors. Readers should carefully consider, in connection with other information disclosed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the risk factors set forth below. The following discussion sets forth some of the more important risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, other factors, besides those discussed below or elsewhere in this report or other of our reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, also could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot assure you that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in this document are a complete set of all potential risks we may face. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those discussed in forward looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Please also refer to the section titled “Forward Looking Statements” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks related to the general business environment and our industry Difficult market conditions have already affected us and our industry and may continue to adversely affect us. Given that almost all of our business is in Puerto Rico and the United States and given the degree of interrelation between Puerto Rico’s economy and that of the United States, we are particularly exposed to downturns in the U.S. economy. Dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market over the past few years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial banks and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital from private and government entities, to merge with larger and stronger financial institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has already adversely affected our industry and has and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company experienced increased levels of non-performing assets and OTTI charges on its non-agency MBSs as a result of market conditions. We do not 37 Table of Contents expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. • The processes and models we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecast of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation and which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the processes and models. • Regulatory agency views of market conditions and the effect of market conditions on our borrowers may differ from those of management, and such variance in views, if any, may contribute to changes in charge-offs and loan loss provisions. • Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to engage in sales of mortgage loans to third parties (including mortgage loan securitization transactions with government sponsored entities) on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including deteriorating investor expectations. • Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. • We may be required to pay in the future significantly higher FDIC assessments to insure our deposits if market conditions do not improve or if market conditions deteriorate. • We may face higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or regulatory action that either (i) reduces the amount that our borrowers are required to pay us, or (ii) limits our ability to foreclose on properties or collateral or makes foreclosures less economically viable. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, our ability to access capital and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Adverse credit market conditions may affect the Company’s ability to meet its liquidity needs; unforeseen disruptions in the brokered deposits market could compromise the Company’s liquidity position. The credit markets, although recovering, have experienced extreme volatility and disruption. At times during the past few years, the volatility and disruptions reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity of certain issuers, particularly for non-investment grade issuers like us. We need liquidity to, among other things, pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our preferred stock (if dividends are declared and paid), maintain our lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we may be forced to curtail our operations. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit and our credit capacity. Our cash flows and financial condition could be materially affected by continued disruptions in the financial markets. A relatively large portion of our funding is retail brokered deposits issued by Doral Bank PR. The Company’s total brokered deposits as of December 31, 2010 were $2.4 billion. An unforeseen disruption in the brokered deposits market, stemming from factors such as legal, regulatory or financial risks, could adversely affect our ability to fund a portion of our operations and/or meet obligations. 38 Table of Contents Our business concentration in Puerto Rico imposes risks. We conduct our operations in a geographically concentrated area, as our main market is in Puerto Rico. This imposes risks from lack of diversification in the geographical portfolio. The Company’s financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on the economic conditions of Puerto Rico, where adverse political or economic developments or natural disasters, among other things, could affect the volume of loan originations, increase the level of non-performing assets, increase the rate of foreclosure losses and reduce the value of our loans and loan servicing portfolio. Our credit quality may continue to be adversely affected by Puerto Rico’s current economic conditions. The Company’s business activities and credit exposure are concentrated in Puerto Rico. Consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on economic conditions in Puerto Rico. Puerto Rico’s economy is currently in a recession that began in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year that ended June 30, 2006. Although the Puerto Rico economy is closely linked to the United States economy, for fiscal years 2007, 2008 and 2009, Puerto Rico’s real gross national product decreased by 1.2%, 2.8% and 3.7%, respectively, while the United States economy grew at a rate of 1.8% and 2.8% during fiscal years 2007 and 2008, respectively, and contracted at a rate of 2.5% during fiscal year 2009. According to the Puerto Rico Planning Board’s latest projections, Puerto Rico’s real gross national product was projected to contract by 3.6% during fiscal year 2010. Puerto Rico’s real gross national product for fiscal year 2011, however, is projected to grow by 0.4%. The number of persons employed in Puerto Rico during fiscal year 2010 averaged 1,102,700, a decrease of 5.6% compared to the previous fiscal year. During the first six months of fiscal year 2011, total employment averaged 1,084,500, a decline of 2.5% compared with the same period of the previous fiscal year, and the unemployment rate averaged 15.9%. Since 2000, the Government of Puerto Rico has experienced a structural imbalance between recurring government revenues and total expenditures. The structural imbalance was exacerbated during fiscal years 2008 and 2009, with recurring government expenditures significantly exceeding recurring government revenues. Prior to fiscal year 2009, the Puerto Rico government bridged the deficit resulting from the structural imbalance through the use of non-recurring measures, such as borrowing from the Government Development Bank for Puerto Rico or in the bond market, postponing the payment of various government expenses, such as payments to suppliers and utilities providers, and other one time measures such as the use of derivatives and borrowings collateralized with government assets such as real estate. Since March 2009, the government has taken multiple steps to address and resolve the structural imbalance. For fiscal year 2009, the deficit was approximately $3.3 billion, consisting of the difference between revenues and expenses for such fiscal year. The estimated deficit is projected to be approximately $2.1 billion for fiscal year 2010 and approximately $1.0 billion for fiscal year 2011. Measures that the Government of Puerto Rico has implemented have included reducing expenses, including public sector employment through layoffs of employees. Since the Government of Puerto Rico is the largest source of employment in Puerto Rico, these measures have had the effect of increasing unemployment and could have the effect of intensifying the current recessionary cycle. In addition, a payment or other material default by the Government of Puerto Rico or any of its agencies, public corporations or instrumentalities with respect to their municipal bond or note obligations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The current state of the Puerto Rico economy and continued uncertainty in the public and private sectors has had an adverse effect on the credit quality of our loan portfolios and reduced the level of our originations in Puerto Rico. The continuation of the economic slowdown would cause those adverse effects to continue, as delinquency rates may continue to increase in the short term, until sustainable growth of the Puerto Rico economy resumes. Also, potential reduction in consumer spending as a result of continued recessionary conditions may also impact growth in other interest and non-interest revenue sources of the Company. 39 Table of Contents A prolonged economic slowdown or decline in the residential real estate market in the U.S. mainland and in Puerto Rico and an increase in the continued unemployment in Puerto Rico could continue to adversely affect our results of operations. The residential mortgage loan origination business has historically been cyclical, enjoying periods of strong growth and profitability followed by periods of shrinking volumes and industry-wide losses. The market for residential mortgage loan originations is currently in decline and this trend could also reduce the level of mortgage loans we may produce in the future and adversely affect our business. During periods of rising interest rates, refinancing originations for many mortgage products tend to decrease as the economic incentives for borrowers to refinance their existing mortgage loans are reduced. In addition, the residential mortgage loan origination business is impacted by home values. Over the past three years, residential real estate values in many areas of the U.S. have decreased significantly, which has led to lower volumes and higher losses across the industry, adversely impacting our mortgage business. The actual rates of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on loans have been higher during the recent economic slowdown. Rising unemployment, higher interest rates or declines in housing prices have had a greater negative effect on the ability of borrowers to repay their mortgage loans. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could continue to harm our ability to sell loans, the prices we receive for loans, the values of mortgage loans held for sale or residual interests in securitizations, which could continue to harm our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any additional material decline in real estate values would further weaken the collateral loan-to-value ratios and increase the possibility of loss if a borrower defaults. In such event, we will be subject to the risk of loss on such loan arising from borrower defaults to the extent not covered by third-party credit enhancement. The soundness of other financial institutions could affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, investment companies and other institutional clients. In certain of these transactions, we are required to post collateral to secure our obligations to the counterparties. In the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding involving one of such counterparties, we may experience delays in recovering the assets posted as collateral or may incur a loss to the extent that the counterparty was holding collateral in excess of the obligation to such counterparty. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, our earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve to implement these objectives are open market operations in U.S. government securities, adjustments of the discount rate and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. On January 6, 2010, the member agencies of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, which includes the Federal Reserve and the FDIC, issued an interest rate risk advisory reminding banks to maintain sound practices for managing interest rate risk, particularly in the current environment of historically low short-term interest rates. 40 Table of Contents The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The effects of such policies upon our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adverse. Our income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies (in particular, the Federal Reserve). Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the prepayment speed of loans, the value of loans, investment securities and mortgage servicing assets, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits, and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will affect our business. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. The legislation is making significant structural reforms to the financial services industry. The legislation, among other things, is: (i) establishing a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection having broad authority to regulate providers of credit, savings and other consumer financial products and services, narrows the scope of federal preemption of state consumer laws and expands the authority of state attorneys general to bring actions to enforce federal consumer protection legislation; (ii) creating a structure to regulate systematically important financial companies, and provide regulators with the power to require such companies to sell or transfer assets and terminate activities if the regulators determine the size or the scope of the activities of the company pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the company or the financial stability of the United States; (iii) requiring more comprehensive regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market, including providing for more strict capital and margin requirements, the central clearing of standardized over-the-counter derivatives, and heightened supervision of all over-the-counter derivatives dealers and major market participants; (iv) limiting the ability of banking entities to engage in certain proprietary trading activities and restricting their ownership of, investment in or sponsorship of hedge funds and private equity funds; (v) restricting the interchange fees payable on debit card transactions; (vi) abolishing the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”) and transferring its functions and responsibilities regarding the supervision of federal savings banks, such as Doral Bank US, to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”); (vii) strengthening the regulatory oversight of securities and capital markets activities by the US Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and enhancing the safety and soundness of the securitization process, including a requirement that securitizers and originators retain a portion of the credit risk for any asset that they securitize or originate; (viii) permanently increasing the federal deposit insurance from $100,000 to $250,000, permitting depository institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts (such as commercial checking accounts) and permitting de novo interstate branching by federal and state depository institutions alike; and (ix) strengthening existing laws and regulations applicable to public companies governing corporate accountability, giving shareholders “say on pay” and other corporate governance rights, and imposing limitations on certain executive compensation practices. Some of the provisions of the legislation have already become effective. Other provisions will have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates, and will be required to be implemented through 41 Table of Contents regulatory action of various federal regulatory authorities. Because many of the provisions require future regulatory actions for their implementation, the ultimate impact of the legislation on the financial services industry and on our business, are not completely known at this time. The implementation of many of the provisions of the legislation will affect our business and are expected to add new regulatory risk and compliance burdens and costs on the financial services industry and us. The implementation of this legislation could result in loss of revenue, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities we might otherwise consider engaging in, impact the value of some of the assets we hold, require us to change certain of our business practices, impose additional costs on us, establish more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements, or otherwise adversely affect our business. The Company operates within a highly regulated industry and its business and results are significantly affected by the regulations to which it is subject; changes in statutes and regulations could adversely affect the Company. We operate within a highly regulated environment. The regulations to which the Company is subject will continue to have a significant impact on the Company’s operations and the degree to which it can grow and be profitable. Certain regulators which supervise the Company have significant power in reviewing the Company’s operations and approving its business practices. These powers include the ability to place limitations or conditions on activities in which the Company engages or intends to engage. Particularly in recent years, the Company’s businesses have experienced increased regulation and regulatory scrutiny, often requiring additional Company resources. Current economic conditions, particularly in the financial markets, have resulted in government regulatory agencies and political bodies placing increased focus and scrutiny on the financial services industry. The U.S. Government has intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding to what has been commonly referred to as the financial crisis, by enhancing the liquidity support available to financial institutions, establishing a commercial paper funding facility, temporarily guaranteeing money market funds and certain types of debt issuances, and increasing insurance on bank deposits. These programs have subjected participating financial institutions to additional restrictions, oversight and costs. In addition, new proposals for legislation continue to be introduced in the U.S. Congress that could further increase regulation of the financial services industry and impose restrictions on the operations and general ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. We cannot predict the substance or impact of any change in regulation, whether by regulators or as a result of legislation enacted by the United States Congress or by the Puerto Rico Legislature, or in the way such statutory or regulatory requirements are interpreted or enforced. Compliance with such current and potential regulation and scrutiny may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business practices, require us to increase our regulatory capital and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner. Further increases in the FDIC insurance assessment premiums or required reserves may have a significant impact on us. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured depository institutions up to certain limits. The FDIC charges insured depository institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”). Current economic conditions have resulted in higher bank failures and expectations of future bank failures. In the event of a bank failure, the FDIC takes control of a failed bank and ensures payment of deposits up to insured limits (which have recently been increased) using the resources of the DIF. The FDIC is required by law to maintain adequate funding of the DIF, and the FDIC may increase premium assessments to maintain such funding. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted the final rule implementing a prepayment assessment for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 in order to strengthen the cash position of the DIF. The Company’s total prepaid assessment was $67.1 million, which according to the final rule was recorded as 42 Table of Contents a prepaid expense as of December 30, 2009. The prepaid assessment will be amortized and recognized by the Company as an expense over the period from 2010 to 2012. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to increase the DIF’s reserves against future losses, which will necessitate increased deposit insurance premiums that are expected to be borne primarily by institutions with assets of greater than $10 billion. In October 2010, the FDIC addressed plans to bolster the DIF by increasing the required reserve ratio for the industry to 1.35 percent (ratio of reserves to insured deposits) by September 30, 2020, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. In December 2010, the FDIC approved a final rule raising its industry target ratio of reserves to insured deposits to 2 percent, 65 basis points above the statutory minimum, but the FDIC does not project that goal to be met until 2027. On February 7, 2010, the FDIC approved a final rule that amends its current deposit insurance assessment regulations. The final rule implements a provision in the Dodd-Frank Act that changes the assessment base for deposit insurance premiums from one based on domestic deposits to one based on average consolidated total assets minus average Tier 1 capital. The final rule also changes the assessment rate schedules for insured depository institutions so that approximately the same amount of revenue would be collected under the new assessment base as would be collected under the current rate schedule and the schedules previously proposed by the FDIC in October 2010. The final rule also revises the risk-based assessment system for all large insured depository institutions (generally, institutions with at least $10 billion in total assets). Under the proposed rule, the FDIC would use a scorecard method to calculate assessment rates for all such institutions. As noted by the FDIC in the final rule it adopted, the final rule should keep the overall amount collected from the industry very close to unchanged, although the amounts that individual institutions pay will be different. The new large bank pricing system is expected to result in higher assessments for banks with high-risk asset concentrations, less stable balance sheet liquidity, or potentially higher loss severity in the event of failure. We are generally unable to control the amount of assessments that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, or if our risk rating deteriorates for purposes of determining the level of our FDIC insurance assessments, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC insurance assessments than the recently increased levels. Any future increases in FDIC insurance assessments may materially adversely affect our results of operations. The consolidation of the Puerto Rico banking industry as a result of bank failures in 2010 may adversely affect us. In April 2010, the FDIC closed three Puerto Rico banks and sold some of their assets and liabilities to other banks in Puerto Rico. In the future, there may be additional bank failures, mergers and acquisitions in our industry. Any business combinations could significantly alter industry conditions and competition within the Puerto Rico banking industry and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the strategies adopted by the FDIC and the three acquiring banks in connection with some of the residential, construction and commercial real estate loans acquired may adversely affect residential and commercial real estate values in Puerto Rico. This in turn may adversely affect the value of some of our residential, construction and commercial real estate loans, and our ability to sell or restructure some of our residential, construction and commercial real estate loans. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect the Company’s financial statements. Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”). The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed by the Company in its filings with the SEC. An 43 Table of Contents assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are still subject to change. It is possible that future accounting standards that the Company is required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that the Company applies to its consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Risks related to our business Deteriorating credit quality has adversely impacted the Company and may continue to adversely impact the Company. The Company’s has experienced a downturn in credit quality since 2006. The Company’s credit quality has continued to be under pressure during 2010 as a result of continued recessionary conditions in Puerto Rico and the recent slow down in consumer activity and economic growth in the United States that have led to, among other things, higher unemployment levels, much lower absorption rates for new residential construction projects and further declines in property values. The Company expects that credit conditions and the performance of its loan portfolio may continue to deteriorate in the near future. Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers and counterparties and the value of the assets securing our loans or underlying our investments. If the credit quality of the customer base materially decreases, if the risk profile of a market, industry or group of customers changes materially, our business, financial condition, allowance levels, asset impairments, liquidity, capital and results of operations could be adversely affected. The allowance for loan losses is an estimate of incurred losses inherent in the loan portfolio and as such it may not be adequate to cover the actual portfolio losses. As a result, future loan loss provisions may be required. The Company establishes an allowance for loan and lease losses at a level estimated as the amount of incurred losses inherent in the portfolio as of the related financial statement date based upon analysis of past portfolio default trends, severity experience, and fair value estimates, and records a provision for loan and lease losses which adjusts the allowance for loan and lease loss balance to the estimated amount as a charge to current period income. The allowance for loan and leases is an estimate of incurred losses in the loan portfolio made pursuant to accounting guidance, that by accounting principles does not consider or estimate all future losses that will be incurred. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, such as FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner, periodically review the adequacy of our allowance for loan and lease losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses or loan charge-offs. Accordingly, additional loan loss provisions may be required, and such provisions may materially affect our results of operations, financial condition and capital. Changes in collateral values of properties located in recessionary economies may require increased reserves. The performance of our loan portfolio and the collateral value backing the loan transactions are dependent upon the performance of and conditions within each specific real estate market. Recent economic reports related to the real estate market in Puerto Rico indicate that certain pockets of the real estate market are subject to readjustments in value driven not by demand but more by the purchasing power of the consumers and general recessionary economic conditions. We measure the impairment of a loan based on the fair value of the collateral, if collateral dependent, which is generally obtained from appraisals. Updated appraisals are requested when we determine that loans are impaired and are updated annually thereafter. In addition, appraisals are also obtained for certain residential mortgage loans on a spot basis based on specific characteristics such as delinquency levels, age of the appraisal and LTV ratios. The appraised value of the collateral may decrease or we may not be able to recover collateral at its appraised value. A significant decline in collateral valuations for collateral dependent loans may require increases in our specific provision for loan losses and an increase in the general valuation allowance. Any such increase would have an adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. 44 Table of Contents Interest rate shifts may reduce net interest income. Shifts in short-term interest rates may reduce net interest income, which is the principal component of our earnings. Net interest income is the difference between the amounts received by us on our interest-earning assets and the interest paid by us on our interest-bearing liabilities. When interest rates rise, the rate of interest we pay on our liabilities generally rises more quickly than the rate of interest that we receive on our interest-bearing assets, which may cause our profits to decrease. The impact on earnings is more adverse when the slope of the yield curve flattens, that is, when short-term interest rates increase more than long-term interest rates or when long-term interest rates decrease more than short-term interest rates. Increases in interest rates may reduce the value of holdings of securities and demand for mortgage and other loans. Fixed-rate securities acquired by us are generally subject to decreases in market value when interest rates rise, which may require recognition of a loss (e.g., the identification of other-than-temporary impairment on our investments portfolio), thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. Market-related reductions in value also influence our ability to finance these securities. Higher interest rates also increase the cost of mortgage and other loans to consumers and businesses and may reduce demand for such loans, which may negatively impact our profits by reducing the amount of our loan origination income. The Company and its banking subsidiaries are subject to regulatory capital adequacy and other supervisory guidelines, and if we fail to meet those guidelines our business and financial condition would be adversely affected. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our banking subsidiaries must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off balance sheet items, subject to quantitative judgments by regulators regarding components, risk weightings and other factors. Supervisory guidelines also address, among other things, asset quality and liquidity. If the Company and its banking subsidiaries fail to meet these minimum capital and other supervisory and regulatory requirements, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. A failure to meet regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, among other things, would affect our banking subsidiaries ability to accept or rollover brokered deposits and could result in supervisory actions by federal and/or Puerto Rico banking authorities. The hedging transactions that the Company enters into may not be effective in managing the exposure to interest rate risk. The Company uses derivatives, to a limited extent, to manage part of its exposure to market risk caused by changes in interest rates. The derivative instruments that the Company may use also have their own risks, which include: (i) basis risk, which is the risk of loss associated with variations in the spread between the asset yield and funding and/or hedge cost; (ii) credit or default risk, which is the risk of insolvency or other inability of the counterparty to a particular transaction to perform its obligations; and (iii) legal risk, which is the risk that the Company is unable to enforce the terms of such instruments. All or any of these risks could expose the Company to losses. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect us. Management of risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events. We have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be comprehensive given current market conditions. Some of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. As a result, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend on the 45 Table of Contents evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. This information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. The preparation of our financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make significant estimates that affect our financial statements. Three of the Company’s most critical estimates are the level of the allowance for loan and lease losses, the valuation of mortgage servicing rights, and the amount of its deferred tax asset. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates the Company may significantly increase the allowance for loan and lease losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance, and may recognize a significant provision for impairment of its mortgage servicing rights. If the Company’s allowance for loan and lease losses is not adequate, the Company’s business, financial condition, including its liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, in the future, the Company may increase its allowance for loan and lease losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its capital and results of operations. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had a deferred tax asset of approximately $105.7 million. The deferred tax asset is net of a valuation allowance of $462.7 million. The realization of the Company’s deferred tax asset ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income to realize the value of this asset. Due to significant estimates utilized in establishing the valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, it is reasonably possible that the Company will be required to record adjustments to the valuation allowance in future reporting periods. The Company’s results of operations would be negatively impacted if it determines that increases to its deferred tax asset valuation allowance are required in a future reporting period. Defective and repurchased loans may harm our business and financial condition. In connection with the sale and securitization of mortgage loans, the Company is required to make a variety of customary representations and warranties regarding the Company and the loans being sold or securitized. The Company’s obligations with respect to these representations and warranties are generally outstanding for the life of the loan, and they relate to, among other things: • compliance with laws and regulations; • underwriting standards; • the accuracy of information in the loan documents and loan file; and • the characteristics and enforceability of the loan. A loan that does not comply with these representations and warranties may take longer to sell, may impact the Company’s ability to obtain third-party financing for the loan, and be unsalable or salable only at a significant discount. If such a loan is sold before the Company detects a noncompliance, the Company may be obligated to repurchase the loan and bear any associated loss directly, or the Company may be obligated to indemnify the purchaser against any such loss, either of which could reduce the Company’s cash available for operations and liquidity. The Company’s management believes that it has established controls to ensure that loans are originated in accordance with the secondary market’s requirements, but mistakes may be made, or certain employees may deliberately violate the Company’s lending policies. The Company seeks to minimize repurchases and losses from defective loans by correcting flaws, if possible, and selling or re-selling such loans. The Company does not have a reserve on its financial statements for possible losses related to repurchases resulting from representation and warranty violations because it does not expect any such losses to be significant. Losses associated with defective loans may adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. 46 Table of Contents We are exposed to credit risk from mortgage loans held pending sale and mortgage loans that have been sold subject to recourse arrangements. The Company is generally at risk for mortgage loan defaults from the time it funds a loan until the time the loan is sold or securitized into a mortgage-backed security. In the past, the Company retained, through recourse arrangements, part of the credit risk on sales of mortgage loans that did not qualify for GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC sale or exchange programs and consequently may suffer losses on these loans. The Company suffers losses on these loans when the proceeds from a foreclosure sale of the property underlying a defaulted mortgage loan are less than the outstanding principal balance of the loan and the costs of holding and disposing of the related property. The Company estimates the fair value of the retained recourse obligation or any liability incurred at the time of sale and includes such obligation with the net proceeds from the sale, resulting in lower gain-on-sale recognition. The Company evaluates the fair value of its recourse obligation based on historical losses from foreclosure and disposition of mortgage loans adjusted for expectations of changes in portfolio behavior and market environment. We are subject to risks in servicing loans for others. The Company’s profitability may also be adversely affected by mortgage loan delinquencies and defaults on mortgage loans that it services for third parties. Under many of its servicing contracts, the Company must advance all or part of the scheduled payments to the owner of an outstanding mortgage loan, even when mortgage loan payments are delinquent. In addition, in order to protect their liens on mortgaged properties, owners of mortgage loans usually require that the Company, as servicer, pay mortgage and hazard insurance and tax payments on schedule even if sufficient escrow funds are not available. The Company generally recovers its advances from the mortgage owner or from liquidation proceeds when the mortgage loan is foreclosed. However, in the interim, the Company must absorb the cost of the funds it advances during the time the advance is outstanding. The Company must also bear the costs of attempting to collect on delinquent and defaulted mortgage loans. In addition, if a default is not cured, the mortgage loan will be canceled as part of the foreclosure proceedings and the Company will not receive any future servicing income with respect to that loan. As a result of our credit ratings, we may be subjected to increased collateral requirements and other measures that could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We have previously sold or securitized mortgage loans in transactions with FNMA and other counterparties subject to partial or full recourse. As of December 31, 2010, the maximum contractual exposure to the Company if it were required to purchase all loans sold subject to partial or full recourse was $0.7 billion, $0.6 billion of which consisted of exposure to FNMA. Our contractual agreements with FNMA authorize FNMA to require us to post additional collateral to secure our recourse obligations with FNMA, and FNMA has the contractual right to request collateral for the full amount of our recourse obligations when, as now, we do not maintain an investment grade rating. In January 2006, we agreed to post with FNMA $44.0 million in collateral to secure our recourse obligations. In addition, certain of our servicing agreements, such as those with FNMA, FHLMC, and GNMA, contain provisions triggered by changes in our financial condition or failure to maintain required credit ratings. We do not currently maintain the credit ratings required by GNMA and possibly other counterparties, which may result in increased collateral requirements and/or require us to engage a substitute fund custodian, or could result in termination of our servicing rights. Termination of our servicing rights, requirements to post additional collateral or the loss of custodian funds could reduce our liquidity and have an adverse impact on our operating results. Our ability to sell loans and other mortgage products to government-sponsored entities could be impacted by changes in our financial condition or the historical performance of our mortgage products. Our ability to sell mortgage products to government-sponsored entities (“GSEs”), such as FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA, depends, among other things, on our financial condition and the historical performance of our mortgage products. To protect our ability to continue to sell mortgage products to GNMA and other GSEs, we have and may in the future repurchase defaulted loans from such counterparties. During 2010 and 47 Table of Contents 2009, we repurchased $68.2 million and $127.9 million, respectively, of defaulted FHA guaranteed loans from GNMA. Any such repurchases in the future may negatively impact our liquidity and operating results. Termination of our ability to sell mortgage products to the GSEs would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may engage in FDIC-assisted transactions, which could present additional risks to our business. We may have opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. Although these transactions typically provide for FDIC assistance to an acquirer to mitigate certain risks, such as sharing exposure to loan losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution, we would still be subject to many of the same risks we would face in acquiring another bank in a negotiated transaction, including risks associated with maintaining customer relationships and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. In addition, because these transactions are structured in a manner that would not allow us the time and access to information normally associated with preparing for and evaluating a negotiated transaction, we may face additional risk in FDIC-assisted transactions, including additional strain on management resources, management of problem loans, problems related to integration of personnel and operating systems and impact to our capital resources requiring us to raise additional capital. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with FDIC-assisted transactions. Our inability to overcome these risks could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may fail to retain and attract key employees and management personnel. Our success has been and will continue to be influenced by our ability to retain and attract key employees and management personnel, including senior and middle management. Our ability to attract and retain key employees and management personnel may be adversely affected as a result of the workload and stress associated with the resolution of legacy issues and business transformation efforts, and related risks and uncertainties; the consolidation of the Puerto Rico banking industry; or by additional work relating to any potential or actual acquisition. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect the profitability of our operations. The Company faces significant competition from other financial institutions, many of which have significantly greater assets, capital and other resources. As a result, many of the Company’s competitors have advantages in conducting certain businesses and providing certain services. This competitive environment could force the Company to increase the rates it offers on deposits or lower the rates it charges on loans and, consequently, could adversely affect the profitability of its operations. Damage to our reputation could damage our businesses. Maintaining a positive reputation for the Company is critical to the Company attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees. Damage to its reputation can therefore cause significant harm to the Company’s business and prospects. Harm to the Company’s reputation can arise from numerous sources, including, among others, employee misconduct, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum standards of service and quality, compliance failures, unethical behavior, and the activities of customers and counterparties. Negative publicity regarding the Company, whether or not true, may also result in harm to the Company’s prospects. We must respond to rapid technological changes, and these changes may be more difficult or expensive than anticipated. If competitors introduce new products and services embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing product and service offerings, technology and systems may become obsolete. Further, if we fail to adopt or develop new technologies or to adapt our products and services to emerging industry standards, we may lose current and future customers, which could have a 48 Table of Contents material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is changing rapidly and in order to remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products, services and technologies. These changes may be more difficult or expensive than we anticipate. Doral Financial and its banking subsidiaries are subject to the supervision and regulation of various banking regulators and have entered into consent orders with these regulators, and these regulators could take action against the Company or its banking subsidiaries. As a regulated financial services firm, the Company’s good standing with its regulators is of fundamental importance to the continuation and growth of its businesses. Doral Financial is subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Commissioner, Doral Bank PR is subject to supervision and regulation by the FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner and Doral Bank US is subject to supervision and regulation by the OTS and the FDIC. Federal banking regulators, in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties, have significant discretion and power to initiate enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. The enforcement powers available to federal banking regulators include, among others, the ability to assess civil monetary penalties, to issue cease-and-desist or removal orders, to require written agreements and to initiate injunctive actions. Doral Financial and Doral Bank PR have entered into consent orders with the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner, which, among other things, prohibited the Company’s banking subsidiaries from paying dividends to the parent company, and prohibited Doral Financial from paying dividends to its common and preferred shareholders, without regulatory approval and required Doral Bank PR to take various actions to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act. While the FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner have lifted their consent orders, these banking regulators could take further action with respect to Doral Financial or our banking subsidiaries and, if any such further action were taken, such action could have a material adverse effect on Doral Financial. Doral Financial’s consent order with the Federal Reserve is still in effect and the Company’s banking regulators could take additional actions to protect the Company’s banking subsidiaries or to ensure that the holding company remains as a source of financial and managerial strength to its banking subsidiaries, and such action could have adverse effects on the Company or its stockholders. Doral Financial has been the subject of an investigation by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York, which could require it to pay substantial fines or penalties. On August 24, 2005, Doral Financial received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York regarding the production of certain documents, including financial statements and corporate, auditing and accounting records prepared during the period relating to the restatement of Doral Financial’s financial statements. Doral Financial cannot predict when this investigation will be completed or what the results of this investigation will be. The effects and results of this investigation could have a material adverse effect on Doral Financial’s business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Adverse developments related to this investigation, including any expansion of its scope, could negatively impact the Company and could divert efforts and attention of its management team from Doral Financial’s ordinary business operations. Doral Financial may be required to pay material fines, judgments or settlements or suffer other penalties, each of which could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. This investigation could adversely affect Doral Financial’s ability to obtain, and/or increase the cost of obtaining, directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and/or other types of insurance, which could have a material adverse effect on Doral Financial’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Doral Financial may be required to advance significant amounts to cover the reasonable legal and other expenses of its former officers and directors. Under Doral Financial’s by-laws, Doral Financial is obligated to pay in advance the reasonable expenses incurred by former officers and directors in defending civil or criminal actions or proceedings pending final 49 Table of Contents disposition of such actions. Since 2005, Doral Financial has been advancing funds on behalf of various former officers and directors in connection with the grand jury proceeding referred to above and ongoing investigations by the SEC relating to the restatement of Doral Financial’s financial statements. On March 6, 2008, a former treasurer of Doral Financial was indicted for alleged criminal violations involving securities and wire fraud. On April 29, 2010, the former treasurer of Doral was convicted on three of the five counts of securities and wire fraud he was facing after a five-week jury trial. On August 13, 2009, the former treasurer of Doral filed a complaint against the Company in the Supreme Court of the State of New York. The complaint alleges that the Company breached a contract with the plaintiff and the Company’s by-laws by failing to advance payment of certain legal fees and expenses that Mr. Levis has incurred in connection with a criminal indictment filed against him in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. Further, the complaint claims that Doral Financial fraudulently induced the plaintiff to enter into agreements concerning the settlement of a civil litigation arising from the restatement of the Company’s financial statements for fiscal years 2000 through 2004. The complaint seeks declaratory relief, damages, costs and expenses. The former treasurer further moved for preliminary injunctive relief. On December 16, 2009, the parties entered into a Settlement Agreement. On December 17, 2009, the former treasurer’s motion for a preliminary injunction was denied as moot, and all further proceedings were stayed, but the procedures for future disputes between the parties and outlined in the Settlement Agreement were not affected by the stay. The amounts required to be advanced in an appeal of the criminal conviction could be substantial and could materially adversely affect Doral Financial’s results of operations. Our businesses may be adversely affected by litigation. From time to time, our customers, or the government on their behalf, may make claims and take legal action relating to our performance of fiduciary or contractual responsibilities. We may also face employment lawsuits or other legal claims. In any such claims or actions, demands for substantial monetary damages may be asserted against us resulting in financial liability or an adverse effect on our reputation among investors or on customer demand for our products and services. We may be unable to accurately estimate our exposure to litigation risk when we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies. As a result, any reserves we establish to cover any settlements or judgments may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In the ordinary course of our business, we are also subject to various regulatory, governmental and law enforcement inquiries, investigations and subpoenas. These may be directed generally to participants in the businesses in which we are involved or may be specifically directed at us. In regulatory enforcement matters, claims for disgorgement, the imposition of penalties and the imposition of other remedial sanctions are possible. Risks related to our common stock Additional issuances of common stock or securities convertible into common stock may further dilute existing holders of our common stock. We may determine that it is advisable, or we may encounter circumstances where we determine it is necessary, to issue additional shares of our common stock, securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our common stock, or common-equivalent securities to fund strategic initiatives or other business needs or to raise additional capital. Depending on our capital needs, we may make such a determination in the near future or in subsequent periods. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of any such future offering, as well as other sales of a large block of shares of our common stock or similar securities in the market thereafter, or the perception that such sales could occur. In addition, such additional equity issuances would reduce any earnings available to the holders of our common stock and the return thereon unless our earnings increase correspondingly. We cannot predict the timing or size of future equity issuances, if any, or the effect that they may have on the market price of the 50 Table of Contents common stock. The issuance of substantial amounts of equity, or the perception that such issuances may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Dividends on our common stock have been suspended; Doral Financial may not be able to pay dividends on its common stock in the future. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. On April 25, 2006, we announced that, as a prudent capital management decision designed to preserve and strengthen the Company’s capital, our board of directors had suspended the quarterly dividend on common stock. In addition, we will be unable to pay dividends on our common stock unless and until we resume payments of dividends on our preferred stock, which were suspended by the Board of Directors in March 2009. The Company’s ability to pay dividends in the future is limited by various regulatory requirements and policies of bank regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the Company and such other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Under an existing consent order with the Federal Reserve, we are restricted from paying dividends on our capital stock without the prior written approval of the Federal Reserve. We are required to request permission for the payment of dividends on our common stock and preferred stock not less than 30 days prior to a proposed dividend declaration date. We may not receive approval for the payment of such dividends in the future or, even with such approval, our board of directors may not resume payment of dividends. The price of our common stock may be subject to fluctuations and volatility. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations because of factors specifically related to our businesses and general market conditions. Factors that could cause such fluctuations, many of which could be beyond our control, include the following: • changes or perceived changes in the condition, operations, results or prospects of our businesses and market assessments of these changes or perceived changes; • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; • changes in governmental regulations or proposals, or new government regulations or proposals, affecting us, including those relating to general market or economic conditions and those that may be specifically directed to us; • the continued decline, failure to stabilize or lack of improvement in general market and economic conditions in our principal markets; • the departure of key personnel; • changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets; • operating results that vary from expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us; • changes in financial reports by securities analysts; • developments related to investigations, proceedings, or litigation that involves us; and • the occurrence of major catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks. All of our debt obligations and our preferred stock will have priority over our common stock with respect to payment in the event of a liquidation, dissolution or winding up. In any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Doral Financial, our common stock would rank below all debt claims against us and all of our outstanding shares of preferred stock. As a result, holders of our common 51 Table of Contents stock will not be entitled to receive any payment or other distribution of assets upon the liquidation or dissolution until after our obligations to our debt holders and holders of preferred stock have been satisfied. Our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and certain banking law provisions contain provisions that could discourage an acquisition or change of control of the Company. Certain provisions under Puerto Rico and federal banking laws and regulations, together with certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, may make it more difficult to effect a change in control of our company, to acquire us or to replace incumbent management. These provisions could potentially deprive our stockholders of opportunities to sell shares of our common stock at above-market prices. Our suspension of preferred stock dividends could result in the expansion of our board of directors. On March 20, 2009, our board of directors announced that it had suspended the declaration and payment of all dividends on all outstanding series of our convertible preferred stock and our noncumulative preferred stock. The suspension of dividends for our noncumulative preferred stock was effective and commenced with the dividends for the month of April 2009. The suspension of dividends for our convertible preferred stock was effective and commenced with the dividends for the quarter commencing in April 2009. Since we have not paid dividends in full on our noncumulative preferred stock for at least eighteen consecutive monthly periods, or paid dividends in full on our convertible preferred stock for consecutive dividend periods containing in the aggregate a number of days equivalent to at least six fiscal quarters, the holders of our preferred stock, all acting together as a single class, have the right to elect two additional members to our board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 