Item 1A. Risk Factors, “Risks related to our business — Defective and repurchased loans may harm our business and financial condition,” and Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis and Results of Operations, “— Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional information. Puerto Rico Secondary Mortgage Market and Favorable Tax Treatment In general, the Puerto Rico market for mortgage-backed securities is an extension of the U.S. market with respect to pricing, rating of investment instruments, and other matters. However, Doral Financial has benefited historically from certain tax incentives provided to Puerto Rico residents to invest in FHA and VA loans and GNMA securities backed by such loans. Under the Puerto Rico Internal Revenue Code (the “PR Code”), the interest received on FHA and VA loans used to finance the original purchase of newly constructed housing in Puerto Rico and mortgage-backed securities backed by such loans is exempt from Puerto Rico income taxes. This favorable tax treatment allows Doral Financial to sell tax-exempt Puerto Rico GNMA mortgage-backed securities to local investors at higher prices than those at which comparable instruments trade in the U.S. mainland, and reduces its effective tax rate through the receipt of tax-exempt interest. Insurance Agency Activities In order to take advantage of the cross-marketing opportunities provided by financial modernization legislation enacted in 2000, Doral Financial entered the insurance agency business in Puerto Rico. Doral Insurance Agency currently earns commissions by acting as agent in connection with the sale of insurance policies issued by unaffiliated insurance companies. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Doral Insurance Agency produced insurance fees and commissions of $13.3 million, $13.3 million and $12.0 million, respectively. Doral Insurance Agency’s activities are closely integrated with the Company’s mortgage loan originations with most policies sold to mortgage customers. Future growth of Doral Insurance Agency’s revenues will be tied to the Company’s level of mortgage originations, its ability to expand the products and services it provides and its ability to cross-market its services to Doral Financial’s existing customer base. Puerto Rico Income Taxes Until December 31, 2011, the maximum statutory corporate income tax rate in Puerto Rico was 39.00%. Under the 1994 Puerto Rico Internal Revenue Code (as amended “1994 Code”), corporations are not permitted to file consolidated returns with their subsidiaries and affiliates. Doral Financial is entitled to a 100% dividend received deduction on dividends received from Doral Bank or any other Puerto Rico subsidiary subject to tax under the Puerto Rico tax code. On March 9, 2009, the Governor of Puerto Rico signed into law the Special Act Declaring a State of Fiscal Emergency and Establishing an Integral Plan of Fiscal Stabilization to Save Puerto Rico’s Credit, Act No. 7 (the “Act”). Pursuant to the Act, section 1020A was introduced to the Code to impose a 5.00% surtax over the total tax determined for corporations, partnerships, trusts, estates, as well as individuals whose combined gross income exceeds $100,000 or married individuals filing jointly whose gross income exceeds $150,000. This surtax is effective for tax years commenced after December 31, 2008 and before January 1, 2012. This increased the Company’s income tax rate from 39.00% to 40.95% for tax years from 2009 through 2011. On November 15, 2010, Act 171 was enacted into law (“Act 171”) generally providing, among other things: (i) a one year income tax credit equal to 7.00% of the “tax liability due” to corporations that paid the Christmas Bonus required by local labor laws, and (ii) extending to 10 years the carry forward term of net operating losses incurred for the years commenced after December 31, 2004 and before December 31, 2012. On January 31, 2011, the Governor signed into law the Internal Revenue Code of 2011 (“2011 Code”) making the 1994 Code generally ineffective for years commenced after December 31, 2010. Under the provisions of the 2011 Code, the maximum statutory corporate income tax rate is 30.00% for years starting after 12 Table of Contents December 31, 2010 and ending before January 1, 2014; if the government meets its income generation and expense control goals, for years started after December 31, 2013, the maximum corporate tax rate will be 25.00%. The 2011 Code eliminated the special 5.00% surtax on corporations for tax year 2011. In general, the 2011 Code maintains the extension in the carry forward periods for net operating losses from 7 to 10 years as provided for in Act 171; maintains the concept of the alternative minimum tax although it changed the way it is computed; allows limited liability companies to have flow-through treatment under certain circumstances; imposes additional restrictions on the use of net operating loss carry forwards after certain types of reorganizations and/or changes in control; and specifies what types of auditors’ report will be acceptable when audited financial statements are required to be filed with the income tax return. Additionally, the 2011 Code provides for changes in the implications of being in a controlled group of corporations and/or group of related corporations. Notwithstanding the 2011 Code, a corporation may be subject to the provisions of the 1994 Code if it so elects it by the time it files its income tax return for the first year commenced after December 31, 2010 and ending before January 1, 2012. If the election is made to remain subject to the provisions of the 1994 Code, such election will be effective that year and the next four succeeding years. In computing its interest expense deduction, Doral Financial’s interest deduction is reduced in the same proportion that its average exempt obligations (including FHA and VA loans and GNMA securities) bear to its average total assets. Therefore, to the extent that Doral Financial holds FHA or VA loans and other tax exempt obligations, part of its interest expense may be disallowed for tax purposes. The Company is evaluating the impact of the tax reform on its results of operations including the election to be taxed under the 1994 Code. Nevertheless, the Company recorded its deferred tax assets estimated to reverse after 2015 at the 30.00% tax rate required for all taxable earnings beginning in 2016, which is the latest taxable year that it would be permitted to elect taxation under the 1994 Code. Puerto Rico deferred tax asset subject to the maximum statutory tax rate and estimated to reverse prior to 2016, together with any related valuation allowance, are recorded at the 39.00% tax rate pursuant to the 1994 Code. Upon determination of which alternative treatment will be followed, the Company will adjust its deferred tax assets for any required tax rate change, if applicable. Adoption of the 2011 Code as of December 31, 2011, would represent an additional deferred tax expense of $7.6 million. Refer to Note 28 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information. United States Income Taxes Except for the operations of Doral Bank US and Doral Money, substantially all of the Company’s operations are conducted through subsidiaries in Puerto Rico. Accordingly, Doral Financial and all of its Puerto Rico subsidiaries are generally required to pay U.S. income taxes only with respect to their income derived from the active conduct of a trade or business in the United States (excluding Puerto Rico) and certain investment income derived from U.S. assets. Any such tax is creditable, with certain limitations, against Puerto Rico income taxes. Doral Money is a U.S. corporation and is subject to U.S. income-tax on its income derived from all sources. After the completion of the merger of Doral Bank and Doral Bank, FSB on October 1, 2011, Doral Bank is now engaged in the active conduct of a trade or business in the United States. Refer to Note 28 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information. Employees As of December 31, 2011, Doral Financial employed 1,241 persons compared to 1,352 as of December 31, 2010. Of the total number of employees, 1,127 were employed in Puerto Rico and 114 employed in the U.S. as of December 31, 2011 compared to 1,281 employed in Puerto Rico and 71 employed in the U.S. as of December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2011, of the total number of employees, 143 were employed in loan production, 166 in loan administration and servicing activities, 277 were involved in loan collections, 475 in branch operations and 180 in other operating and administrative activities . None of Doral Financial’s employees are represented by a labor union and Doral Financial considers its employee relations to be good. 13 Table of Contents Segment Disclosure For information regarding Doral Financial’s operating segments, refer to Note 41 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements, “Segment Information,” and the information provided under Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation, “Operating Segments” in this report. Puerto Rico is the principal market for Doral Financial. Doral Financial’s Puerto Rico-based operations accounted for 77.7% of Doral Financial’s consolidated assets as of December 31, 2011. The Puerto Rico based operations net income before taxes totaled $8.0 million while the Company’s net loss before income taxes totaled $9.0 million. The following table sets forth the geographic composition of Doral Financial’s loan originations for the periods indicated: Year EndedDecember 31 2011 2010 2009 Puerto Rico 31 % 55 % 74 % United States 69 % 45 % 26 % The increase in originations in the U.S. is due primarily to loans originated by the syndicated lending unit. Market Area and Competition Puerto Rico is Doral Financial’s primary service area. The competition in Puerto Rico for the origination of loans and attracting of deposits is substantial. Competition comes not only from local commercial banks and credit unions, but also from banking affiliates of banks headquartered in the United States, Spain and Canada. In mortgage lending, the Company also faces competition from independent mortgage banking companies. Doral Financial competes principally by offering loans with competitive features, by emphasizing the quality of its service and by pricing its range of products at competitive rates. Since 2009, Doral Financial has increased its business activities in the U.S. expanding its lending activities in the New York metropolitan area and establishing deposit taking and lending operations in northwest Florida. While these markets are competitive, Doral perceives that well managed community banks with appropriately priced products in the New York metropolitan area and northwest Florida markets can successfully compete for deposits and loans. The Company’s plans are to continue to expand its New York and northwest Florida business activities. The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico General. The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico (the “Commonwealth”), an island located in the Caribbean, is approximately 100 miles long and 35 miles wide, with an area of 3,423 square miles. According to the information published by the United States Census Bureau, the population of Puerto Rico was 3,725,789 in 2010, a decrease of 2.2% when compared to 3,808,610 in 2000. Its capital, San Juan, is located approximately 1,600 miles southeast of New York City and according to the information published by the United States Census Bureau had a population of 395,326 in 2010, compared to 434,374 in 2000. Relationship of Puerto Rico with the United States. Puerto Rico has been under the jurisdiction of the United States since 1898. Puerto Rico’s constitutional status is that of a territory of the United States, and, pursuant to the territorial clause of the U.S. Constitution, the ultimate authority over Puerto Rico is the U.S. Congress. The United States and Puerto Rico share a common defense, market and currency. Puerto Rico exercises virtually the same control over its internal affairs as do the fifty states. It differs from the states, however, in its relationship with the federal government. There is a federal district court in Puerto Rico and most federal laws are applicable to Puerto Rico. The United States postal service operates in Puerto Rico in the same manner as in the mainland United States. The people of Puerto Rico are citizens of the United States, but do not vote in national elections. 14 Table of Contents They are represented in Congress by a Resident Commissioner who has a voice in the House of Representatives, and has limited voting rights in committees and sub-committees of the House of Representatives. Most federal taxes, except those, such as social security taxes, which are imposed by mutual consent, are not levied in Puerto Rico. No federal income tax is collected from Puerto Rico residents on ordinary income earned from sources within Puerto Rico, except for certain federal employees who are subject to taxes on their salaries. Income earned by Puerto Rico residents from sources outside of Puerto Rico, however, is subject to federal income tax. The official languages of Puerto Rico are Spanish and English. Governmental Structure. The Constitution of Puerto Rico provides for the separation of powers of the executive, legislative and judicial branches of government. The Governor is elected every four years. The Legislative Assembly consists of a Senate and a House of Representatives, the members of which are elected for four-year terms. The highest local court in Puerto Rico is the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico. Decisions of the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico may be appealed to the United States Supreme Court under the same conditions as decisions from state courts. Puerto Rico also constitutes a district in the federal judiciary and has its own United States District Court. Decisions of this federal district court may be appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit and from there to the United States Supreme Court. Governmental responsibilities assumed by the central government of Puerto Rico are similar in nature to those of the various state governments. In addition, the central government of Puerto Rico assumes responsibility for local police and fire protection, education, public health and welfare programs, and economic development. The Economy. The economy of Puerto Rico is closely linked to the United States economy, as most of the external factors that affect the Puerto Rico economy (other than the price of oil) are determined by the policies of, and economic conditions prevailing in, the United States. These external factors include exports, direct investment, the amount of federal transfer payments, the level of interest rates, the rate of inflation, and tourist expenditures. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, approximately 68.1% of Puerto Rico’s exports went to the U.S. mainland, which was also the source of approximately 53.3% of Puerto Rico’s imports. In the past, the economy of Puerto Rico has generally followed economic trends in the overall United States economy. However, in recent years, economic growth in Puerto Rico has lagged behind growth in the United States. The dominant sectors of the Puerto Rico economy in terms of production and income are manufacturing and services. The manufacturing sector has undergone fundamental changes over the years as a result of an increased emphasis on higher-wage, high-technology industries, such as pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, computers, microprocessors, professional and scientific instruments, and certain high-technology machinery and equipment. The service sector, including finance, insurance, real estate, wholesale and retail trade, transportation, communications and public utilities, and other services, also plays a major role in the economy. It ranks second to manufacturing in contribution to Puerto Rico’s gross domestic product, but first in terms of contribution to Puerto Rico’s real gross national product. The service sector leads all sectors in providing employment. Puerto Rico’s economy is currently in a recession that began in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year that ended June 30, 2006, a fiscal year in which the real gross national product grew by only 0.5%. Although the Puerto Rico economy is closely linked to the United States economy, in recent fiscal years the performance of the Puerto Rico economy has lagged the performance of the United States economy. For fiscal years 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, Puerto Rico’s real gross national product decreased by 1.2%, 2.9%, 4.0% and 3.8%, respectively. According to the Puerto Rico Planning Board’s latest projections made in March 2011, Puerto Rico’s real gross national product was projected to have contracted by 1.0% during fiscal year 2011. Puerto Rico’s real gross national product for fiscal year 2012, however, is projected to grow by 0.7%. According to data published by the Puerto Rico Department of Labor, the number of persons employed in Puerto Rico during fiscal year 2011 averaged 1,077,000, a decrease of 2.3% compared to the previous fiscal year; and the unemployment rate averaged 15.9%. During the first four months of fiscal year 2012, total employment averaged 1,067,500, a decline of 1.2% with respect to the same period of the prior fiscal year; and the unemployment rate averaged 16.1%. Future growth of the Puerto Rico economy will depend on several factors including the condition of the United States economy, the relative stability of the price of oil imports, the exchange value of the United States dollar, the level of interest rates, the effectiveness of the recently approved changes to the Puerto Rico income tax 15 Table of Contents code and other tax laws, and the continuing economic uncertainty generated by the Puerto Rico government’s fiscal condition described below. Fiscal Condition. Since 2000, Puerto Rico has faced a number of fiscal challenges, including an imbalance between its General Fund total revenues and expenditures. The imbalance reached its highest level in fiscal year 2009, when the deficit was approximately $3.3 billion. Prior to fiscal year 2009, the Commonwealth bridged such deficits through the use of non-recurring measures, such as borrowing from the Government Development Bank for Puerto Rico or in the bond market, postponing the payment of various government expenses, such as payments to suppliers and utilities providers, and other one-time measures such as the use of derivatives and borrowings collateralized with government owned real estate and uncollected General Fund revenues. Fiscal Stabilization Plan. In January 2009, the Puerto Rico developed and commenced implementing a multi-year Fiscal Stabilization and Economic Reconstruction Plan designed to achieve fiscal balance, restore sustainable economic growth and safeguard the investment-grade ratings of the Commonwealth. The fiscal stabilization plan seeks to achieve budgetary balance, while addressing expected fiscal deficits in the intervening years through the implementation of a number of initiatives, including the following: (i) gradual operating expense-reduction plan through reduction of operating expenses, including payroll, which is the main component of government expenditures, and the reorganization of the Executive Branch; (ii) a combination of temporary and permanent revenue raising measures, coupled with additional tax enforcement measures; and (iii) certain financial measures which included (1) a bond issuance program through Puerto Rico Sales Tax Financing Corporation (“COFINA” by its Spanish-language acronym) and (2) restructuring of a portion of the Commonwealth’s debt service. The financial measures were anchored on the bond-issuance program of COFINA. During fiscal years 2009 and 2010, COFINA issued approximately $5.6 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, of revenue bonds payable from sales and use tax collections transferred to COFINA. The proceeds obtained from COFINA bond issuance program have been used (and are being used) to repay existing government debt (including debts with GDB), finance operating expenses of the Commonwealth for fiscal years 2009 through 2012, including costs related to the implementation of a workforce reduction plan, the funding of an economic stimulus plan, as described below, and for other purposes to address the fiscal imbalance while the fiscal stabilization plan was being implemented. During the fiscal year 2012, COFINA expects to issue approximately $2 billion of additional revenue bonds the proceeds of which will be mainly used to finance a portion of the government’s operating expenses for fiscal year 2012, refund outstanding debt obligations payable from Commonwealth appropriations, and refund certain outstanding COFINA bonds. During the last three fiscal years, the Commonwealth has been able to reduce the deficit by both increasing its revenues and decreasing its expenditures. The Commonwealth’s ability to continue reducing the deficit will depend in part on its ability to continue increasing revenues and reducing expenditures, which in turn depends on a number of factors, including improvements in general economic conditions. Economic Reconstruction Plan. The Puerto Rico government administration also developed and implemented a short-term economic reconstruction plan. The cornerstone of this plan was the implementation of federal and local economic stimulus programs. Puerto Rico was awarded approximately $6.8 billion in stimulus funds under American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) enacted by the U.S. government to provide a stimulus to the U.S. economy in the wake of the global economic downturn. The funds awarded to Puerto Rico included tax relief, expansion of unemployment benefits and other social welfare provisions, and domestic spending in education, health care, and infrastructure, among other measures. The administration complemented the federal stimulus with additional short- and medium-term supplemental stimulus measures seeking to address specific local challenges and providing investment in strategic areas. These measures included a local $500 million economic stimulus plan to supplement the federal plan. The local stimulus was composed of three main elements: (i) capital improvements; (ii) stimulus for small- and medium-sized businesses, and (iii) consumer relief in the form of direct payments to retirees, mortgage-debt restructuring for consumers that face risk of default, and consumer stimulus for the purchase of housing. 16 Table of Contents Economic Development Plan. The administration also developed the Strategic Model for a New Economy, which is a comprehensive long-term economic development plan aimed at improving Puerto Rico’s overall competitiveness and business environment and increasing private-sector participation in the Puerto Rico economy. The administration is emphasizing the following initiatives to enhance Puerto Rico’s competitive position: (i) overhauling the permitting process; (ii) reducing energy costs; (iii) reforming the tax system; (iv) promoting the development of various projects through public-private partnerships; and (v) implementing strategic initiatives targeted at specific economic sectors and development of certain strategic/regional projects. The first initiative, the reengineering of Puerto Rico’s permitting and licensing process, has already been achieved. On December 1, 2009, the Governor signed into law Act No. 161, which overhauls the existing permitting and licensing process in Puerto Rico in order to provide for a leaner and more efficient process the fosters economic development. In the short term, this restructuring is focused on eliminating the significant backlog of unprocessed permits that are currently in the pipeline of various government agencies. In the long term, the law seeks to significantly reduce the number of inter-agency processes and transactions that were required by creating a centralized, client-focused permit system that simplifies and shortens the permitting process for applicants. With respect to the second initiative, reducing energy costs, the administration enacted Acts No. 82 and 83 in July 2010, which generally provide for a new energy policy that seeks to lower energy costs and reduce energy-price volatility by reducing Puerto Rico’s dependence on fuel oil and the promotion of diverse, renewable energy technologies. Act No. 82 focuses on reducing Puerto Rico’s dependence on fossil fuels, particularly fuel oil, through the promotion of diverse, renewable-energy technologies. Act No. 83 assembles under one law the incentives for the construction and use of renewable energy sources. The third initiative involved a comprehensive review of the Commonwealth’s income tax system and approval of a tax reform directed at reducing personal and corporate income tax rates. Legislation to implement the first phase of tax reform was enacted as Act No. 171 on November 15, 2010. Legislation to implement the second phase of tax reform was enacted as Act No. 1 on January 31, 2011. The tax reform is focused on providing tax relief to individuals and corporations, providing economic development and job creation, simplifying the tax system and reducing tax evasion through enhanced tax compliance measures. In general terms, the tax reform is intended to be revenue positive for the Commonwealth as it includes, among other things, a temporary excise tax on affiliates of multinational manufacturers operating in Puerto Rico, the elimination of certain incentives and tax credits, and enhanced tax compliance measures to finance the tax rate reductions for corporations and individuals. To further stimulate economic development and cope with the fiscal crisis, the administration established a legal framework through Act No. 29 approved in June 2009 to authorize and promote the use of public-private partnerships to finance and develop infrastructure projects and operate and manage certain public assets. Public-private partnerships are long-term contracts between government and non-governmental entities to develop, operate, manage or maximize infrastructure projects and/or government services. Act No. 29, among other things, established the Puerto Rico Public-Private Partnerships Authority as the entity tasked with implementing the Commonwealth’s public policy with respect the public-private partnerships. During fiscal years 2010 and 2011 the administration evaluated and/or commenced procurement for several public-private partnership priority projects involving, among other things, the energy, transportation, water and public school infrastructure sectors. As part of the government’s initiative, the Public Private Partnership Authority (“PPP Authority”) and the Puerto Rico Highways and Transportation Authority recently completed the procurement for a concession of two toll roads in Puerto Rico. The financial closing for the transaction was completed in September 2011, and as result of this transaction, the Puerto Rico Highways and Transportation Authority received lump-sum payment of $1.136 billion and a commitment to invest $56 million in immediate improvements and comply with world-class operating standards. To modernize public school facilities throughout Puerto Rico and improve academic performance, the PPP Authority launched a program aimed at modernizing and building a selected number of public schools throughout 17 Table of Contents Puerto Rico. As of June 2011, the PPP Authority had awarded approximately $464 million in contracts and construction had begun in approximately 57 schools. In addition, during 2011 the PPP Authority and the Puerto Rico Ports Authority commenced the procurement process for a concession to finance, operate, maintain and improve the Luis Munoz Marin International Airport, the busiest airport in the Caribbean. In August 2011 they received statements of qualifications from twelve (12) world-class consortia. The PPP Authority and the Puerto Rico Ports Authority issued a request for proposals to six (6) of the potential bidders for the airport in October 2011 and expect to select a winning bidder in the first quarter of 2012. The administration has also identified strategic initiatives to promote economic growth in various sectors of the economy where the Commonwealth has competitive advantages and several strategic/regional projects aimed as fostering balanced economic development throughout the island. These projects, some of which are ongoing, include tourism and urban redevelopment projects. Unfunded Pension Benefit Obligations and Funding Shortfalls of the Retirement Systems. One of the challenges every Puerto Rico administration has faced during the past twenty years is how to address the growing unfunded pension obligations and funding shortfalls of the three government retirements systems that are funded principally with budget appropriations from the Commonwealth’s General Fund. As of June 30, 2010, the date of the latest actuarial valuations of the three retirement systems, the unfunded actuarial accrued liability (including basic and system administered benefits) for the Employees Retirement System, the Teachers Retirement System and Judiciary Retirement System were $17.8 billion, $7.1 billion and $283 million, respectively, and the funded ratios were 8.5%, 23.9% and 16.4%, respectively. Based on current employer and member contributions to the retirement systems, the unfunded actuarial accrued liabilities will continue to increase significantly, with a corresponding decrease in their funded ratios, since the annual contributions are not sufficient to fund pension benefits, and thus, are also insufficient to amortize the unfunded actuarial accrued liabilities. Because annual benefit payments and administrative expenses of the retirement systems have been significantly larger than annual employer and member contributions, the retirement systems have been forced to use investment income, borrowings and sale of investment portfolio assets to cover funding shortfalls. The funding shortfall (basic system benefits, administrative expenses and debt service in excess of contributions) for fiscal year 2011 for the Employees Retirement System, the Teachers Retirement System and Judiciary Retirement System were approximately $693 million, $268 million and $6.5 million, respectively. For fiscal year 2012, the funding shortfall is expected to be $741 million, $287 million and $8.5 million, respectively. As a result, the assets of the retirement systems are expected to continue to decline and eventually be depleted during the next seven to nine years. Since the Commonwealth and other participating employers are ultimately responsible for any funding deficiency in the three retirement systems, the depletion of the assets available to cover retirement benefits will require the Commonwealth and other participating employers to cover such funding deficiency. It is estimated that the Commonwealth would be responsible for approximately 74% of the combined annual funding deficiency of the three retirement systems, with the balance being the responsibility of the municipalities and public corporations. Ultimately, since the Commonwealth’s General Fund is required to cover a significant amount of the funding deficiency, the Commonwealth would have difficulty funding the required annual contributions unless it implements significant reforms to the retirement systems, obtains additional revenues, or takes other budgetary measures. In order to address the growing unfunded benefit obligations and funding shortfalls of the three retirement systems, the Governor of Puerto Rico established in February 2010 a special commission to make recommendations for improving the fiscal solvency of the three retirement systems. The special commission delivered its recommendations to the Governor in October 2010. As a result of the special commission’s report and the Government’s analysis, the Governor submitted two bills to the Legislative Assembly to address in part the retirement systems’ financial condition. One of the bills was enacted as Act No. 96 and resulted in the transfer of $162.5 million of funds to the Employees Retirement 18 Table of Contents System which was invested in capital appreciation bonds issued by COFINA maturing annually from 2043 to 2048 and accreting interest at 7%. The principal of the COFINA bonds will grow to approximately $1.65 billion at their maturity dates. The second bill was enacted as Act No. 114 and provides for an increase in employer contributions to the Employees Retirement System and the Teachers Retirement System of 1% of covered payroll in each of the next five fiscal years and by 1.25% of covered payroll in each of the following five fiscal years. As a result of these increases, the Employees Retirement System and the Teachers Retirement System would receive approximately $36 million and $14 million, respectively, in additional employer contributions during fiscal year 2012, and the additional employer contributions are projected to increase gradually each fiscal year to $494 million and $195 million, respectively, by fiscal year 2021. As a result of these increases in employer contributions to the Employees Retirement System and the Teachers Retirement System, the Administrator of the Retirement Systems projects that the period before depletion of assets of these two systems would be extended by three to four years. REGULATION AND SUPERVISION Described below are the material elements of selected federal and Puerto Rico laws and regulations applicable to Doral Financial and its subsidiaries. Many of these laws and regulations generally aim to protect our depositors and our customers, not necessarily our shareholders or our creditors. Any changes in applicable laws or regulations, and in their application by regulatory agencies, may materially affect our business and prospects. Proposed legislative or regulatory changes may also affect our operations. The following description summarizes some of the laws and regulations to which we are subject. References to applicable statutes and regulations are brief summaries, do not purport to be complete, and are qualified in their entirety by reference to such statutes and regulations. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). The Dodd-Frank Act has had, and will have, a broad impact on the financial services industry, including significant regulatory and compliance changes including, among other things, (i) enhanced resolution authority of troubled and failing banks and their holding companies; (ii) increased capital and liquidity requirements; (iii) increased regulatory examination fees; (iv) changes to assessments to be paid to the FDIC for federal deposit insurance; and (v) numerous other provisions designed to improve supervision and oversight of, and strengthening safety and soundness for, the financial services sector. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act establishes a new framework for systemic risk oversight within the financial system to be distributed among new and existing federal regulatory agencies, including the Financial Stability Oversight Council, the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the FDIC. A summary of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act is set forth below, along with information set forth in other parts of this “Regulation and Supervision” section. Increased Capital Standards and Enhanced Supervision. The federal banking agencies are required to establish minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements for banks and bank holding companies. These new standards will be no lower than current regulatory capital and leverage standards applicable to insured depository institutions and may, in fact, be higher when established by the agencies. The FDIC and other federal banking agencies issued a joint notice on June 14, 2011 adopting a final rule that establishes a floor for the risk-based capital requirements applicable to the largest, internationally active banking organizations. The Dodd-Frank Act also increases regulatory oversight, supervision and examination of banks, bank holding companies and their respective subsidiaries by the appropriate regulatory agency. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“Bureau”). The Dodd-Frank Act created the Bureau within the Federal Reserve. The Bureau is tasked with establishing and implementing rules and regulations under certain federal consumer protection laws with respect to the conduct of providers of certain consumer financial products and services. The Bureau has rulemaking authority over many of the statutes governing products and services offered to bank consumers. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and 19 Table of Contents regulations that are more stringent than those regulations promulgated by the Bureau, and state attorneys general are permitted to enforce consumer protection rules adopted by the Bureau against state-chartered institutions. Deposit Insurance. The Dodd-Frank Act made permanent the $250,000 deposit insurance limit for insured deposits. Amendments to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act also revised the assessment base against which an insured depository institution’s deposit insurance premiums paid to the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”) will be calculated. Under the amendments, the assessment base will no longer be the institution’s deposit base, but rather its average consolidated total assets less its average tangible equity during the assessment period. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act made changes to the minimum designated reserve ratio of the DIF, increasing the minimum from 1.15 percent to 1.35 percent of the estimated amount of total insured deposits and eliminating the requirement that the FDIC pay dividends to depository institutions when the reserve ratio exceeds certain thresholds. In December 2010, the FDIC increased the reserve ratio to 2.0 percent. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides that depository institutions are now permitted to pay interest on demand deposit accounts, and in this respect the Federal Reserve approved a final rule repealing Regulation Q on July 14, 2011. Transactions with Affiliates. The Dodd-Frank Act enhances the requirements for certain transactions with affiliates under Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, including an expansion of the definition of “covered transactions” and increasing the amount of time for which collateral requirements regarding covered transactions must be maintained. Transactions with Insiders. Insider transaction limitations are expanded through the strengthening of loan restrictions to insiders and the expansion of the types of transactions subject to the various limits, including derivative transactions, repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements and securities lending or borrowing transactions. Restrictions are also placed on certain asset sales to and from an insider to an institution, including requirements that such sales be on market terms and, in certain circumstances, approved by the institution’s board of directors. Enhanced Lending Limits. The Dodd-Frank Act strengthens the existing limits on a depository institution’s credit exposure to one borrower. Current banking law limits a depository institution’s ability to extend credit to one person (or group of related persons) in an amount exceeding certain thresholds. The Dodd-Frank Act expands the scope of these restrictions to include credit exposure arising from derivative transactions, repurchase agreements, and securities lending and borrowing transactions. Compensation Practices. The Dodd-Frank Act provides that the appropriate federal regulators must establish standards prohibiting as an unsafe and unsound practice any compensation plan of a bank holding company or other “covered financial institution” that provides an insider or other employee with “excessive compensation” or could lead to a material financial loss to such firm. On March 30, 2011, the FDIC and other federal banking and securities agencies issued a joint notice of proposed rulemaking on incentive-based compensation arrangements as required by the Dodd- Frank Act. The proposed rule has five key components: (i) requiring the deferral of at least 50% of incentive compensation for a minimum of three years for executive officers of financial institutions with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more; (ii) prohibiting incentive-based compensation arrangements for executive officers, employees, directors and principal shareholders (“covered persons”) of financial institutions with more than $1 billion in assets that would encourage inappropriate risks by providing excessive compensation; (iii) prohibiting incentive-based compensation arrangements for covered persons of financial institutions with more than $1 billion in assets that would expose the institution to inappropriate risks by providing compensation that could lead to material financial loss; (iv) requiring policies and procedures of financial institutions with more than $1 billion in assets for incentive-based compensation arrangements that are commensurate with the size and complexity of the institution; and (v) requiring annual reports on incentive compensation structures to the institution’s appropriate federal regulator. Debit Card Interchange Fees and Routing. The Dodd-Frank Act amends the Electronic Funds Transfer Act to, among other things, give the Federal Reserve the authority to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged for electronic debit transactions by payment card issuers having assets over $10 billion and to enforce a new statutory requirement that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the actual cost of the transaction to the issuer. In June 2011 the Federal Reserve issued the final rule, which generally became effective on October 1, 2011, that establishes standards for debit card interchange fees and prohibits network exclusivity 20 Table of Contents arrangements and routing restrictions. Under the new Regulation II, the maximum permissible interchange fee that an issuer may receive for an electronic transaction will be the sum of 21 cents per transaction and 5 basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction. In accordance with the Dodd-Frank Act, issuers that, together with their affiliates, have assets of less than $10 billion are exempt from the debit card interchange fee standards. The new regulation also prohibits all issuers and networks from restricting the number of networks over which electronic debit transactions may be processed to less than two unaffiliated networks. Issuers and networks are also prohibited from inhibiting a merchant’s ability to direct the routing of the electronic debt transaction over any network that the issuer has enabled to process them. We expect that many of the requirements called for in the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented over time, and most will be subject to implementing regulations over the course of several years. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on financial institutions’ operations is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make necessary changes in order to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Mortgage Origination and Servicing Activities Federal Regulation Doral Financial’s mortgage origination and servicing operations are subject to the rules and regulations of the FHA, VA, RHS, FNMA, FHLMC, HUD and GNMA with respect to the origination, processing, selling and servicing of mortgage loans and the issuance and sale of mortgage-backed securities. Those rules and regulations, among other things, prohibit discrimination and establish underwriting guidelines, which include provisions for inspections and appraisals, require credit reports on prospective borrowers and fix maximum loan amounts, and with respect to VA loans, fix maximum interest rates. Moreover, lenders such as Doral Financial are required annually to submit to FHA, VA, RHS, FNMA, FHLMC, GNMA and HUD audited financial statements, and each regulatory entity has its own requirements. Doral Financial’s affairs are also subject to supervision and examination by FHA, VA, RHS, FNMA, FHLMC, GNMA and HUD at all times to ensure compliance with the applicable regulations, policies and procedures. Mortgage origination activities are subject to, among others, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Federal Truth-in-Lending Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder which, among other things, prohibit discrimination and require the disclosure of certain basic information to mortgagors concerning credit terms and settlement costs. The Dodd-Frank Act included certain provisions that, upon the approval of final regulations, create certain new standards for residential mortgage lenders. The principal restrictions are the following: (i) prohibits mortgage lenders and brokers from giving or receiving compensation that varies based on loan terms other than the principal amount of the loan (this prohibition effectively eliminates yield spread premiums); (ii) requires mortgage lenders to determine that the consumer has the reasonable ability to repay the loan according to its terms based upon a variety of factors (including credit history, current income, expected income, and current obligations); and (iii) creates a safe harbor for mortgage lenders with respect to “qualified mortgages” (a “qualified mortgage” is a mortgage that meets the following requirements: term does not exceed 30 years, the consumer may not defer the payment of principal, points and fees may not exceed 3% of the amount of the loan, negative amortization is not allowed, and no balloon payments are permitted except under certain circumstances). The Federal Reserve issued on April 19, 2011 a proposed rule under Regulation Z that would implement these requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Federal Reserve noted that this rulemaking would be finalized by the Bureau rather than the Federal Reserve because rulemaking authority under Regulation Z was transferred to the Bureau on July 21, 2011. Puerto Rico Regulation Doral Mortgage and Doral Financial are licensed by the by the Office of the Commissioner of Financial Institutions of Puerto Rico (the “Office of the Commissioner”) as mortgage banking institutions. Such 21 Table of Contents authorization to act as mortgage banking institutions must be renewed as of December 1 of each year. In the past, Doral Financial and its subsidiaries have not had any difficulty in renewing their authorizations to act as mortgage banking institutions and management is unaware of any existing practices, conditions or violations which would result in Doral Financial being unable to receive such authorization in the future. Doral Financial is also subject to regulation by the Office of the Commissioner, with respect to, among other things, maximum origination fees and prepayment penalties on certain types of mortgage loan products. Doral Financial’s operations in the mainland United States are subject to regulation by state regulators in the states in which it conducts a mortgage loan business. Effective in April 2011, Act No. 247 of 2010 became effective as the new law to regulate the business of mortgage loans in Puerto Rico and the licensing of persons and entities involved in making mortgage loans in Puerto Rico. Act No. 247 repealed the Puerto Rico Mortgage Banking Institutions Law of 1973, as amended. Act No. 247 requires the prior approval of the Office of the Commissioner for the acquisition of control of any mortgage banking institution licensed under such law. For purposes of Act No. 247, the term “control” means the power to direct or influence decisively, directly or indirectly, the management or policies of a mortgage banking institution. Act No. 247 provides that a transaction that results in the holding of less than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of a mortgage banking institution shall not be considered a change of control. Pursuant to Section 3.10 of the Act No. 247, upon receipt of notice of a proposed transaction that may result in a change of control, the Office of the Commissioner is obligated to make such investigations as it deems necessary to review the transaction. On July 30, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (the “Housing Recovery Act”). Title V of the Housing Recovery Act, entitled The Secure and Fair Enforcement Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 (“SAFE Act”), recognizes and builds on states’ efforts by requiring all mortgage loan originators, regardless of the type of entity they are employed by, to be either state-licensed or federally-registered. Under the SAFE Act, all states (including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico) must implement a mortgage originator licensing process that meets certain minimum standards and must license mortgage originators through a Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and Registry (the “NMLS”). As a result of this federal legislation, the Office of the Commissioner announced that it would begin accepting submissions through NMLS on April 2, 2009 and that all mortgage lenders/servicers or mortgage brokers operating in Puerto Rico were required to be duly registered through the NMLS commencing June 1, 2009. In terms of federal registrations, on January 31, 2011 the FDIC and other federal banking agencies issued a notice stating that the initial registration period for federal registrations of employees of banks and savings associations ran from January 31, 2011 to June 29, 2011. This Federal registration is required by the SAFE Act for employees of banks and savings associations that act as originators of residential mortgage loans and will also be accomplished through the NMLS. Banking Activities Federal Regulation General Doral Financial is a bank holding company subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the “BHC Act”), as amended by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (the “Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act”). As a bank holding company, Doral Financial’s activities and those of its banking and non-banking subsidiaries are limited to banking activities and such other activities the Federal Reserve has determined to be closely related to the business of banking. Under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, financial holding companies can engage in a broader range of financial activities than bank holding companies. Given the difficulties faced by Doral Financial following the restatement of its audited financial statements for the period from January 1, 2000 to December 31, 2004, the Company filed a notice with the Federal Reserve withdrawing its election to be treated as a financial holding company, which became effective on January 8, 2008. See “— Financial Modernization Legislation” below for a description of the expanded powers of financial holding companies. The withdrawal of its election to be treated as a financial holding company has not adversely affected and is not expected to adversely affect Doral Financial’s current operations, all of which are permitted 22 Table of Contents for bank holding companies that have not elected to be treated as financial holding companies. Specifically, Doral Financial is authorized to engage in insurance agency activities in Puerto Rico pursuant to Regulation K promulgated by the Federal Reserve under the BHC Act. Under the BHC Act, Doral Financial may not, directly or indirectly, acquire the ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of voting shares of a bank or another bank holding company without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. Doral Bank is subject to supervision and examination by applicable federal and state banking agencies, including the FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner. Doral Bank is subject to requirements and restrictions under federal and state law, including requirements to maintain reserves against deposits, restrictions on the types and amounts of loans that may be granted and the interest that may be charged thereon, and limitations on the types of other investments that may be made and the types of services that may be offered. Various consumer laws and regulations also affect the operations of Doral Financial’s banking and other subsidiaries. In addition to the impact of regulation, commercial banks are affected significantly by the actions of the Federal Reserve as it attempts to control the money supply and credit availability in order to influence the economy. Federal and state banking laws grant substantial enforcement power to federal and state banking regulators. The enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties, to issue cease and desist or removal orders and to initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations and institution-affiliated parties. In general, these enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. Other actions or inactions may provide the basis for enforcement action, including misleading or untimely reports filed with regulatory authorities. On March 16, 2006, the Company and Doral Bank entered into consent orders with the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner. On January 14, 2008, the FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner jointly released Doral Bank from the March 16, 2006 consent order. The consent order between the Company and the Federal Reserve remains in effect. Please refer to Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings for additional information regarding regulatory enforcement matters. Doral Financial’s banking and other subsidiaries are subject to certain regulations promulgated by the Federal Reserve including, but not limited to, Regulation B (Equal Credit Opportunity Act), Regulation DD (Truth in Savings Act), Regulation E (Electronic Funds Transfer Act), Regulation F (Limits on Exposure to Other Banks), Regulation Z (Truth-in-Lending Act), Regulation CC (Expedited Funds Availability Act), Regulation X (Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act), Regulation BB (Community Reinvestment Act) and Regulation C (Home Mortgage Disclosure Act). In general terms, these regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with customers in taking deposits and making loans. Doral Financial’s banking and other subsidiaries must comply with the applicable provisions of these regulations as part of their ongoing customer relations. As mentioned above, the Dodd-Frank Act transferred rulemaking authority for number of consumer financial protection laws from the Federal Reserve and other federal agencies to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “Bureau”) as of July 21, 2011. During the last quarter of 2011, the Bureau commenced the process of republishing the regulations implementing these laws with technical and conforming changes to reflect the transfer of authority and certain other changes made by the Dodd-Frank Act. For example, the Bureau issued interim final rules that became effective on December 30, 2011 establishing the following new regulations: Regulation X (Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act), Regulation P (Privacy of Consumer Information), Regulation DD (Truth in Savings Act), Regulation V (Fair Credit Reporting Act), Regulation B (Equal Credit Opportunity Act), Regulation Z (Truth in Lending Act), and Regulation E (Electronic Funds Transfer Act). In general terms, the interim final rules substantially mirror the existing regulations being substituted and impose no new substantive obligations on the regulated entities. Holding Company Structure Doral Bank, as well as any other insured depository institution subsidiary organized by Doral Financial in the future, is subject to restrictions under federal law that governs transactions with Doral Financial or other non-banking subsidiaries of Doral Financial, whether in the form of loans, other extensions of credit, investments or asset purchases. Such transactions by Doral Bank with Doral Financial, or with any one of Doral Financial’s non-banking subsidiaries, are limited in amount to 10% of Doral Bank’s capital stock and surplus and, with respect to Doral Financial and all of its non-banking subsidiaries, to an aggregate of 20% of Doral Bank’s capital stock and surplus. Please refer to Transactions with Affiliates and Related Parties, below. 23 Table of Contents Under Federal Reserve policy, which has been codified by the Dodd-Frank Act, a bank holding company such as Doral Financial is expected to act as a source of financial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and to commit resources to support each such subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when, absent such policy, the bank holding company might not otherwise provide such support. In furtherance of this policy, the Federal Reserve may require a bank holding company to terminate any activity or relinquish control of a nonbank subsidiary (other than a nonbank subsidiary of a bank) upon the Federal Reserve’s determination that such activity or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial soundness or stability of any subsidiary depository institution of the bank holding company. Further, federal bank regulatory authorities have additional discretion to require a bank holding company to divest itself of any bank or nonbank subsidiary if the bank regulatory authority determines that divestiture may aid the depository institution’s financial condition. In addition, any capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company’s reorganization in a Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary depository institution will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority of payment. As a bank holding company, Doral Financial’s right to participate in the assets of any subsidiary upon the latter’s liquidation or reorganization will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors (including depositors in the case of depository institution subsidiaries), except to the extent that Doral Financial may itself be a creditor with recognized claims against the subsidiary. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the “FDIA”), a depository institution, such as Doral Bank, the deposits of which are insured by the FDIC, can be held liable for any loss incurred by, or reasonably expected to be incurred by, the FDIC in connection with (i) the default of a commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institution; or (ii) any assistance provided by the FDIC to any commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institution “in danger of default.” “Default” is defined generally as the appointment of a conservator or a receiver and “in danger of default” is defined generally as the existence of certain conditions indicating that a default is likely to occur in the absence of regulatory assistance. In some circumstances (depending upon the amount of the loss or anticipated loss suffered by the FDIC), cross-guarantee liability may result in the ultimate failure or insolvency of one or more insured depository institutions in a holding company structure. Any obligation or liability owed by a subsidiary depository institution to its parent company is subordinated to the subsidiary bank’s cross-guarantee liability with respect to commonly controlled insured depository institutions. On December 20, 2011 the Federal Reserve issued a proposed rule to strengthen regulation and supervision of large bank holding companies and systemically important nonbank financial firms. The proposed rule, which includes a wide range of measures addressing issues such as capital, liquidity, credit exposure, stress testing, risk management and early remediation requirements, is mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act. The proposed rule applies to all US bank holding companies with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more and any nonbank financial companies designated by the Financial Stability Oversight Council as systemically important nonbank financial companies. The proposed requirement to conduct annual stress tests would apply to any financial company with more than $10 billion in total consolidated assets that is regulated by a primary federal financial regulatory authority. The proposed rule also states that the Federal Reserve may determine that any bank holding company, which is not a covered company under the proposed rule, shall be subject to one or more of the standards established under the proposed rule if the Federal Reserve determines that doing so is necessary or appropriate to promote the safety and soundness of such bank holding company or to promote financial stability. The Federal Reserve is proposing that covered firms would need to comply with many of the enhanced standards a year after they are finalized, and that the requirements relating to stress testing to take effect shortly after the proposed rule is finalized. On January 17, 2012, the FDIC issued a proposed rule that would require certain large depository institutions to conduct annual capital adequacy stress tests. The proposed rule, which implements a requirement of the Dodd-Frank Act, would apply to state nonmember banks with total consolidated assets of more than $10 billion. The proposed rule defines “stress test” as a process to assess the potential impact of economic and 24 Table of Contents financial conditions on the consolidated earnings, losses and capital of a bank over a set planning horizon, taking into account the current condition of the bank and its risks, exposures, strategies, and activities. Financial Modernization Legislation As discussed above, on January 8, 2008, Doral Financial withdrew its election to be treated as a financial holding company. Under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, bank holding companies, all of whose depository institutions are “well capitalized” and “well managed,” as defined in the BHC Act, and which obtain satisfactory Community Reinvestment Act ratings, may elect to be treated as financial holding companies (“FHCs”). FHCs are permitted to engage in a broader spectrum of activities than those permitted to other bank holding companies. FHCs can engage in any activities that are “financial” in nature, including insurance underwriting and brokerage, and underwriting and dealing in securities without a revenue limit or other limits applicable to foreign securities affiliates (which include Puerto Rico securities affiliates for these purposes). As noted above, the withdrawal of financial holding company status has not adversely affected and is not expected to adversely affect Doral Financial’s current operations. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act also modified other laws, including laws related to financial privacy and community reinvestment. The new financial privacy provisions generally prohibit financial institutions; including Doral Financial’s mortgage banking and banking subsidiaries, from disclosing non-public personal financial information to third parties unless customers have the opportunity to “opt out” of the disclosure. Sarbanes-Oxley Act The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”) implemented a range of corporate governance and accounting measures to increase corporate responsibility, to provide for enhanced penalties for accounting and auditing improprieties at publicly traded companies, and to protect investors by improving the adequacy and reliability of disclosures under federal securities laws. In addition, SOX established membership requirements and responsibilities for the audit committee, imposed restrictions on the relationship between the Company and external auditors, imposed additional responsibilities for the external financial statements on the chief executive officer and chief financial officer, expanded the disclosure requirements for corporate insiders, required management to evaluate its disclosure controls and procedures and its internal control over financial reporting, and required the auditors to issue a report on the internal control over financial reporting. Since the 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company has included in its annual report on Form 10-K its management’s assessment regarding the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. The internal control report includes a statement of management’s responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company, management’s assessment as to the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on management’s evaluation as of year-end; and the frame work used by management as criteria for evaluating the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Capital Adequacy Under the Federal Reserve’s risk-based capital guidelines for bank holding companies, the minimum guidelines for the ratio of qualifying total capital (“Total Capital”) to risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit) is 8%. At least half of Total Capital is to be comprised of common equity, retained earnings, minority interests in unconsolidated subsidiaries, noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and a limited amount of cumulative perpetual preferred stock, in the case of a bank holding company, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets discussed below (“Tier 1 Capital”). The remainder may consist of a limited amount of subordinated debt, other preferred stock, certain other instruments and a limited amount of loan and lease loss reserves (“Tier 2 Capital”). In computing total risk-weighted assets, bank and bank holding company assets are given risk-weights of 0%, 20%, 50% and 100% (certain non-investment grade mortgage-backed securities and residual interests have risk-weights of 200%). In addition, certain off-balance sheet items are given similar credit conversion factors to convert them to asset equivalent amounts to which an appropriate risk-weight will apply. Most loans will be 25 Table of Contents assigned to the 100% risk category, except for performing first mortgage loans fully secured by 1- to 4-family and certain multi-family residential property, which carry a 50% risk rating. Most investment securities (including, primarily, general obligation claims on states or other political subdivisions of the United States) will be assigned to the 20% category, except for municipal or state revenue bonds, which have a 50% risk-weight, and direct obligations of the U.S. Treasury or obligations backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government, which have a 0% risk-weight. In covering off-balance sheet items, direct credit substitutes, including general guarantees and standby letters of credit backing financial obligations, are given a 100% risk factor. Transaction-related contingencies such as bid bonds, standby letters of credit backing non-financial obligations, and undrawn commitments (including commercial credit lines with an initial maturity of more than one year) have a 50% risk factor. Short-term commercial letters of credit are converted at 20% and certain short-term unconditionally cancelable commitments have a 0% factor. In addition, the Federal Reserve has established minimum leverage ratio guidelines for bank holding companies. These guidelines provide for a minimum ratio of Tier 1 Capital to total assets, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets (the “Leverage Ratio”) of 3% for bank holding companies that have the highest regulatory rating or have implemented the Federal Reserve’s market risk capital measure. All other bank holding companies are required to maintain a minimum Leverage Ratio of 4%. The guidelines also provide that banking organizations experiencing significant internal growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels, without significant reliance on intangible assets. Furthermore, the guidelines indicate that the Federal Reserve will continue to consider a “tangible Tier 1 Leverage Ratio” and other indicators of capital strength in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities. The tangible Tier 1 leverage ratio is the ratio of a banking organization’s Tier 1 Capital, less all intangibles, to average total assets, less all intangibles. The FDIC has established regulatory capital requirements for state non-member insured banks, such as Doral Bank, that are substantially similar to those adopted by the Federal Reserve for bank holding companies. On March 17, 2006, Doral Financial entered into a consent order with the Federal Reserve, pursuant to which Doral Financial submitted a capital plan in which it established a target minimum leverage ratio of 5.5% for Doral Financial and 6.0% for Doral Bank. Please refer to Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings for additional information regarding Doral Financial’s regulatory matters. Set forth below are Doral Financial’s and Doral Bank’s capital ratios at December 31, 2011, based on existing Federal Reserve and FDIC guidelines: DoralFinancial DoralBank (2) WellCapitalizedMinimum Total capital ratio (total capital to risk weighted assets) 13.4 % 14.3 % 10.0 % Tier 1 capital ratio (Tier 1 capital to risk weighted assets) 12.2 % 13.0 % 6.0 % Leverage ratio (1) 9.1 % 8.6 % 5.0 % (1) Tier 1 capital to average assets. (2) Doral Bank’s capital ratios include Doral Bank’s U.S. operations figures pursuant to the merger transaction completed on October 1, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, Doral Bank was in compliance with all the regulatory capital requirements that were applicable to it as a state non-member bank. Please refer to Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, “— Regulatory Capital Ratios” for additional information regarding Doral Financial’s regulatory capital ratios. As of December 31, 2011, Doral Bank was considered a well-capitalized bank for purposes of prompt corrective action regulations adopted by the FDIC pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991. During the second and third quarters of 2010, the Board of Directors of Doral Financial approved capital contributions to Doral Bank totaling $194.0 million. During 2011 no capital contributions were made by Doral Financial to Doral Bank. 26 Table of Contents Failure to meet minimum regulatory capital requirements could result in the initiation of certain mandatory and additional discretionary actions by banking regulators against Doral Financial and its banking subsidiary that, if undertaken, could have a material adverse effect on Doral Financial, such as a variety of enforcement remedies, including, with respect to an insured bank, the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC, and to certain restrictions on its business. See “FDICIA” below. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, federal banking agencies are required to establish minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements for banks and bank holding companies. These new standards will be no lower than current regulatory capital and leverage standards currently applicable to insured depository institutions and may, in fact, be higher when established by the federal banking agencies. The FDIC and other federal banking agencies issued a joint notice on June 14, 2011 adopting a final rule that establishes a floor for the risk-based capital requirements applicable to the largest, internationally active banking organizations. Basel Capital Standards The current risk-based capital guidelines are based upon the 1988 capital accord of the International Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, a committee of central banks and bank supervisors and regulators from the major industrialized countries that develops broad policy guidelines for use by each country’s supervisors in determining the supervisory policies they apply. A new international accord, referred to as Basel II, became mandatory for large or “core” international banks outside the U.S. in 2008 (total assets of $250 billion or more or consolidated foreign exposures of $10 billion or more) and emphasizes internal assessment of credit, market and operational risk, as well as supervisory assessment and market discipline in determining minimum capital requirements. It is optional for other banks. In September 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervisors of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee, published its “calibrated” capital standards for major banking institutions, referred to as Basel III. Under these standards, when fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, banking institutions will be required to maintain heightened Tier 1 common equity, Tier 1 capital, and total capital ratios, as well as maintaining a “capital conservation buffer.” The Tier 1 common equity and Tier 1 capital ratio requirements will be phased-in incrementally between January 1, 2013 and January 1, 2015; the deductions from common equity made in calculating Tier 1 common equity will be phased-in incrementally over a four-year period commencing on January 1, 2014; and the capital conservation buffer will be phased-in incrementally between January 1, 2016 and January 1, 2019. The Basel Committee also announced that a countercyclical buffer of 0% to 2.5% of common equity or other fully loss-absorbing capital will be implemented according to national circumstances as an extension of the conservation buffer. The U.S. banking agencies have not yet proposed regulations implementing Basel III. Notwithstanding the release of the Basel III framework as a final framework, the Basel Committee is considering further amendments to Basel III. In addition to Basel III, Dodd-Frank Act requires or permits the Federal banking agencies to adopt regulations affecting the capital requirements of financial institutions in a number of respects, including potentially more stringent capital requirements. The ultimate impact on Doral Financial and Doral Bank of the new capital and liquidity standards that may be adopted cannot be determined at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including the final regulatory actions taken by Federal banking regulators. However, any requirement that Doral Financial and Doral Bank maintain more capital, with common equity as a more predominant component, or meet new liquidity requirements, could significantly affect our financial condition, operations, capital position and ability to pursue certain business opportunities. Prompt Corrective Action under FDICIA Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 and the regulations promulgated thereunder (“FDICIA”), federal banking regulators must take prompt corrective action with respect to depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. FDICIA and the regulations thereunder, establish five capital tiers: “well capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized,” and “critically undercapitalized.” A depository institution is deemed to be well capitalized if it maintains a Leverage Ratio of at least 5%, a risk-based Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6% and a risk-based Total Capital ratio of at least 10%, and is not subject to any written agreement or regulatory directive 27 Table of Contents to meet a specific capital level. A depository institution is deemed to be adequately capitalized if it is not well capitalized but maintains a Leverage Ratio of at least 4% (or at least 3% if given the highest regulatory rating and not experiencing or anticipating significant growth), a risk-based Tier l capital ratio of at least 4% and a risk-based Total Capital ratio of at least 8%. A depository institution is deemed to be undercapitalized if it fails to meet the standards for adequately capitalized institutions (unless it is deemed to be significantly or critically undercapitalized). An institution is deemed to be significantly undercapitalized if it has a Leverage Ratio of less than 3%, a risk-based Tier 1 capital ratio of less than 3% or a risk-based Total Capital ratio of less than 6%. An institution is deemed to be critically undercapitalized if it has tangible equity equal to 2% or less of total assets. A depository institution may be deemed to be in a capitalization category that is lower than is indicated by its actual capital position if it receives a less than satisfactory examination rating in any one of four categories. At December 31, 2011, Doral Bank’s capital exceeded the well capitalized standards. Doral Bank’s capital categories, as determined by applying the prompt corrective action provisions of FDICIA, may not constitute an accurate representation of the overall financial condition or prospects of Doral Bank, and should be considered in conjunction with other available information regarding Doral Bank’s financial condition and results of operations. FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital distribution (including payment of a dividend) or paying any management fee to its holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. Undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to restrictions on borrowing from the Federal Reserve System. In addition, undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to growth limitations and are required to submit capital restoration plans. A depository institution’s holding company must guarantee the capital plan, up to an amount equal to the lesser of (i) 5% of the depository institution’s assets at the time it becomes undercapitalized or (ii) the amount of the capital deficiency when the institution fails to comply with the plan. The federal banking agencies may not accept a capital plan without determining, among other things, that the plan is based on realistic assumptions and is likely to succeed in restoring the depository institution’s capital. If a depository institution fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it were significantly undercapitalized. Significantly undercapitalized depository institutions may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to appointment of a receiver or conservator. The capital-based prompt corrective action provisions of FDICIA and their implementing regulations apply to FDIC-insured depository institutions such as Doral Bank, but they are not directly applicable to bank holding companies, such as Doral Financial, which control such institutions. However, federal banking agencies have indicated that, in regulating bank holding companies, they may take appropriate action at the holding company level based on their assessment of the effectiveness of supervisory actions imposed upon subsidiary insured depository institutions pursuant to such provisions and regulations. Interstate Banking Effective June 1, 1997, the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 (the “Riegle-Neal Act”) amended the FDIA and certain other statutes to permit state and national banks with different home states to merge across state lines, with the approval of the appropriate federal banking agency, unless the home state of a participating bank had passed legislation prior to May 31, 1997, expressly prohibiting interstate mergers. Under the Riegle-Neal Act amendments, once a state or national bank has established branches in a state, that bank may establish and acquire additional branches at any location in the state at which any bank involved in the interstate merger transaction could have established or acquired branches under applicable federal or state law. If a state opts out of interstate branching within the specified time period, no bank in any other state may establish a branch in the state which has opted out, whether through an acquisition or de novo. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, national banks and state banks are now able to establish branches in any state if that state would permit the establishment of the branch by a state bank chartered in that state. The amendments now permit a state bank from any state to branch into any other state as if such bank were chartered in that state. 28 Table of Contents Dividend Restrictions The Company is subject to certain restrictions generally imposed on Puerto Rico corporations with respect to the declaration and payment of dividends (i.e., that dividends may be paid out only from the Company’s net assets in excess of capital or, in the absence of such excess, from the Company’s net earnings for such fiscal year and/or the preceding fiscal year). The Federal Reserve Board has also issued a policy statement that, as a matter of prudent banking, a bank holding company should generally not maintain a given rate of cash dividends unless its net income available to common shareholders has been sufficient to fund fully the dividends and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the organization’s capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. On February 24, 2009, the Federal Reserve published a supervisory letter on “Applying Supervisory Guidance and Regulations on the Payment of Dividends, Stock Redemptions, and Stock Repurchases at Bank Holding Companies” (the “Supervisory Letter”), which discusses the ability of bank holding companies to declare dividends and to redeem or repurchase equity securities. The Supervisory Letter is generally consistent with prior Federal Reserve supervisory policies and guidance, although it places greater emphasis on discussions with the regulators prior to dividend declarations and redemption or repurchase decisions even when not explicitly required by the regulations. The Federal Reserve provides that the principles discussed in the letter are applicable to all bank holding companies, but are especially relevant for bank holding companies that are experiencing financial difficulties. The Supervisory Letter provides that a board of directors should “eliminate, defer, or severely limit” dividends if: (i) the bank holding company’s net income available to shareholders for the past four quarters, net of dividends paid during that period, is not sufficient to fully fund the dividends; (ii) the bank holding company’s rate of earnings retention is inconsistent with capital needs and overall macroeconomic outlook; or (iii) the bank holding company will not meet, or is in danger of not meeting, its minimum regulatory capital adequacy ratios. The Supervisory Letter further suggests that bank holding companies should inform the Federal Reserve in advance of paying a dividend that: (i) exceeds the earnings for the quarter in which the dividend is being paid; or (ii) could result in a material adverse change to the organization’s capital structure. The payment of dividends to Doral Financial by Doral Bank may be affected by regulatory requirements and policies, such as the maintenance of adequate capital. If, in the opinion of the applicable regulatory authority, a depository institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in, or is about to engage in, an unsafe or unsound practice, (depending on the financial condition of the depository institution, could include the payment of dividends), such authority may require, after notice and hearing, that such depository institution cease and desist from such practice. The FDIC has indicated that the payment of dividends would constitute unsafe and unsound practice if the payment would deplete a depository institution’s capital base to an inadequate level. Moreover, the FDIC has issued a policy statement that generally provides that insured banks should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. In addition, all insured depository institutions are subject to the capital-based limitations required by FDICIA. Please refer to “-FDICIA” above for additional information. On March 16, 2006, Doral Financial and Doral Bank entered into consent orders with the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner. The mutually agreed upon orders prohibit Doral Bank from paying dividends to Doral Financial without obtaining prior written approval from the FDIC and Federal Reserve, and the Federal Reserve Order prohibits Doral Financial from paying dividends to its stockholders without the prior written approval of the Federal Reserve. The FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner lifted their consent order on January 14, 2008. The consent order with the Federal Reserve remains in effect. Please refer to “Regulation and Supervision — Banking Activities — Puerto Rico Regulation,” below, for a description of certain restrictions on Doral Bank’s ability to pay dividends under Puerto Rico law. FDIC Insurance Assessments The deposits of Doral Bank are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) of the FDIC, and are therefore subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments. 29 Table of Contents As mentioned above, the Dodd-Frank Act permanently raised the basic limit on deposit insurance by the FDIC from $100,000 to $250,000. The coverage limit is per depositor, per insured depository institution for each account ownership category. The Dodd-Frank Act also set a new minimum DIF reserve ratio at 1.35% of estimated insured deposits. The FDIC is required to attain this ratio by September 30, 2020. In December 2010, the FDIC approved a final rule raising its industry target ratio of reserves to insured deposits to 2%, 65 basis points above the statutory minimum, but the FDIC does not project that goal to be met until 2027. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act will have a significant impact on the calculation of deposit insurance assessment premiums going forward. Specifically, the Dodd-Frank Act generally requires the FDIC to define the deposit insurance assessment base for an insured depository institution as an amount equal to the institution’s average consolidated total assets during the assessment period minus average tangible equity. The FDIC issued a final rule that implements this change to the assessment calculation on February 7, 2011, but has said that the new assessment rate schedule should result in the collection of assessment revenue that is approximately revenue neutral (although the amounts that individual depository institutions will pay may change) even though the new assessment base under the Dodd-Frank Act is larger than the current assessment base. As presently done under the previous rule, the assessment rate of a depository institution will be determined according to its supervisory ratings and capital levels, with adjustments for the depository institution’s unsecured debt and brokered deposits. The deposit insurance rates for depository institutions under the new rule range from 2.5 to 45 basis points per $100 of the assessment base (average consolidated assets minus average tangible equity). The new rule became effective for the quarter beginning April 1, 2011, and was reflected in the June 30, 2011 fund balance and the invoices for assessments due September 30, 2011. The FDIC rule also provides the FDIC’s board with the flexibility to adopt actual rates that are higher or lower than the total base assessment rates adopted without notice and comment, if certain conditions are met. Under the previous rule, the amount of the assessment was a function of the institution’s risk category, of which there are four, and the assessment base. An institution’s risk category was determined according to its supervisory ratings and capital levels and was used to determine the institution’s assessment rate. The assessment rate for risk categories was calculated according to a formula, which relied on supervisory ratings and either financial ratios or long-term debt ratings. An insured bank’s assessment base was determined by the balance of its insured deposits. Because the system was risk-based, it allowed banks to pay lower assessments to the FDIC as their capital levels and supervisory ratings improve. By the same token, if these indicators deteriorate, the institution would have to pay higher assessments to the FDIC. Under the previous rule, deposit insurance rates for depository institutions ranged from 7 to 77.5 basis points per $100 of assessable deposits based upon assessment rates that were calculated based upon the depository institution’s risk rating as adjusted by its levels of unsecured debt, secured liabilities, and brokered deposits. Under the FDIA, the FDIC also has the authority to impose special assessments upon insured depository institutions when deemed necessary by the FDIC’s board. The FDIC adopted a final rule, in May 2009, effective June 30, 2009, that imposed a special assessment of five cents for every $100 on each insured depository institution’s assets minus its Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, subject to a cap equal to 10 cents per $100 of assessable deposits for the second quarter of 2009. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted the final rule implementing a prepayment assessment for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 in order to strengthen the cash position of the DIF. Our total prepaid assessment was $67.1 million, which according to the final rule was recorded as a prepaid expense as of December 30, 2009. The prepaid assessment will be amortized and recognized by Doral Financial as an expense over the period from 2010 to 2012. As of December 31, 2011 the amortized balance of the prepaid assessment was $29.6 million. The Deposit Insurance Funds Act of 1996 separated the Financing Corporation assessment to service the interest on its bond obligations from the DIF assessments. The amount assessed on individual institutions by the Financing Corporation is in addition to the amount, if any, paid for deposit insurance according to the FDIC’s risk-related assessment rate schedules. The current Financing Corporation annual assessment rate is $0.0102 to 30 Table of Contents $0.01004 cents per $100 of deposits. These assessments will continue until the Financing Corporation bonds mature in 2019. As of December 31, 2011, Doral Bank had an FDIC-insurance assessment base of approximately $6.7 billion. Temporary FDIC Insurance of Non-Interest Bearing Transaction Accounts The Dodd-Frank Act amended the FDIA to fully insure the amounts deposited in non-interest bearing transaction accounts at all insured depository institutions from December 31, 2010 until December 31, 2012. This amendment became effective on December 31, 2010, which was the date that the FDIC’s former Transaction Account Guarantee (“TAG”) Program terminated. The new program applies to all insured depository institutions, while the TAG Program applied to only to insured depository institutions that opted in (Doral Bank had opted in to the TAG Program). Under the new program, low-interest checking (NOW) accounts will no longer be eligible for unlimited deposit insurance. This unlimited insurance coverage for non-interest bearing transaction accounts is separate from, and in addition to, the insurance coverage provided to a depositor’s other deposit accounts held at an FDIC-insured institution. FDIC-insured depository institutions are not permitted to opt out of this temporary insurance program and the FDIC will not charge a separate assessment for this coverage. Community Reinvestment Under the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”), each insured depository institution has a continuing and affirmative obligation, consistent with the safe and sound operation of such institution, to help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low-and moderate-income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish specific lending requirements or programs for such institutions nor does it limit an institution’s discretion to develop the types of products and services that it believes are best suited to its particular community, consistent with the CRA. The CRA requires each federal banking agency, in connection with its examination of an insured depository institution, to assess and assign one of four ratings to the institution’s record of meeting the credit needs of its community and to take such records into account in its evaluation of certain applications by the institution, including application for charters, branches and other deposit facilities, relocations, mergers, consolidations, and acquisitions of assets or assumptions of liabilities. The CRA also requires that all institutions make public disclosure of their CRA ratings. Doral Bank received a rating of satisfactory as of the most recent CRA report of the FDIC. Safety and Soundness Standards Section 39 of the FDIA, as amended by FDICIA, requires each federal banking agency to prescribe for all insured depository institutions that it supervises safety and soundness standards relating to internal control, information systems and internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, compensation, fees and benefits and such other operational and managerial standards as the federal banking agency deems appropriate. If an insured depository institution fails to meet any of the standards described above, it may be required to submit to the appropriate federal banking agency a plan specifying the steps that will be taken to cure the deficiency. If the depository institution fails to submit an acceptable plan or fails to implement the plan, the appropriate federal banking agency will require the depository institution to correct the deficiency and, until it is corrected, may impose other restrictions on the depository institution, including any of the restrictions applicable under the prompt corrective action provisions of the FDICIA. The FDIC and other federal banking agencies have adopted Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards for Safety and Soundness that, among other things, set forth standards relating to internal controls, information systems and internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, employee compensation and benefits, asset growth and earnings. Interagency Appraisal and Evaluation Guidelines In December 2010, the federal banking agencies issued the Interagency Appraisal and Evaluation Guidelines. This guidance, which updated guidance originally issued in 1994, sets forth the minimum regulatory 31 Table of Contents standards for appraisals. In incorporates previous regulatory issuances affecting appraisals, addresses advances in information technology used in collateral evaluation, and clarifies standards for use of analytical methods and technological tools in developing evaluations. This guidance also requires institutions to utilize strong internal controls to ensure reliable appraisals and evaluations and periodically update valuations of collaterals for existing real estate loans and transactions. Brokered Deposits FDIC regulations adopted under FDICIA govern the receipt of brokered deposits by insured depository institutions. Under these regulations, a bank cannot accept, roll over or renew brokered deposits (which term is defined also to include any deposit with an interest rate more than 75 basis points above certain prevailing rates specified by regulation) unless (i) it is well capitalized, or (ii) it is adequately capitalized and receives a waiver from the FDIC. A bank that is adequately capitalized may not pay an interest rate on any deposits in excess of 75 basis points over certain prevailing market rates specified by regulation. There are no such restrictions on a bank that is well capitalized. Doral Financial does not believe the brokered deposits regulation has had or will have a material effect on the funding or liquidity of Doral Bank, which is currently a well-capitalized institution. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, Doral Bank had a total of approximately $2.2 billion and $2.4 billion of brokered deposits, respectively. Doral Bank generally uses brokered deposits as a less costly source of funding. Federal Home Loan Bank System Doral Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) system. The FHLB system consists of twelve regional Federal Home Loan Banks governed and regulated by the Federal Housing Finance Agency. The Federal Home Loan Banks serve as reserve or credit facilities for member institutions within their assigned regions. They are funded primarily from proceeds derived from the sale of consolidated obligations of the FHLB system, and they make loans (advances) to members in accordance with policies and procedures established by the FHLB system and the board of directors of each regional FHLB. Doral Bank is a member of the FHLB of New York (“FHLB-NY”) and as such is required to acquire and hold shares of capital stock in the FHLB-NY for a certain amount, which is calculated in accordance with the requirements set forth in applicable laws and regulations. Doral Bank is in compliance with the stock ownership requirements of the FHLB-NY. All loans, advances and other extensions of credit made by the FHLB-NY to Doral Bank are secured by a portion of Doral Bank’s mortgage loan portfolio, certain other investments and the capital stock of the FHLB-NY held by Doral Bank. Activity restrictions on state-chartered banks; Volcker Rule Section 24 of the FDIA, as amended by FDICIA, generally provides that state-chartered banks and their subsidiaries are limited in their investments and activities engaged in as principal to those permissible under state law and that are permissible to national banks and their subsidiaries, unless such investments and principal activities are specifically permitted by the FDIA or the FDIC determines that such activity or investment would pose no significant risk to the DIF and the banks are, and continue to be, in compliance with applicable capital standards. Any insured state-chartered bank directly or indirectly engaged in any activity that is not permitted for a national bank must cease the impermissible activity. In October 2011, the FDIC and other banking and securities agencies jointly issued a proposed rule implementing the so-called “Volcker Rule” requirements of Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act. Section 619 prohibits (i) insured depository institutions, bank holding companies and their affiliates and subsidiaries from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of any security, derivative, and certain other financial instruments, subject to certain exceptions, and (ii) insured depository institutions, bank holding companies and their affiliates and subsidiaries from owning, sponsoring, or having certain relationships with a hedge fund or private equity fund, subject to certain exceptions. The Dodd-Frank Act also prohibits banking entities from entering into any transaction or engaging in any activity that would (i) involve or result in a material conflict of interest, (ii) result in a material exposure to high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies, (iii) pose a threat to the safety or soundness of the banking entity, or (iv) pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States. The proposed 32 Table of Contents rule clarifies the scope of the Dodd-Frank Act’s prohibitions and, as contemplated by the statute, provides certain exceptions to these prohibitions. The proposed rule would require banking entities to establish an internal compliance program that is designed to ensure and monitor compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act’s prohibitions and restrictions. USA Patriot Act of 2001 On October 26, 2001, the President of the United States signed into law comprehensive anti-terrorism legislation known as the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “USA Patriot Act”). Title III of the USA Patriot Act substantially broadened the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and regulations by imposing significant new compliance and due diligence obligations, creating new crimes and penalties and expanding the extra-territorial jurisdiction of the United States. The U.S. Treasury Department (“Treasury”) has issued a number of regulations implementing the USA Patriot Act that apply certain of its requirements to financial institutions, including Doral Bank. The regulations impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing. Among other requirements, the USA Patriot Act and the related regulations require financial institutions to establish anti-money laundering programs that include, at a minimum: • internal policies, procedures and controls designed to implement and maintain the depository institution’s compliance with all of the requirements of the USA Patriot Act, the Bank Secrecy Act and related laws and regulations; • systems and procedures for monitoring and reporting of suspicious transactions and activities; • employee training; • an independent audit function to test the anti-money laundering program; • procedures to verify the identity of each customer upon the opening of accounts; and • heightened due diligence policies, procedures and controls applicable to certain foreign accounts and relationships. Failure of a financial institution to comply with the USA Patriot Act’s requirements could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution. Doral Financial believes that the cost of complying with Title III of the USA Patriot Act is not likely to be material to Doral Financial. Doral Bank was subject to a consent order with the FDIC relating to failure to comply with certain requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act. The order required Doral Bank, among other things, to engage an independent consultant to review account and transaction activity from April 1, 2006 through March 31, 2007 to determine compliance with suspicious activity reporting requirements (the “Look Back Review”). The FDIC terminated the consent order on September 15, 2008. Since the Look Back Review was still ongoing, Doral Bank and the FDIC agreed to a Memorandum of Understanding that covered the remaining portion of the Look Back Review. On June 30, 2009, Doral Bank received a notification letter from the FDIC terminating the Memorandum of Understanding because the Look Back Review had been completed. Transactions with Affiliates and Related Parties Transactions between Doral Bank and any of its affiliates (including Doral Financial) are governed by sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act. These sections are important statutory provisions designed to protect a depository institution from transferring to its affiliates the subsidy arising from the institution’s access to the Federal safety net on deposits. An affiliate of a bank is any company or entity that controls, is controlled by or is under common control with the bank. Generally, section 23A (1) limits the extent to which a bank or its subsidiaries may engage in “covered transactions” with any one affiliate to an amount equal to 10% of the bank’s capital stock and surplus, and limit such transactions with all affiliates to an amount equal to 20% of the bank’s capital stock and surplus, and (2) requires that all such transactions be on terms that are consistent with safe and sound banking practices. The term “covered transactions” includes the making of loans, purchase of or 33 Table of Contents investment in securities issued by the affiliate, purchase of assets, issuance of guarantees and other similar types of transactions. Most loans by a bank to any of its affiliates must be secured by collateral in amounts ranging from 100 to 130 percent of the loan amount, depending on the nature of the collateral. In addition, section 23B requires that any covered transaction by a bank with an affiliate and any sale of assets or provision of services to an affiliate must be on terms that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the bank, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with nonaffiliated companies. Regulation W of the Federal Reserve Board comprehensively implements sections 23A and 23B. The regulation unified and updated Federal Reserve Board staff interpretations issued over the years prior to its adoption, incorporated several interpretative proposals (such as to clarify when transactions with an unrelated third party will be attributed to an affiliate), and addressed issues arising as a result of the expanded scope of non-banking activities engaged in by banks and bank holding companies and authorized for financial holding companies under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The Dodd-Frank Act also changed the definition of “covered transaction” in sections 23A and 23B and established limitations on asset purchases from insiders. With respect to the definition of “covered transaction,” the Dodd-Frank Act defines that term to include the acceptance of debt obligations issued by an affiliate as collateral for a bank’s loan or extension of credit to another person or company. In addition, a “derivative transaction” with an affiliate is now deemed to be a “covered transaction” to the extent that such a transaction causes a bank or its subsidiary to have a credit exposure to the affiliate. A separate provision of the Dodd-Frank Act states that an insured depository institution may not “purchase an asset from, or sell an asset to” a bank insider (or their related interests) unless (1) the transaction is conducted on market terms between the parties, and (2) if the proposed transaction represents more than 10 % of the capital stock and surplus of the insured institution, it has been approved in advance by a majority of the institution’s non-interested directors. Sections 22(g) and (h) of the Federal Reserve Act set forth restrictions on loans by a bank to its executive officers, directors, and principal shareholders. Regulation O of the Federal Reserve Board implements these provisions. Under Section 22(h) and Regulation O, loans to a director, an executive officer and to a greater than 10% shareholder of a bank and certain of their related interests (“insiders”), and insiders of its affiliates, may not exceed, together with all other outstanding loans to such person and related interests, the bank’s single borrower limit (generally equal to 15% of the institution’s unimpaired capital and surplus). Section 22(h) and Regulation O also require that loans to insiders and to insiders of affiliates be made on terms substantially the same as offered in comparable transactions to other persons, unless the loans are made pursuant to a benefit or compensation program that (i) is widely available to employees of the bank and (ii) does not give preference to insiders over other employees of the bank. Section 22(h) and Regulation O also require prior board of directors’ approval for certain loans, and the aggregate amount of extensions of credit by a bank to all insiders cannot exceed the institution’s unimpaired capital and surplus. Furthermore, Section 22(g) and Regulation O place additional restrictions on loans to executive officers. Puerto Rico Regulation General As a commercial bank organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Doral Bank is subject to supervision, examination and regulation by the Office of the Commissioner, pursuant to the Puerto Rico Banking Act of 1933, as amended (the “Banking Law”). Doral Bank is required to file reports with the Office of the Commissioner and the FDIC concerning its activities and financial condition, and it must obtain regulatory approval prior to entering into certain transactions, such as mergers with, or acquisitions of, other depository institutions and opening or acquiring branch offices. The Office of the Commissioner and the FDIC conduct periodic examinations to assess Doral Bank’s compliance with various regulatory requirements. The regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement authorities, including the setting of policies with respect to the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan and lease loss reserves for regulatory purposes. 34 Table of Contents Doral Bank derives its lending, investment and other powers primarily from the applicable provisions of the Banking Law and the regulations adopted thereunder. The Banking Law also governs the responsibilities of directors and officers of Puerto Rico banks, and the corporate powers, lending, capital and investment requirements and other activities of Puerto Rico banks. The Office of the Commissioner has extensive rulemaking power and administrative discretion under the Banking Law, and generally examines Doral Bank on an annual basis. Section 27 of the Banking Law requires that at least 10% of the yearly net income of Doral Bank be credited annually to a reserve fund until such fund equals 100% of total paid-in capital (preferred and common). As of December 31, 2011, Doral Bank’s reserve fund complied with the legal requirement. Section 27 of the Banking Law also provides that when a bank suffers a loss, the loss must first be charged against retained earnings, and the balance, if any, must be charged against the reserve fund. If the balance of the reserve fund is not sufficient to cover the loss, the difference shall be charged against the capital account of the bank and no dividend may be declared until the capital has been restored to its original amount and the reserve fund to 20% of the original capital of the institution. This reserve fund is reflected in Doral Financial’s consolidated financial statements as “Legal Surplus.” Section 16 of the Banking Law requires every bank to maintain a reserve requirement which shall not be less than 20% of its demand liabilities, other than government deposits (federal, state and municipal) secured by actual collateral. The Office of the Commissioner can, by regulation, increase the reserve requirement to 30% of demand deposits. Section 17 of the Banking Law generally permits Doral Bank to make loans to any one person, firm, partnership or corporation, up to an aggregate amount of 15% of the paid-in capital and reserve fund of the bank and of such other components as the Office of the Commissioner may permit from time to time. The Office of the Commissioner has permitted the inclusion of up to 50% of retained earnings to banks classified as “1” composite rating and well capitalized. As of December 31, 2011, the legal lending limit for Doral Bank under this provision based solely on its paid-in capital and reserve fund was approximately $100.4 million. If such loans are secured by collateral worth at least 25% more than the amount of the loan, the aggregate maximum amount may reach one third of the paid-in capital of the bank, plus its reserve fund and such other components as the Office of Commissioner may permit from time to time. As of December 31, 2011, the lending limit for Doral Bank for loans secured by collateral worth at least 25% more than the amount of the loan was $223.1 million. There are no restrictions under Section 17 on the amount of loans that are wholly secured by bonds, securities and other evidences of indebtedness of the Government of the United States or the Commonwealth, or by current debt bonds, not in default, of municipalities or instrumentalities of the Commonwealth. There are also no restrictions under Section 17 on the amount of loans made by a Puerto Rico bank to the Government of the United States or the Commonwealth or to any municipality, instrumentality, authority or dependency of the United States or the Commonwealth. Section 14 of the Banking Law authorizes Doral Bank to conduct certain financial and related activities directly or through subsidiaries, including finance leasing of personal property, making and servicing mortgage loans and operating a small-loan company. The Finance Board, which is a part of the Office of the Commissioner, but also includes as its members the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Economic Development and Commerce, the Secretary of Consumer Affairs, the President of the Planning Board, the President of the Government Development Bank for Puerto Rico, the President of the Economic Development Bank, the Commissioner of Insurance and the President of the Corporation for the Supervision and Insurance of Puerto Rico Cooperatives, has the authority to regulate the maximum interest rates and finance charges that may be charged on loans to individuals and unincorporated businesses in the Commonwealth. The current regulations of the Finance Board provide that the applicable interest rate on loans to individuals and unincorporated businesses is to be determined by free competition. The Finance Board also has the authority to regulate the maximum finance charges on retail installment sales contracts and credit cards. Currently, there is no maximum interest rate that may be charged on installment sales contracts or credit cards. 35 Table of Contents On March 16, 2006, Doral Financial and Doral Bank entered into consent orders with the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner. The mutually agreed upon orders require Doral Financial and Doral Bank to conduct reviews of their mortgage portfolios, and to submit plans regarding the maintenance of capital adequacy and liquidity. The consent orders also prohibit Doral Financial and any of its non-banking affiliates, directly or indirectly, from entering into, participating, or in any other manner engaging in any covered transactions with Doral Bank. The consent order from the Office of the Commissioner was lifted on January 14, 2008, in a joint action with the FDIC. The consent order with the Federal Reserve remains in effect. IBC Act On December 16, 2008, Doral Investment was organized to become a new subsidiary of Doral Bank. Doral Investment International was granted license by the Office of the Commissioner to operate as an international banking entity (“IBE”) under the Puerto Rico International Banking Center Regulatory Act (the “IBC Act”) on February 2, 2010, but is not currently operational. Doral Investment is subject to the supervision, examination and regulation by the Office of the Commissioner under the IBC Act. Under the IBC Act, no sale, encumbrance, assignment, merger, exchange or transfer of shares, interest or participation in the capital of an IBE may be initiated without the prior approval of the Office of the Commissioner, if by such transaction a person would acquire, directly or indirectly, control of 10% or more of any class of stock, interest or participation in the capital of the IBE. The IBC Act and the regulations issued thereunder by the Office of the Commissioner limit the business activities that may be carried out in an IBE. Such activities are generally limited to persons and assets located outside of Puerto Rico. The IBC Act provides that every IBE must have not less than $300,000 in unencumbered assets or acceptable financial securities in Puerto Rico. Pursuant to the IBC Act and the regulations issued thereunder by the Office of the Commissioner, an international banking entity has to maintain books and records of all of its transactions in the ordinary course of business. International banking entities are also required to submit quarterly and annual reports of their financial condition and results of operations to the Office of the Commissioner. The IBC Act empowers the Office of the Commissioner to revoke or suspend, after notice and hearing, a license issued to an international banking entity if, among other things, such entity fails to comply with the IBC Act, the applicable regulation or the terms of the license, or if the Office of the Commissioner finds that the business and affairs of the international banking entity are conducted in a manner that is not consistent with the public interest. Certain Regulatory Restrictions on Investments in Common Stock Because of Doral Financial’s status as a bank holding company, owners of Doral Financial’s common stock are subject to certain restrictions and disclosure obligations under various federal laws, including the BHC Act. Regulations pursuant to the BHC Act generally require prior Federal Reserve approval for an acquisition of control of an insured institution (as defined) or holding company thereof by any person (or persons acting in concert). Control is deemed to exist if, among other things, a person (or persons acting in concert) acquires more than 25% of any class of voting stock of an insured institution or holding company thereof. Control is presumed to exist subject to rebuttal, if a person (or persons acting in concert) acquires more than 10% of any class of voting stock and either (i) the company has registered securities under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, or (ii) no person will own, control or hold the power to vote a greater percentage of that class of voting securities immediately after the transaction. The concept of acting in concert is very broad and also is subject to certain rebuttable presumptions, including among others, that relatives, business partners, management officials, affiliates and others are presumed to be acting in concert with each other and their businesses. Section 12 of the Banking Law requires the prior approval of the Office of the Commissioner with respect to a transfer of voting stock of a bank that result in a change of control of the bank. Under Section 12, a change of control is presumed to occur if a person or group of persons acting in concert, directly or indirectly, acquires more than 5% of the outstanding voting capital stock of the bank. The Office of the Commissioner has 36 Table of Contents interpreted the restrictions of Section 12 as applying to acquisitions of voting securities of entities controlling a bank, such as a bank holding company. Under the Banking Law, the determination of the Office of the Commissioner whether to approve a change of control filing is final and non-appealable. The provisions of Act No. 247 of 2010 (the Puerto Rico mortgage banking law) also require regulatory approval for the acquisition of more than 10% of Doral Financial’s outstanding voting securities. Please refer to “— Regulation and Supervision — Mortgage Origination and Servicing” above. The above regulatory restrictions relating to investment in Doral Financial may have the effect of discouraging takeover attempts against Doral Financial and may limit the ability of persons, other than Doral Financial directors duly authorized by Doral Financial’s board of directors, to solicit or exercise proxies, or otherwise exercise voting rights, in connection with matters submitted to a vote of Doral Financial’s stockholders. Insurance Operations Doral Insurance Agency is registered as a corporate agent and general agency with the Office of the Commissioner of Insurance of Puerto Rico (the “Commissioner of Insurance”). The operations of Doral Insurance Agency are subject to the applicable provisions of the Puerto Rico Insurance Code and to regulation by the Commissioner of Insurance relating to, among other things, licensing of employees, sales practices, charging of commissions and obligations to customers. Doral Insurance Agency is subject to supervision and examination by the Commissioner of Insurance. Changes to Legislation or Regulation Changes to federal and local laws and regulations (including changes in interpretation and enforcement) can affect the operating environment of Doral Financial and its subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways. From time to time, various legislative and regulatory proposals are introduced. These proposals, if adopted, may change laws and regulations and Doral Financial’s operating environment. If adopted, some of these laws and regulations could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings institutions, credit unions and other financial institutions. Doral Financial cannot accurately predict whether those changes in laws and regulations will occur, and, if those changes occur, the ultimate effect they would have upon our financial condition or results of operations. It is likely, however, that the current high level of enforcement and compliance-related activities of federal and Puerto Rico banking regulatory authorities will continue and potentially increase. Item 1A Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, operating results and/or the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected by a number of risk factors. Readers should carefully consider, in connection with other information disclosed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the risk factors set forth below. The following discussion sets forth some of the more important risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, other risk factors and uncertainties not currently known to us or currently deemed immaterial by us, besides those discussed below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other of our reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, also could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot assure that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in this document are a complete set of all the potential risks that we may face. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those discussed in any forward looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Please also refer to the section titled “Forward Looking Statements” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 37 Table of Contents Risks related to the general business environment and our industry Difficult market conditions have already affected us and our industry and may continue to adversely affect us. Given that almost all of our business is in Puerto Rico and the United States and given the degree of interrelation between Puerto Rico’s economy and that of the United States, we are particularly exposed to downturns in the United States economy. Dramatic declines in the United States housing market over the past few years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and underemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial banks and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital from private and government entities, to merge with larger and stronger financial institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has already adversely affected our industry and has and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We experienced increased levels of non-performing assets and OTTI charges on our non-agency mortgage-backed securities as a result of market conditions. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. • The processes and models we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecast of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation and which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the processes and models. • Regulatory agency views of market conditions and the effect of market conditions on our borrowers may differ from those of our management, and such variance in views, if any, may contribute to increases in charge-offs and loan loss provisions. • Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to engage in sales of mortgage loans to third parties (including mortgage loan securitization transactions with government sponsored entities) on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including deteriorating investor expectations. • Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. • We may be required to pay in the future significantly higher FDIC assessments to insure our deposits if market conditions do not improve or if market conditions deteriorate. • We may face higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or regulatory action that either (i) reduces the amount that our borrowers are required to pay us, or (ii) limits our ability to foreclose on properties or collateral or makes foreclosures less economically viable. 38 Table of Contents If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, our ability to access capital and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Adverse credit market conditions may affect our ability to meet our liquidity needs; unforeseen disruptions in the brokered deposits market could compromise our liquidity position. The credit markets, although recovering, have experienced extreme volatility and disruption in recent years. At times during the past few years, the volatility and disruptions reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity of certain issuers, particularly for non-investment grade issuers like us. We need liquidity to, among other things, pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our preferred stock (if dividends are declared and paid), maintain our lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we may be forced to curtail our operations. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit and our credit capacity. Our cash flows and financial condition could be materially affected by continued disruptions in the financial markets. A relatively large portion of our funding is retail brokered deposits issued by Doral Bank. Our total brokered deposits as of December 31, 2011 were $2.2 billion. An unforeseen disruption in the brokered deposits market, stemming from factors such as legal, regulatory or financial risks, could adversely affect our ability to fund a portion of our operations and/or meet obligations. Recent and/or future U.S. credit downgrades or changes in outlook by major credit rating agencies may have an adverse effect on financial markets, including financial institutions and the financial industry. On August 5, 2011, Standard and Poor’s downgraded the United States long-term debt rating from its AAA rating to AA+. On August 8, 2011, Standard and Poor’s downgraded from AAA to AA+ the credit ratings of certain long-term debt instruments issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and other United States government agencies linked to long-term United States debt. It is difficult to predict the effect of these actions, or any future downgrades or changes in outlook by Standard & Poor’s or either of the other two major credit rating agencies. However, these events could impact the trading market for United States government securities, including agency securities, and the securities markets more broadly and consequently could impact the value and liquidity of financial assets, including assets in our investment portfolio. These actions could also create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which may negatively affect the global banking system and limit the availability of funding, including borrowing under repurchase agreements, at reasonable terms. In turn, this could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We have been and could continue to be negatively affected by adverse economic conditions. The United States and other countries recently faced a severe economic crisis, including a major recession. These adverse economic conditions have negatively affected, and are likely to continue to negatively affect for some time, our assets, including our loans and securities portfolios, capital levels, results of operations and financial condition. In response to the economic crisis, the United States and other governments established a variety of programs and policies designed to mitigate the effects of the crisis. These programs and policies appear to have stabilized the severe financial crisis that occurred in the second half of 2008, but the extent to which these programs and policies will assist in an economic recovery or may lead to adverse consequences, whether anticipated or unanticipated, is still unclear. If these programs and policies are ineffective in bringing about an economic recovery or result in substantial adverse developments, the economic conditions may again become more severe, or adverse economic conditions may continue for a substantial period of time. In addition, economic uncertainty that may result from the recent downgrading of United States long-term debt, from the fiscal imbalances in federal, state and local municipal finances combined with the political difficulties in resolving these imbalances, and from the debt and other economic problems of several European countries, may directly or indirectly adversely impact economic conditions faced by us and our customers. Any increase in the severity or duration of adverse economic conditions, including a double-dip recession in the United States or a further delay in the economic recovery of Puerto Rico, would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 39 Table of Contents Our credit quality may continue to be adversely affected by Puerto Rico’s current economic conditions and the fiscal condition of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. Our business activities and credit exposure are concentrated in Puerto Rico. Consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on economic conditions in Puerto Rico. Puerto Rico’s economy is currently in a recession that began in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year that ended June 30, 2006, a fiscal year in which Puerto Rico’s gross national product grew by only 0.5%. Puerto Rico’s real gross national product decreased by 1.2%, 2.9%, 4.0% and 3.8%, respectively, for fiscal years 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010. According to the Puerto Rico Planning Board’s latest projections made in March 2011, Puerto Rico’s real gross national product was projected to have contracted by 1.0% during fiscal year 2011. Puerto Rico’s real gross national product for fiscal year 2012, however, is projected to grow by 0.7%. According to data published by the Puerto Rico Department of Labor, the number of persons employed in Puerto Rico during fiscal year 2011 averaged 1,077,000, a decrease of 2.3% compared to the previous fiscal year; and the unemployment rate averaged 15.9%. During the first four months of fiscal year 2012, total employment averaged 1,067,500, a decline of 1.2% with respect to the same period of the prior fiscal year; and the unemployment rate averaged 16.1%. Since 2000, the Government of Puerto Rico has experienced a structural imbalance between recurring government revenues and total expenditures. The structural imbalance was exacerbated during fiscal years 2008 and 2009, with recurring government expenditures significantly exceeding recurring government revenues. Prior to fiscal year 2009, the Puerto Rico government bridged the deficit resulting from the structural imbalance through the use of non-recurring measures, such as borrowing from the Government Development Bank for Puerto Rico or in the bond market, postponing the payment of various government expenses, such as payments to suppliers and utilities providers, and other one-time measures such as the use of derivatives and borrowings collateralized with government assets such as real estate and uncollected General Fund revenues. Since March 2009, the government has taken multiple steps to address and resolve the structural imbalance. For fiscal year 2009, the deficit was approximately $3.3 billion, consisting of the difference between revenues and expenses for such fiscal year. For fiscal year 2010, the deficit was approximately $2.1 billion and the deficit for fiscal year 2011 was approximately $1.0 billion. The deficit for fiscal year 2012 has been estimated at $610 million. Measures that the Government of Puerto Rico has implemented to reduce the deficit have included reducing expenses, including public sector employment through layoffs of employees. Since the Government of Puerto Rico is the largest source of employment in Puerto Rico, these measures have had the effect of increasing unemployment and could have the effect of intensifying the current recessionary cycle. On August 8, 2011, Moody’s downgraded the general obligation bond rating of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico from “A3” to “Baa1” with a negative outlook. The downgrade also applies to those ratings that are determined by or linked to that of the general obligation bond rating of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. Moody’s based its decision on its strong concerns with the continued deterioration of the severely underfunded government retirement systems, continued weak economic trends, and weak finances, with a historical trend of funding budget gaps with borrowings. A payment or other material default by the Government of Puerto Rico or any of its agencies, public corporations or instrumentalities with respect to their municipal bond or note obligations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The current state of the Puerto Rico economy and continued uncertainty in the public and private sectors has had an adverse effect on the credit quality of our loan portfolios and reduced the level of our originations in Puerto Rico. The continuation of the economic slowdown would cause those adverse effects to continue, as delinquency rates may continue to increase in the short term, until sustainable growth of the Puerto Rico economy resumes. Also, potential reduction in consumer spending as a result of continued recessionary conditions may also impact growth in our other interest and non-interest revenue sources. 40 Table of Contents A prolonged economic slowdown or decline in the residential real estate market in the United States mainland and/or Puerto Rico and an increase in unemployment in the United States mainland and/or Puerto Rico could continue to adversely affect our results of operations. The residential mortgage loan origination business has historically been cyclical, enjoying periods of strong growth and profitability followed by periods of shrinking volumes and industry-wide losses. The market for residential mortgage loan originations is currently in decline and this trend could also reduce the level of mortgage loans we may produce in the future and adversely affect our business. During periods of rising interest rates, refinancing originations for many mortgage products tend to decrease as the economic incentives for borrowers to refinance their existing mortgage loans are reduced. In addition, the residential mortgage loan origination business is impacted by home values. Over the past four years, residential real estate values in many areas of the United States have decreased significantly, which has led to lower volumes and higher losses across the industry, adversely impacting our mortgage business. The actual rates of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on loans have been higher during the recent economic slowdown. Rising unemployment and declines in housing prices have had a greater negative effect on the ability of borrowers to repay their mortgage loans. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could continue to harm our ability to sell loans, the prices we receive for loans, the values of mortgage loans held for sale or residual interests in securitizations, which could continue to harm our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any additional material decline in real estate values would further weaken the collateral loan-to-value ratios and increase the possibility of loss if a borrower defaults. In such event, we will be subject to the risk of loss on such loan arising from borrower defaults to the extent not covered by third-party credit enhancement. Our business concentration in Puerto Rico imposes risks. We conduct our operations in a geographically concentrated area, as our main market is in Puerto Rico. This imposes risks from lack of diversification in the geographical portfolio. Our financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on the economic conditions of Puerto Rico, where adverse political or economic developments or natural disasters, among other things, could affect the volume of loan originations, increase the level of non-performing assets, increase the rate of foreclosure losses and reduce the value of our loans and loan servicing portfolio. The soundness of other financial institutions could affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, investment companies and other institutional clients. In certain of these transactions, we are required to post collateral to secure our obligations to the counterparties. In the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding involving one of such counterparties, we may experience delays in recovering the assets posted as collateral or may incur a loss to the extent that the counterparty was holding collateral in excess of the obligation to such counterparty. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, our earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve to implement these objectives are 41 Table of Contents open market operations in U.S. government securities, adjustments of the discount rate and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. On January 6, 2010, the member agencies of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, which includes the Federal Reserve and the FDIC, issued an interest rate risk advisory reminding banks to maintain sound practices for managing interest rate risk, particularly in the current environment of historically low short-term interest rates. The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The effects of such policies upon our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adverse. Our income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies (in particular, the Federal Reserve). Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the prepayment speed of loans, the value of loans, investment securities and mortgage servicing assets, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits, and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will affect our business. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. The legislation made significant structural reforms to the financial services industry. The legislation, among other things, did the following: (i) establishes a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection having broad authority to regulate providers of credit, savings and other consumer financial products and services, narrows the scope of federal preemption of state consumer laws and expands the authority of state attorneys general to bring actions to enforce federal consumer protection legislation; (ii) creates a structure to regulate systematically important financial companies, and provides regulators with the power to require such companies to sell or transfer assets and terminate activities if the regulators determine the size or the scope of the activities of such companies pose a threat to the safety and soundness of such companies or the financial stability of the United States; (iii) requires more comprehensive regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market, including providing for more strict capital and margin requirements, the central clearing of standardized over-the-counter derivatives, and heightened supervision of all over-the-counter derivatives dealers and major market participants; (iv) limits the ability of banking entities to engage in certain proprietary trading activities and restricts their ownership of, investment in or sponsorship of hedge funds and private equity funds; (v) restricts the interchange fees payable on debit card transactions; (vi) abolishes the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”) and transfers its functions and responsibilities regarding the supervision of federal savings banks to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”); (vii) strengthens the regulatory oversight of securities and capital markets activities by the SEC and enhances the safety and soundness of the securitization process, including a requirement that securitizers and originators retain a portion of the credit risk for any asset that they securitize or originate; (viii) permanently increases the federal deposit insurance from $100,000 to $250,000, permits depository institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts (such as commercial checking accounts) and permits de novo interstate branching by federal and state depository institutions alike; and 42 Table of Contents (ix) strengthens existing laws and regulations applicable to public companies governing corporate accountability, giving shareholders “say on pay” and other corporate governance rights, and imposes limitations on certain executive compensation practices. Some of the provisions of the legislation have already become effective. Other provisions will have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates, and will be required to be implemented through regulatory action of various federal regulatory authorities. Because many of the provisions require future regulatory actions for their implementation, the ultimate impact of the legislation on the financial services industry and on our business, are not completely known at this time. The implementation of many of the provisions of the legislation will affect our business and are expected to add new regulatory risk and compliance burdens and costs on the financial services industry and us. The implementation of this legislation could result in loss of revenue, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities we might otherwise consider engaging in, impact the value of some of the assets we hold, require us to change certain of our business practices, impose additional costs on us, establish more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements, or otherwise adversely affect our business. We operate within a highly regulated industry and our business and results are significantly affected by the regulations to which we are subject; changes in statutes and regulations could adversely affect us. We operate within a highly regulated environment. The regulations to which we are subject will continue to have a significant impact on our operations and the degree to which we can grow and be profitable. Certain regulators which supervise us have significant power in reviewing our operations and approving our business practices. These powers include the ability to place limitations or conditions on activities in which we engage or intend to engage. Particularly in recent years, our businesses have experienced increased regulation and regulatory scrutiny, often requiring additional resources. If we do not comply with governmental regulations, we may subject to fines, penalties, lawsuits or material restrictions on our businesses in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred, which may adversely affect our business operations. In addition, new proposals for legislation continue to be introduced in the United States Congress or the Puerto Rico Legislature that could further increase regulation of the financial services industry and impose restrictions on the operations and general ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. We cannot predict the substance or impact of any change in regulation, whether by regulators or as a result of legislation enacted by the United States Congress or by the Puerto Rico Legislature, or in the way such statutory or regulatory requirements are interpreted or enforced. Compliance with such current and potential regulation and scrutiny may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business practices, require us to increase our regulatory capital and limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities in an efficient manner. Further increases in the FDIC insurance assessment premiums or required reserves may have a significant impact on us. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured depository institutions up to certain limits. The FDIC charges insured depository institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”). Current economic conditions have resulted in higher bank failures and expectations of future bank failures. In the event of a bank failure, the FDIC takes control of a failed bank and ensures payment of deposits up to insured limits (which were permanently increased to $250,000 by the Dodd-Frank Act) using the resources of the DIF. The FDIC is required by law to maintain adequate funding of the DIF, and the FDIC may increase premium assessments to maintain such funding. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted the final rule implementing a prepayment assessment for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 in order to strengthen the cash position of the DIF. Our total prepaid assessment was $67.1 million, which according to the final rule was recorded as a prepaid expense as of December 30, 2009. The prepaid assessment will be amortized and recognized by Doral Financial as an 43 Table of Contents expense over the period from 2010 to 2012. As of December 31, 2011 the unamortized balance of the prepaid assessment was $29.6 million. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to increase the DIF’s reserves against future losses, which will necessitate increased deposit insurance premiums that are expected to be borne primarily by institutions with assets of greater than $10 billion. In October 2010, the FDIC addressed plans to bolster the DIF by increasing the required reserve ratio for the industry to 1.35 percent (ratio of reserves to insured deposits) by September 30, 2020, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. In December 2010, the FDIC approved a final rule raising its industry target ratio of reserves to insured deposits to 2 percent, 65 basis points above the statutory minimum, but the FDIC does not project that goal to be met until 2027. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC approved a final rule that amended the deposit insurance assessment regulations. The final rule implemented a provision in the Dodd-Frank Act that changes the assessment base for deposit insurance premiums from one based on domestic deposits to one based on average consolidated total assets minus average Tier 1 capital. The final rule also changed the assessment rate schedules for insured depository institutions so that approximately the same amount of revenue would be collected under the new assessment base as would be collected under the then current rate schedule and the schedules previously proposed by the FDIC in October 2010. The final rule also revised the risk-based assessment system for all large insured depository institutions (generally, institutions with at least $10 billion in total assets). Under the final rule, the FDIC will use a scorecard method to calculate assessment rates for all large insured depository institutions. As noted by the FDIC in the final rule it adopted, the final rule should keep the overall amount collected from the industry very close to unchanged, although the amounts that individual institutions pay will be different. The new large bank pricing system is expected to result in higher assessments for banks with high-risk asset concentrations, less stable balance sheet liquidity, or potentially higher loss severity in the event of failure. We are generally unable to control the amount of assessments that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, or if our risk rating deteriorates for purposes of determining the level of our FDIC insurance assessments, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC insurance assessments than the recently increased levels. Any future increases in FDIC insurance assessments may materially adversely affect our results of operations. The consolidation of the Puerto Rico banking industry as a result of bank failures in 2010 may adversely affect us. In April 2010, the FDIC closed three Puerto Rico banks and sold some of their assets and liabilities to other banks in Puerto Rico. In the future, there may be additional bank failures, mergers and acquisitions in our industry. Any business combinations could significantly alter industry conditions and competition within the Puerto Rico banking industry and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the strategies adopted by the FDIC and the three acquiring banks in connection with some of the residential, construction and commercial real estate loans acquired may adversely affect residential and commercial real estate values in Puerto Rico. This in turn may adversely affect the value of some of our residential, construction and commercial real estate loans, and our ability to sell or restructure some of our residential, construction and commercial real estate loans. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements. Our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”), which are periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards and updates thereto issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”). The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed by us in our filings with the SEC. An assessment of proposed standards and updates thereto is not provided as such proposals are still subject to change. It is possible that future accounting standards and updates thereto that we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 44 Table of Contents Risks related to our business Deteriorating credit quality has adversely impacted us and may continue to adversely impact us. We have experienced a downturn in credit quality since 2006. Our credit quality has continued to be under pressure during 2010 and 2011 as a result of continued recessionary conditions in Puerto Rico and the recent slow-down in consumer activity and economic growth in the United States that have led to, among other things, higher unemployment levels, much lower absorption rates for new residential construction projects and further declines in property values. We expect that credit conditions and the performance of our loan portfolio will continue to be under pressure in the near future. Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers and counterparties and the value of the assets securing our loans or underlying our investments. If the credit quality of the customer base materially decreases, if the risk profile of a market, industry or group of customers changes materially, our business, financial condition, allowance levels, asset impairments, liquidity, capital and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, and we may be required to increase our allowance, which may affect our capital, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risk of loss from loan defaults and foreclosures with respect to the loans that we originate or purchase. We establish an allowance for loan and lease losses at a level estimated as the amount of incurred losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the related financial statement date based upon analysis of past portfolio default trends, severity experience, and fair value estimates, and record a provision for loan and lease losses which adjusts the allowance for loan and lease loss balance to the estimated amount as a charge to current period income. We establish a provision for loan losses, which leads to reductions in our income from operations, in order to maintain our allowance for inherent loan losses at a level which we deem to be appropriate based upon an assessment of the quality of our loan portfolio. Although we strive to utilize our best judgment in providing for loan losses, we may fail to accurately estimate the level of inherent loan losses or may have to increase our provision in the future as a result of new information regarding existing loans, future increases in non-performing loans, changes in economic and other conditions affecting borrowers or for other reasons beyond our control. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, such as FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner, periodically review the adequacy of our allowance for loan and lease losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses or loan charge-offs, based on judgments different from those of our management. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates and judgments regarding credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo substantial changes. If our estimates prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be sufficient to cover losses in our loan portfolio and our expense relating to the additional provision for credit losses could increase substantially. Any such increase in our provision for loan losses would have an adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. Changes in collateral values of properties located in distressed economies may require increased reserves. Substantially all of our loans are located within the boundaries of the United States economy. Whether the collateral for a loan is located in Puerto Rico or the United States mainland, the performance of our loan portfolio and the collateral value backing the loan transactions are dependent upon the performance of and conditions within each specific real estate market. Puerto Rico entered its sixth straight year of economic recession in 2011. Sustained weak economic conditions that have affected Puerto Rico and the United States over the last several years have resulted in declines in collateral values. We measure the impairment of a loan based on the fair value of the collateral, if collateral dependent, which is generally obtained from appraisals. Updated appraisals are requested when we determine that loans are 45 Table of Contents impaired and are updated annually thereafter. In addition, appraisals are also obtained for certain residential mortgage loans on a spot basis based on specific characteristics such as delinquency levels, age of the appraisal and LTV ratios. The appraised value of the collateral may decrease or we may not be able to recover collateral at its appraised value. In the absence of a current appraisal, Doral estimates the change in collateral value since the most recent appraisal using changes in value over similar time periods experienced on appraisals received. A significant decline in collateral valuations for collateral dependent loans may require increases in our specific provision for loan losses and an increase in the general valuation allowance. Any such increase would have an adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. Interest rate shifts may reduce net interest income. Shifts in short-term interest rates may reduce net interest income, which is the principal component of our earnings. Net interest income is the difference between the amounts received by us on our interest-earning assets and the interest paid by us on our interest-bearing liabilities. When interest rates rise, the rate of interest we pay on our liabilities generally rises more quickly than the rate of interest that we receive on our interest-bearing assets, which may cause our profits to decrease. The impact on earnings is more adverse when the slope of the yield curve flattens, that is, when short-term interest rates increase more than long-term interest rates or when long-term interest rates decrease more than short-term interest rates. Increases in interest rates may reduce the value of our holdings of securities and demand for our mortgage and other loans. Fixed-rate securities acquired by us are generally subject to decreases in market value when interest rates rise, which may require recognition of a loss (e.g., the identification of other-than-temporary impairment on our investments portfolio), thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. Market related reductions in value also influence our ability to finance these securities. Higher interest rates also increase the cost of mortgage and other loans to consumers and businesses and may reduce demand for such loans, which may negatively impact our profits by reducing the amount of our loan origination income. Doral Financial and Doral Bank are subject to the supervision and regulation of various banking regulators and have entered into consent orders with these regulators, and these regulators could take additional actions against Doral Financial or Doral Bank. As a regulated financial services firm, our good standing with our regulators is of fundamental importance to the continuation and growth of our businesses. Doral Financial is subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Commissioner, and Doral Bank is subject to supervision and regulation by the FDIC, the Office of the Commissioner and the state banking regulatory authorities of the states in which it has operations. Federal banking regulators, in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties, have significant discretion and power to initiate enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. The enforcement powers available to federal banking regulators include, among others, the ability to assess civil monetary penalties, to issue cease-and-desist or removal orders, to require written agreements and to initiate injunctive actions. Doral Financial and Doral Bank have entered into consent orders with the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner, which, among other things, prohibited Doral Bank from paying dividends to the parent company, prohibited Doral Financial from paying dividends to its common and preferred shareholders without regulatory approval, and required Doral Bank to take various actions to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act. While the FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner have lifted their consent orders, these banking regulators could take further action with respect to Doral Financial or Doral Bank and, if any such further action were taken, such action could have a material adverse effect on Doral Financial. Doral Financial’s consent order with the Federal Reserve is still in effect and Doral Financial’s banking regulators could take additional actions to protect Doral Bank or to ensure that the holding company remains as a source of financial and managerial strength to Doral Bank, and such action could have adverse effects on Doral Financial or its stockholders. 46 Table of Contents Doral Financial and Doral Bank are subject to regulatory capital adequacy and other supervisory guidelines, and if we fail to meet those guidelines our business and financial condition would be adversely affected. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, Doral Financial and Doral Bank must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off balance sheet items, subject to quantitative judgments by regulators regarding components, risk weightings and other factors. Supervisory guidelines also address, among other things, asset quality and liquidity. If either Doral Financial or Doral Bank fail to meet these minimum capital adequacy requirements or any other supervisory and regulatory requirements, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. A failure to meet regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, among other things, would affect Doral Bank’s ability to accept or rollover brokered deposits and could result in supervisory actions by federal and/or Puerto Rico banking authorities. The hedging transactions that we enter into may not be effective in managing the exposure to interest rate risk. We use derivatives, to a limited extent, to manage part of our exposure to market risk caused by changes in interest rates. The derivative instruments that we may use also have their own risks, which include: (i) basis risk, which is the risk of loss associated with variations in the spread between the asset yield and funding and/or hedge cost; (ii) credit or default risk, which is the risk of insolvency or other inability of the counterparty to a particular transaction to perform its obligations; and (iii) legal risk, which is the risk that we are unable to enforce the terms of such instruments. All or any of these risks could expose us to losses. Management has identified several material weaknesses in Doral Financial’s internal control over financial reporting. Doral Financial’s management has concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2011, due to several material weaknesses described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A discussion of the material weaknesses that have been identified by management can be found in Item 9A of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each material weakness results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Doral Financial’s management, with the oversight of the Audit Committee, will complete the work necessary to remedy the identified material weaknesses in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as expeditiously as possible. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, our risk management policies and procedures may be inadequate and operational risk could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. We may fail to identify and manage risks related to a variety of aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, operational risk, interest rate risk, trading risk, fiduciary risk, legal and compliance risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. We have adopted various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risk. If our risk management controls, procedures, policies and systems, including those designed to protect our networks, systems, computers and data from attack, damage or unauthorized access, were to fail or be circumvented, we could incur losses or suffer reputational damage or find ourselves out of compliance with applicable regulatory mandates or expectations. Some of our methods for managing risks and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based upon historical models. As a result, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. This information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. We may also be subject to disruptions from external events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing and financial 47 Table of Contents market settlement functions. In addition, our customers, vendors and counterparties could suffer from such events. Should these events affect us, or the customers, vendors or counterparties with which we conduct business, our consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected. When we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies related to operational losses, we may be unable to accurately estimate our potential exposure, and any reserves we establish to cover operational losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition for the periods in which we recognize the losses. A breach in the security of our systems could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and create significant financial and legal exposure for us. Our businesses are dependent on our ability and the ability of our third party service providers to process, record and monitor a large number of transactions. If the financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities fail to operate properly, become disabled, experience security breaches or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. Although we and our third party service providers devote significant resources to maintain and regularly upgrade our systems and processes that are designed to protect the security of computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets and the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information belonging to us and our customers, there is no assurance that our security systems and those of our third party service providers will provide absolute security. Financial services institutions and companies engaged in data processing have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber-attacks and other means. Despite our efforts and those of our third party service providers to ensure the integrity of these systems, it is possible that we or our third party service providers may not be able to anticipate or to implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types, especially because techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources. A successful breach of the security of our systems or those of our third party service providers could cause serious negative consequences to us, including significant disruption of our operations, misappropriation of our confidential information or the confidential information of our customers, or damage to our computers or operating systems, and could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to us or to our customers, loss in confidence in our security measures, customer dissatisfaction, litigation exposure, and harm to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on us. The preparation of our financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make significant estimates that affect our financial statements. Four of Doral Financial’s most critical estimates are the level of the allowance for loan and lease losses, the valuation of mortgage servicing rights, the valuation of the interest only securities, and the amount of its deferred tax asset. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates we may significantly increase the allowance for loan and lease losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance, and may recognize a significant provision for impairment of our mortgage servicing rights or interest only securities. If Doral Financial’s allowance for loan and lease losses turns out to be insufficient to cover actual losses in our loan portfolio, our business, financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, in the future, Doral Financial may have to increase its allowance for loan and lease losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its capital and results of operations. As of December 31, 2011, we had a deferred tax asset of approximately $111.0 million. The deferred tax asset is net of a valuation allowance of $432.9 million. The realization of our deferred tax asset ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income to realize the value of this asset. Due to significant estimates utilized in establishing the valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, it is reasonably possible that we will be required to record adjustments to the valuation allowance 48 Table of Contents in future reporting periods. Our results of operations would be negatively impacted if we determine that increases to our deferred tax asset valuation allowance are required in a future reporting period. Governmental agencies that have supervisory authority over the Company and Doral Bank can review the quality of our Tier 1 capital and may determine to reduce all or a portion of the increase to our Tier 1 capital caused by our agreement with the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico regarding our deferred tax asset. We recently entered into an agreement with the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico in which the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico recognized a prepayment of income taxes of approximately $230 million from us relating to our past overpayment of taxes. We believe that this agreement will result in an increase in our reported Tier 1 regulatory capital by approximately $200 million. The Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation have supervisory oversight authority over the Company and Doral Bank, including the quality of our Tier I regulatory capital, and as such there can be no assurance that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or Federal Reserve may not seek to reduce in the future our Tier 1 regulatory capital including the increase caused by the agreement with the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. If either regulatory agency reduces our Tier 1 regulatory capital our operations may be materially adversely effected. Defective and repurchased loans may harm our business and financial condition. In connection with the sale and securitization of mortgage loans, we are generally required to make a variety of customary representations and warranties regarding us and the loans being sold or securitized. Our obligations with respect to these representations and warranties are generally outstanding for the life of the loan, and they relate to, among other things: • compliance with laws and regulations; • underwriting standards; • the accuracy of information in the loan documents and loan file; and • the characteristics and enforceability of the loan. A loan that does not comply with these representations and warranties may take longer to sell, may impact our ability to obtain third-party financing for the loan, and be unsalable or salable only at a significant discount. If such a loan is sold before we detect a noncompliance, we may be obligated to repurchase the loan and bear any associated loss directly, or we may be obligated to indemnify the purchaser against any such loss, either of which could reduce our cash available for operations and liquidity. Our management believes that it has established controls to ensure that loans are originated in accordance with the secondary market’s requirements, but mistakes may be made, or certain employees may deliberately violate our lending policies. We seek to minimize repurchases and losses from defective loans by correcting flaws, if possible, and selling or re-selling such loans. We do not have a reserve on our financial statements for possible losses related to repurchases resulting from representation and warranty violations because we do not expect any such losses to be significant. Losses associated with defective loans may adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. We are exposed to credit risk from mortgage loans held pending sale and mortgage loans that have been sold subject to recourse arrangements. We are generally at risk for mortgage loan defaults from the time we fund a loan until the time the loan is sold or securitized into a mortgage-backed security. In the past, we retained, through recourse arrangements, part of the credit risk on sales of mortgage loans that did not qualify for GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC sale or exchange programs and consequently may suffer losses on these loans. We suffer losses on these loans when the proceeds from a foreclosure sale of the property underlying a defaulted mortgage loan are less than the outstanding principal balance of the loan and the costs of holding and disposing of the related property. We estimate the fair value of the retained recourse obligation or of any liability incurred at the time of sale, and include such obligation with the net proceeds from the sale, resulting in lower gain-on-sale recognition. We evaluate the fair 49 Table of Contents value of our recourse obligation based on historical losses from foreclosure and disposition of mortgage loans adjusted for expectations of changes in portfolio behavior and market environment. We are subject to risks in servicing loans for others. Our profitability may also be adversely affected by mortgage loan delinquencies and defaults on mortgage loans that we service for third parties. Under many of our servicing contracts, we must advance all or part of the scheduled payments to the owner of an outstanding mortgage loan, even when mortgage loan payments are delinquent. In addition, in order to protect their liens on mortgaged properties, owners of mortgage loans usually require that we, as servicer, pay mortgage and hazard insurance and tax payments on schedule even if sufficient escrow funds are not available. We generally recover our advances from the mortgage owner or from liquidation proceeds when the mortgage loan is foreclosed. However, in the interim, we must absorb the cost of the funds we advance during the time the advance is outstanding. We must also bear the costs of attempting to collect on delinquent and defaulted mortgage loans. In addition, if a default is not cured, the mortgage loan will be canceled as part of the foreclosure proceedings and we will not receive any future servicing income with respect to that loan. As a result of our credit ratings, we may be subjected to increased collateral requirements and other measures that could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We have previously sold or securitized mortgage loans in transactions with FNMA and other counterparties subject to partial or full recourse. As of December 31, 2011, the maximum contractual exposure to us if we were required to purchase all loans sold subject to partial or full recourse was $0.6 billion, $0.5 billion of which consisted of exposure to FNMA. Our contractual agreements with FNMA authorize FNMA to require us to post additional collateral to secure our recourse obligations with FNMA, and FNMA has the contractual right to request collateral for the full amount of our recourse obligations when, as now, we do not maintain an investment grade rating. In January 2006, we agreed to post with FNMA $44.0 million in collateral to secure our recourse obligations. In addition, certain of our servicing agreements, such as those with FNMA, FHLMC, and GNMA, contain provisions triggered by changes in our financial condition or failure to maintain required credit ratings. We do not currently maintain the credit ratings required by GNMA and possibly other counterparties, which may result in increased collateral requirements and/or require us to engage a substitute fund custodian, or could result in termination of our servicing rights. Termination of our servicing rights, requirements to post additional collateral or the loss of custodian funds could reduce our liquidity and have an adverse impact on our operating results. Our ability to sell loans and other mortgage products to government-sponsored entities could be impacted by changes in our financial condition or the historical performance of our mortgage products. Our ability to sell mortgage products to government-sponsored entities (“GSEs”), such as FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA, depends, among other things, on our financial condition and the historical performance of our mortgage products. To protect our ability to continue to sell mortgage products to GNMA and other GSEs, we have and may in the future repurchase defaulted loans from such counterparties. During 2011 and 2010, we repurchased $54.7 million and $68.7 million, respectively, of defaulted FHA guaranteed loans from GNMA. Any such repurchases in the future may negatively impact our liquidity and operating results. Termination of our ability to sell mortgage products to the GSEs would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may engage in FDIC-assisted transactions, which could present additional risks to our business. We may have opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. Although these transactions typically provide for FDIC assistance to an acquirer to mitigate certain risks, such as sharing exposure to loan losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution, we would still be subject to many of the same risks we would face in acquiring another bank in a negotiated transaction, including risks associated with maintaining customer relationships and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. 50 Table of Contents In addition, because these transactions are structured in a manner that would not allow us the time and access to information normally associated with preparing for and evaluating a negotiated transaction, we may face additional risk in FDIC-assisted transactions, including additional strain on management resources, management of problem loans, problems related to integration of personnel and operating systems and impact to our capital resources requiring us to raise additional capital. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with FDIC-assisted transactions. Our inability to overcome these risks could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may fail to retain and attract key employees and management personnel. Our success has been and will continue to be influenced by our ability to retain and attract key employees and management personnel, including senior and middle management. Our ability to attract and retain key employees and management personnel may be adversely affected as a result of the workload and stress associated with our business transformation efforts, and related regulatory risks and uncertainties; the consolidation of the Puerto Rico banking industry; or by additional work relating to any potential or actual acquisition. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect the profitability of our operations. We face significant competition from other financial institutions, many of which have significantly greater assets, capital and other resources. As a result, many of our competitors have advantages in conducting certain businesses and providing certain services. This competitive environment could force us to increase the rates we offer on deposits or lower the rates we charge on loans and, consequently, could adversely affect the profitability of our operations. Damage to our reputation could damage our businesses. Maintaining a positive reputation for Doral Financial is critical to our ability to attract and maintain customers, investors and employees. Damage to our reputation can therefore cause significant harm to our business and prospects. Harm to our reputation can arise from numerous sources, including, among others, employee misconduct, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum standards of service and quality, compliance failures, unethical behavior, and the activities of customers and counterparties. Negative publicity regarding Doral Financial, whether or not true, may also result in harm to our prospects. We must respond to rapid technological changes, and these changes may be more difficult or expensive than anticipated. If competitors introduce new products and services embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing product and service offerings, technology and systems may become obsolete. Further, if we fail to adopt or develop new technologies or to adapt our products and services to emerging industry standards, we may lose current and future customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is changing rapidly and in order to remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products, services and technologies. These changes may be more difficult or expensive than we anticipate. In addition, our networks, systems, computers and data could become vulnerable to attack, damage or unauthorized access as a result of rapid technological changes. Doral Financial has been the subject of an investigation by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York, which could require it to pay substantial fines or penalties. On August 24, 2005, Doral Financial received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York regarding the production of certain documents, including financial statements and corporate, auditing and accounting records prepared during the period relating to the restatement of Doral Financial’s financial statements. Doral Financial cannot predict when this investigation will be completed or what the results of this investigation will be. The effects and results of this investigation could have a material adverse effect on Doral Financial’s business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Adverse 51 Table of Contents developments related to this investigation, including any expansion of its scope, could negatively impact Doral Financial and could divert efforts and attention of its management team from Doral Financial’s ordinary business operations. Doral Financial may be required to pay material fines, judgments or settlements or suffer other penalties, each of which could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. This investigation could adversely affect Doral Financial’s ability to obtain, and/or increase the cost of obtaining, directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and/or other types of insurance, which could have a material adverse effect on Doral Financial’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Doral Financial may be required to advance significant amounts to cover the reasonable legal and other expenses of its former officers and directors. Under Doral Financial’s by-laws, Doral Financial is obligated to pay in advance the reasonable expenses incurred by former officers and directors in defending civil or criminal actions or proceedings pending final disposition of such actions. Since 2005, Doral Financial has been advancing funds on behalf of various former officers and directors in connection with the grand jury proceeding referred to above and ongoing investigations by the SEC relating to the restatement of Doral Financial’s financial statements. On March 6, 2008, a former treasurer of Doral Financial was indicted for alleged criminal violations involving securities and wire fraud. On April 29, 2010, the former treasurer of Doral Financial was convicted on three of the five counts of securities and wire fraud he was facing after a five-week jury trial. On August 13, 2009, the former treasurer of Doral Financial filed a complaint against Doral Financial in the Supreme Court of the State of New York. The complaint alleges that Doral Financial breached a contract with the plaintiff and Doral Financial’s by-laws by failing to advance payment of certain legal fees and expenses that the former treasurer has incurred in connection with a criminal indictment filed against him in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. Further, the complaint claims that Doral Financial fraudulently induced the plaintiff to enter into agreements concerning the settlement of a civil litigation arising from the restatement of Doral Financial’s financial statements for fiscal years 2000 through 2004. The complaint seeks declaratory relief, damages, costs and expenses. The former treasurer further moved for preliminary injunctive relief. On December 16, 2009, the parties entered into a Settlement Agreement. On December 17, 2009, the former treasurer’s motion for a preliminary injunction was denied as moot, and all further proceedings were stayed, but the procedures for future disputes between the parties and outlined in the Settlement Agreement were not affected by the stay. The amounts required to be advanced in an appeal of the criminal conviction could be substantial and could materially adversely affect Doral Financial’s results of operations. Our businesses may be adversely affected by litigation or regulatory enforcement. From time to time, our customers, or the government on their behalf, may make claims and take legal action relating to our performance of fiduciary or contractual responsibilities. We may also face employment lawsuits or other legal claims. In any such claims or actions, demands for substantial monetary damages may be asserted against us resulting in financial liability or an adverse effect on our reputation among investors or on customer demand for our products and services. We may be unable to accurately estimate our exposure to litigation risk when we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies. As a result, any reserves we establish to cover any settlements or judgments may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In the ordinary course of our business, we are also subject to various regulatory, governmental and law enforcement inquiries, investigations and subpoenas. These may be directed generally to participants in the businesses in which we are involved or may be specifically directed at us. In regulatory enforcement matters, claims for disgorgement, the imposition of penalties and the imposition of other remedial sanctions are possible. The resolution of legal actions or regulatory matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations for the period in which such actions or matters are resolved or a reserve is established. 52 Table of Contents Risks related to our common stock Additional issuances of common stock or securities convertible into common stock may further dilute existing holders of our common stock. We may determine that it is advisable, or we may encounter circumstances where we determine it is necessary, to issue additional shares of our common stock, securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our common stock, or common-equivalent securities to fund strategic initiatives or other business needs or to raise additional capital. Depending on our capital needs, we may make such a determination in the near future or in subsequent periods. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of any such future offering, as well as other sales of a large block of shares of our common stock or similar securities in the market thereafter, or the perception that such sales could occur. In addition, such additional equity issuances would reduce any earnings available to the holders of our common stock and the return thereon unless our earnings increase correspondingly. We cannot predict the timing or size of future equity issuances, if any, or the effect that they may have on the market price of our common stock. The issuance of substantial amounts of equity, or the perception that such issuances may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Dividends on our common stock have been suspended; Doral Financial may not be able to pay dividends on its common stock in the future. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. On April 25, 2006, we announced that, as a prudent capital management decision designed to preserve and strengthen our capital, our board of directors had suspended the quarterly dividend on our common stock. In addition, we will be unable to pay dividends on our common stock unless and until we resume payments of dividends on our preferred stock, which were suspended by the Board of Directors in March 2009. The Company is subject to certain restrictions generally imposed on Puerto Rico corporations with respect to the declaration and payment of dividends (i.e., that dividends may be paid out only from the Company’s net assets in excess of capital or, in the absence of such excess, from the Company’s net earnings for such fiscal year and/or the preceding fiscal year). The Federal Reserve Board has also issued a policy statement that, as a matter of prudent banking, a bank holding company should generally not maintain a given rate of cash dividends unless its net income available to common shareholders has been sufficient to fund fully the dividends and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the organization’s capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. In February 2009, the Federal Reserve published the Supervisory Letter, which, among other things, discusses the ability of bank holding companies to declare dividends and to redeem or repurchase equity securities. The Supervisory Letter is generally consistent with prior Federal Reserve supervisory policies and guidance, although it places greater emphasis on discussions with the regulators prior to dividend declarations even when not explicitly required by the regulations. The Federal Reserve provides that the principles discussed in the letter are applicable to all bank holding companies, but are especially relevant for bank holding companies that are experiencing financial difficulties. The Supervisory Letter provides that a board of directors should “eliminate, defer, or severely limit” dividends if: (i) the bank holding company’s net income available to shareholders for the past four quarters, net of dividends paid during that period, is not sufficient to fully fund the dividends; (ii) the bank holding company’s rate of earnings retention is inconsistent with capital needs and overall macroeconomic outlook; or (iii) the bank holding company will not meet, or is in danger of not meeting, its minimum regulatory capital adequacy ratios. The Supervisory Letter further suggests that bank holding companies should inform the Federal Reserve in advance of paying a dividend that: (i) exceeds the earnings for the quarter in which the dividend is being paid; or (ii) could result in a material adverse change to the organization’s capital structure. Under an existing consent order with the Federal Reserve, we are restricted from paying dividends on our capital stock without the prior written approval of the Federal Reserve. We are required to request permission for 53 Table of Contents the payment of dividends on our common stock and preferred stock not less than 30 days prior to a proposed dividend declaration date. We may not receive approval for the payment of such dividends in the future or, even with such approval, our board of directors may not resume payment of dividends. The price of our common stock may be subject to fluctuations and volatility. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations because of factors specifically related to our businesses and general market conditions. Factors that could cause such fluctuations, many of which could be beyond our control, include the following: • changes or perceived changes in the condition, operations, results or prospects of our businesses and market assessments of these changes or perceived changes; • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; • changes in governmental regulations or proposals, or new government regulations or proposals, affecting us, including those relating to general market or economic conditions and those that may be specifically directed to us; • the continued decline, failure to stabilize or lack of improvement in general market and economic conditions in our principal markets; • the departure of key personnel; • changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets; • operating results that vary from expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us; • changes in financial reports by securities analysts; • developments related to investigations, proceedings, or litigation that involves us; and • the occurrence of major catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks. All of our debt obligations and our preferred stock will have priority over our common stock with respect to payment in the event of a liquidation, dissolution or winding up. In any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Doral Financial, our common stock would rank below all debt claims against us and all of our outstanding shares of preferred stock. As a result, holders of our common stock will not be entitled to receive any payment or other distribution of assets upon our liquidation or dissolution until after our obligations to our debt holders and holders of preferred stock have been satisfied. Our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and certain banking law provisions contain provisions that could discourage an acquisition or change of control of Doral Financial. Certain provisions under Puerto Rico and federal banking laws and regulations, together with certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, may make it more difficult to effect a change in control of our company, to acquire us or to replace incumbent management. These provisions could potentially deprive our stockholders of opportunities to sell shares of our common stock at above-market prices. Our suspension of preferred stock dividends could result in the expansion of our board of directors. On March 20, 2009, our board of directors announced that it had suspended the declaration and payment of all dividends on all outstanding series of our convertible preferred stock and our noncumulative preferred stock. The suspension of dividends for our noncumulative preferred stock was effective and commenced with the dividends for the month of April 2009. The suspension of dividends for our convertible preferred stock was effective and commenced with the dividends for the quarter commencing in April 2009. 54 Table of Contents Since we have not paid dividends in full on our noncumulative preferred stock for at least eighteen consecutive monthly periods, or paid dividends in full on our convertible preferred stock for consecutive dividend periods containing in the aggregate a number of days equivalent to at least six fiscal quarters, the holders of our preferred stock, all acting together as a single class, have the right to elect two additional members to our board of directors. We called a special meeting of our preferred stockholders to be held on August 3, 2011 to permit holders of our preferred stock to nominate and seek to have elected the two additional members to our board of directors. Due to the lack of a quorum, the Special Meeting was not able to be held. The holders of 10% of the total number of outstanding shares of our preferred stock, all acting together as a single class, are entitled to call a special meeting for the election of two additional members to our board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. On October 21, 2011 the Company received a comment letter from the staff of the Division of Corporate Finance of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“October 2011 SEC Letter”). The sixteen (16) comments from the staff included in the October 2011 SEC Letter relate to their review of the Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, the quarterly reports for the three quarters filed by the Company for 2010 and the quarterly reports for the first two quarters filed by the Company for 2011. The Company had previously received comment letters from the staff relating to some of these filings dated September 8, 2010, March 3, 2011 and May 9, 2011. The Company has responded in a timely manner to the staff comments included in the October 2011 SEC Letter and the previous staff comment letters. In general terms, the pending comments from the staff in the October 2011 SEC Letter relate to disclosures provided by the Company in its filings relating to loans held for sale and loans receivable, credit quality and non-performing loans, loan modifications and troubled debt restructurings, provisions for loan and lease losses, the allowance for loan and lease losses and other real estate owned. The Company responded to the pending comments in the October 2011 SEC Letter in a letter dated November 9, 2011 with what it understands to be sufficient supplemental information and analyses to address all of the comments from the staff. In addition, the Company has updated its disclosures in its filings with the SEC, as requested by the staff in the October 2011 SEC Letter and the previous staff comment letters. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company has not received confirmation from the staff of the Division of Corporate Finance of the SEC that their filing review process relating to the October 2011 SEC Letter had been completed. 