Risk Factors. Some of the factors that could cause Doral Financial’s actual results for future periods to differ materially from those anticipated are discussed below. Risks Relating to the Recapitalization Process Doral Financial will need significant outside financing during 2007. Doral Financial will need significant outside financing during 2007, principally for the payment of its $625 million floating rate senior notes that mature on July 20, 2007 and of amounts required under the settlement agreement dated April 27, 2007 in respect of the consolidated securities class action and shareholder derivative litigation brought against the Company following the announcement of the restatement of its financial statements in 2005. The Company currently estimates that these external funding needs for 2007 will range between approximately $700 million and $800 million (without considering the distribution of any proceeds from the sale of Doral Bank NY’s branches). Doral Financial is in active negotiations with a private equity firm (the “lead sponsor”) regarding a substantial investment in the Company by a new bank holding company. The new holding company would be capitalized by a number of private equity and other sophisticated financial investors, and their investment would take into account the various ownership restrictions imposed by banking regulations. The lead sponsor is actively engaged in discussions with a number of potential investors to raise the contemplated capital for the new holding company to invest in Doral. Based on its discussions to date, the Company believes that the proposed transaction, if executed, would be accomplished predominantly through the issuance of new equity securities at a discount to market price and would result in very significant dilution to the Company’s existing shareholders. If the Company is successful in entering into the proposed transaction and it is consummated on a timely basis, the Company believes that the proposed transaction would adequately satisfy its capital and liquidity needs. However, the Company cannot provide assurances that it will ultimately be able to enter into an agreement with respect to the proposed transaction. 27 Table of Contents The proposed transaction would be subject to various conditions precedent, including but not limited to the receipt of regulatory and shareholder approvals, the receipt of sufficient equity commitments from other investors, final district court approval of the settlement agreement in respect of the consolidated securities class action and shareholder derivative claims brought against the Company, the absence of certain adverse developments and other customary closing conditions. Although the Company would attempt to enter into an alternative transaction that would provide it with the liquidity and capital needed to continue its business in the event that it is unable to enter into the proposed transaction, the Company cannot provide assurance that it would succeed in entering into such a transaction, especially in the limited time available prior to the July 20, 2007 maturity of the senior notes. The failure to refinance the senior notes and recapitalize the holding company would have a material adverse effect on, and impair, the holding company’s financial condition and ability to operate as going concern. This would likely cause the holding company to seek protection under applicable bankruptcy laws, which would likely result in the elimination of all value of the holding company’s outstanding common stock. In addition, banking regulators could take actions to protect the interests of the depositors of the Company’s banking subsidiaries, which actions could have a material adverse effect on the value that the holding company may realize on its investment in Doral Bank PR and other subsidiaries. The consummation of a recapitalization transaction, if any, will likely result in very significant dilution to the Company’s existing shareholders. The Company believes that a recapitalization transaction, if any, would be accomplished primarily through the issuance of new equity securities, which would result in very significant dilution to the Company’s existing shareholders. As a result, new investors would have the ability to determine matters requiring shareholder approval, including without limitation, the election and removal of directors, business combinations, changes of control and sales of all or substantially all of Doral Financial’s assets. Risks Relating to the Holding Company’s Deteriorated Financial Condition Doral Financial’s deteriorated earnings have resulted in a reduction of Doral Financial’s capital position and, together with the pending debt maturity and downgrades to its credit ratings, have adversely affected its operations and the ability of the holding company to access funding. The Company recorded significantly lower income in 2005 than in 2004, and a significant loss in 2006. The Company’s deteriorated earnings have adversely affected the holding company’s capital position, which, combined with the maturing of the Company’s $625 million floating rate senior notes on July 20, 2007, have lead to a series of downgrades in the Company’s credit ratings. Doral Financial is a party to two repurchase facilities with outstanding balances totaling approximately $86 million that are secured by whole loans and subordinated mortgage securities. These facilities are payable on demand or on a monthly basis. These facilities may be terminated by the lenders following a material adverse change in the results of operations or financial condition of the Company. One of these facilities also contains a covenant that requires Doral Financial to remain “well capitalized” under the applicable banking regulatory guidelines. As a result of the losses incurred during 2006, Doral Financial’s leverage ratio fell below the minimum threshold for the holding company to classify as “well-capitalized.” Doral Financial is in discussions with both lenders to avoid a termination of the facilities as a result of the losses suffered by Doral Financial or as a result of the holding company falling below the “well capitalized” level. The termination of either of these facilities could have a material adverse effect on the holding company’s liquidity position. In addition, the reduced capital position of the Company may make other counterparties reluctant to continue to do business with the Company. FNMA may also terminate Doral Financial’s status as an approved seller because it no longer meets the standards for being “well capitalized.” While the Company is in discussions with FNMA to avoid such action, no assurance can be given that FNMA will not terminate the Company’s status as an approved seller. As of December 31, 2006, Doral Bank PR and Doral Bank NY were in compliance with all the regulatory capital requirements that were applicable to them as a state non-member bank and a federal savings bank, respectively, and were considered “well capitalized.” 28 Table of Contents Following Doral Financial’s announcement of the need to restate its financial statements, the major rating agencies downgraded Doral Financial’s ratings in a series of actions. S&P lowered the long-term senior debt and counterparty ratings of Doral Financial from ‘BBB-’ to ‘B+’ and placed the ratings on “Credit Watch Negative.” Moody’s lowered Doral Financial’s long term senior debt rating from ‘Baa2’ to ‘B1’and placed the ratings on “outlook of credit negative.” Fitch lowered Doral Financial’s long-term senior debt rating from ‘BBB+’ to ‘BB-’ and placed the ratings on “Rating Watch Negative.” Early in 2007, Doral Financial’s ratings were downgraded from ‘B+’ to ‘B’ with a negative outlook by S&P, from ‘B1’ to ‘B2’ by Moody’s and from ‘BB-’ to ‘B+’ by Fitch. These debt and financial strength ratings are current opinions of the rating agencies. As such, they may be changed, suspended or withdrawn at any time by the rating agencies as a result of changes in, or the unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances. Ratings may also be withdrawn at the request of Doral Financial’s management. These ratings actions have affected and will continue to affect Doral Financial’s business and results of operations in a number of ways. Since the restatement, the holding company’s traditional sources of funding from the capital markets have been disrupted and the holding company has had to rely primarily on servicing income, repurchase agreements backed by mortgage loans and subordinated mortgage securities, and sales of loans in the secondary market to government agencies or U.S. financial institutions as its primary sources of liquidity. The requirements for sale of non-conforming loans in the U.S. secondary market are stricter than those existing in the Puerto Rico market prior to the restatement, which has affected the Company’s ability to sell non-conforming loans. In addition, as a result of existing regulatory consent orders, the holding company’s access to the liquidity at its banking subsidiaries is significantly restricted. At the same time, the liquidity of the holding company has been materially adversely affected by expenses related to the restatement and related legal and accounting matters and increased demands for loan repurchases pursuant to recourse or warranty obligations. Although the holding company continues to pay its debts as they become due, as discussed above, Doral Financial will need significant outside financing during 2007, principally for the payment of its $625 million floating rate senior notes that mature on July 20, 2007 and to meet certain other working capital and contractual needs of the holding company. The weakened financial condition of the holding company may also affect Doral Financial’s servicing business. The weakened financial position of the Company may also affect its servicing business. The holding company holds the contractual rights to service loans for third parties, including its banking subsidiaries. Servicing rights represent a contractual right and not a beneficial ownership interest in the underlying mortgage loans. Failure to service the loans in accordance with contract requirements may lead to a termination of the servicing rights and the loss of future servicing fees. In general, Doral Financial’s servicing agreements are terminable by the investors for cause. In addition, the servicing agreements with FNMA allow FNMA to request collateral for the total amount of loans being serviced subject to recourse. To date, the Company has posted $44.0 million in collateral to secure $876.0 million in recourse servicing with FNMA. If requested, the holding company would not have the ability to post collateral to fully secure its recourse servicing. In addition, the Company’s servicing agreements with FNMA permit FNMA to terminate the Company’s servicing rights if FNMA determines that changes in the Company’s financial condition have materially adversely affected the Company’s ability to satisfactorily service the mortgage loans. Approximately 27% of Doral Financial’s mortgage loan servicing on behalf of third parties relates to mortgage servicing for FNMA. Termination of Doral Financial’s servicing rights with respect to FNMA or other parties for which it provides servicing could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of Doral Financial. Continuing negative publicity may affect our business. As a result of the restatement of the Company’s prior-period financial statements and the Company’s deteriorated earnings and financial condition, the Company has been the subject of negative publicity. This negative publicity may inhibit the Company’s ability to attract or retain customers and maintain customary business relationships with counterparties. Continuing negative publicity could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 29 Table of Contents Doral Financial may fail to retain and attract key employees and management personnel. Doral Financial’s success has been and will continue to be influenced by its ability to retain and attract key employees and management personnel, including senior and middle management. Doral Financial’s ability to attract and retain key employees and management personnel may be adversely affected as a result of the workload and stress associated with the resolution of legacy issues related to the restatement and recapitalization efforts, and related risks and uncertainties. Risks Relating to the Restatement Process Doral Financial has restated its financial statements. Doral Financial will continue to suffer adverse effects from the restatement of its previously issued financial statements that were included in its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, as amended (the “2004 Form 10-K”). In the 2004 Form 10-K, Doral Financial restated its previously reported financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, 2002, and the unaudited selected quarterly financial information for each of the four quarters of 2004, 2003 and 2002. As a result of the restatement, Doral Financial became subject to fines and settlements and could become subject to further fines, penalties or damages. Doral Financial and its banking subsidiaries are subject to the supervision and regulation of various banking regulators and have entered into consent orders with these regulators, and these regulators could take action against the Company or its banking subsidiaries. As a regulated financial services firm, Doral Financial’s good standing with its regulators is of fundamental importance to the continuation and growth of its businesses. Doral Financial is subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve, Doral Bank PR is subject to supervision and regulation by the FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner and Doral Bank NY is subject to supervision and regulation by the OTS and the FDIC. Doral Financial is responding to inquiries and requests for documents from the Federal Reserve and the other banking regulators of the Company and its subsidiaries regarding the issues arising from the restatement and related internal control matters and the holding company’s deteriorated financial condition. Federal banking regulators, in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties, have significant discretion and power to initiate enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. The enforcement powers available to federal banking regulators include, among others, the ability to assess civil monetary penalties, to issue cease-and-desist or removal orders, to require written agreements and to initiate injunctive actions. As discussed in Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Doral Financial and Doral Bank PR have entered into consent orders with the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner, which, among other things, prohibit the Company’s banking subsidiaries from paying dividends to the parent company, and prohibit Doral Financial from paying dividends to its common and preferred shareholders, without regulatory approval. Doral Financial cannot predict whether any of these banking regulators will take any further action with respect to Doral Financial or its banking subsidiaries, or, if any such further action were taken, whether such action would have a material adverse effect on Doral Financial. The Company’s banking regulators could take additional actions to protect the Company’s banking subsidiaries or to ensure that the holding company remains as a source of financial and managerial strength to its banking subsidiaries, and such actions could have adverse effects on one or more of the Company’s stakeholders. Doral Financial has been the subject of an investigation by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York, which could require it to pay substantial fines or penalties. On August 24, 2005, Doral Financial received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York regarding the production of certain documents, including financial statements and corporate, auditing and accounting records prepared during the period relating to the restatement of Doral Financial’s financial statements. Doral Financial cannot predict when this investigation will be completed or what 30 Table of Contents the results of this investigation will be. The effects and results of this investigation could have a material adverse effect on Doral Financial’s business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Adverse developments related to this investigation, including any expansion of its scope, could negatively impact the Company and could divert efforts and attention of its management team from Doral Financial’s ordinary business operations. Doral Financial may be required to pay material fines, judgments or settlements or suffer other penalties, each of which could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. This investigation could adversely affect Doral Financial’s ability to obtain, and/or increase the cost of obtaining, directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and/or other types of insurance, which could have a material adverse effect on Doral Financial’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Doral Financial’s Business Fluctuations in interest rates may negatively impact Doral Financial’s business. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk affecting Doral Financial. Changes in interest rates can adversely affect the following areas of its business: • the number of mortgage loans it originates and purchases; • the net interest income it earns on loans and securities; • its gains on the sale of loans; • the value of its securities holdings; and • the value of its servicing asset and IOs. Significant increases in interest rates reduce demand for mortgage loan originations and refinancing. Higher interest rates increase the cost of mortgage loans to consumers and therefore reduce consumer demand for mortgage loans. Reduced demand for mortgage loans negatively impacts Doral Financial’s profits because it results in lower loan originations by Doral Financial and lower mortgage origination income. Demand for refinance loans is generally more sensitive to increases in interest rates. Significant changes in interest rates reduce net interest income. Doral Financial is liability sensitive (on average the liabilities mature sooner than the assets) and thus significant increases in short-term interest rates reduce net interest income, which is the most important component of Doral Financial’s earnings. Net interest income is the difference between the interest received by Doral Financial on its interest-earning assets and the interest paid on its borrowings. Most of Doral Financial’s interest-earning assets, like its mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, are long-term assets with fixed interest rates. In contrast, most of Doral Financial’s borrowings are short-term. When interest rates rise, Doral Financial must pay more in interest on its borrowings while the interest earned on its assets does not rise as quickly. This causes profits to decrease. This adverse impact on earnings is greater when the slope of the yield curve flattens, that is, when short-term interest rates increase more than long-term rates. Significant increases in interest rates may reduce the value of Doral Financial mortgage loans and securities. Significant increases in interest rates may reduce the value of Doral Financial’s financial assets and may have an adverse impact on its earnings and financial condition. Doral Financial owns a substantial portfolio of mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities and other debt securities with fixed interest rates. The market value of an obligation with a fixed interest rate generally decreases when prevailing interest rates rise. In addition, most of Doral Financial’s remaining IOs are related to mortgage pools in which the pass-through rates payable to investors are floating rates based on a spread over the three-month LIBOR. Accordingly, significant unexpected increases in short-term interest rates reduce the spread received on Doral Financial’s IOs and adversely affect its value. For mortgage loan sales contracts that are not subject to interest rate caps, to the extent that the interest rate payable to investors on the mortgage loans underlying the floating rate IOs exceeds the weighted-average coupon on such mortgage loans, the change in fair value of the Company’s IOs may exceed the carrying value of the IOs, creating a liability instead of an asset. Doral Financial must recognize decreases in the value of the IOs against its current period earnings. 31 Table of Contents Significant reductions in interest rates may adversely affect the value of Doral Financial’s servicing assets. Significant decreases in long-term interest rates lead to increases in the prepayment of mortgages by borrowers, which may reduce the value of Doral Financial’s servicing assets. Doral Financial’s servicing assets represent the estimated present value of the normal servicing fees (net of related servicing costs) Doral Financial expects to receive on the mortgages it services over their expected term. If prepayments increase above expected levels, the value of Doral Financial’s servicing assets will decrease because the amount of future fees expected to be received by Doral Financial from the servicing assets will decrease. Defective and repurchased loans may harm Doral Financial’s business and financial condition. In connection with the sale and securitization of loans, Doral Financial is required to make a variety of customary representations and warranties regarding the Company and the loans being sold or securitized. Doral Financial’s obligations with respect to these representations and warranties are generally outstanding for the life of the loan, and they relate to, among other things: • compliance with laws and regulations; • underwriting standards; • the accuracy of information in the loan documents and loan file; and • the characteristics and enforceability of the loan. A loan that does not comply with these representations and warranties may take longer to sell, impact Doral Financial’s ability to obtain third-party financing for the loan, and be unsaleable or saleable only at a significant discount. If such a loan is sold before Doral Financial detects a non-compliance, Doral Financial may be obligated to repurchase the loan and bear any associated loss directly, or Doral Financial may be obligated to indemnify the purchaser against any such loss, either of which could reduce Doral Financial’s cash available for operations and liquidity. The Company’s current management team believes that it has established controls to ensure that loans are originated in accordance with the secondary market’s requirements, but no assurance can be given that mistakes will not be made, or that certain employees will not deliberately violate the Company’s lending policies. Doral Financial seeks to minimize repurchases and losses from defective loans by correcting flaws, if possible, and selling or re-selling such loans. Doral Financial does not have a reserve on its financial statements for possible losses related to repurchases resulting from representation and warranty violations because it does not expect any such losses to be significant. Doral Financial cannot assure you, however, that losses associated with defective loans will not adversely impact its results of operations or financial condition. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” under Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in this report. Doral Financial must identify and satisfy the requirements of new loan sale channels for its non-conforming mortgage loan production. Prior to the announcement that it would have to restate its financial statements, Doral Financial historically sold a significant portion of its non-conforming loan production to local financial institutions at relatively high gain on sale margins through the creation of floating rate IOs. Since the announcement of the restatement, the Company has not sold its non-conforming loan production in the local market. In the fourth quarter of 2005, Doral Financial was able to sell non-conforming loans to U.S. financial institutions, on a non-recourse basis, in transactions that did not involve the creation of IOs and resulted in a significantly lower gain on sale margin. While Doral Financial is seeking to broaden sales channels for its non-conforming mortgage loan production, it anticipates that these new sales channels will continue to result in considerably lower gain on sale margins compared to those obtained in past sales in the local Puerto Rico market, thereby adversely affecting their profitability. In addition, these new channels require that the Company maintain more stringent underwriting and pricing criteria, which has affected and may continue to affect the Company’s share of Puerto Rico’s loan production. Doral Financial cannot assure you that it will be able to create a liquid market for its non-conforming loan production. 32 Table of Contents Doral Financial is exposed to credit risks from mortgage loans held pending sale and mortgage loans that have been sold subject to recourse arrangements. Doral Financial is generally at risk for mortgage loan defaults from the time it funds a loan until the time the loan is sold or securitized into a mortgage-backed security. Doral Financial also often retains, through recourse arrangements, part of the credit risk on sales of mortgage loans that do not qualify for GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC sale or exchange programs and consequently may suffer losses on these loans. Doral Financial suffers losses on these loans when the proceeds from a foreclosure sale of the property underlying a defaulted mortgage loan are less than the outstanding principal balance of the loan and the costs of holding and disposing of the related property. Doral Financial is subject to default risk in connection with the loans it originates for its own portfolio. Doral Financial is subject to the risk of loss from loan defaults and foreclosures with respect to the loans originated for its own portfolio, including those loans originated by its banking subsidiaries for investment. Doral Financial establishes provisions for loan and lease losses, which are charged to operations, in order to maintain its allowance for loans and lease losses at a level which management deems to be appropriate based upon management’s assessment of prior loss experience, the volume and type of lending being conducted, industry standards, past due loans, general economic conditions in its market and other factors related to the collectibility of the loan portfolio. Although Doral Financial’s management utilizes its best judgment in providing for loan losses, there can be no assurance that management has accurately estimated the level of probable loan losses or that Doral Financial will not have to increase its provisions for loan and lease losses in the future as a result of future increases in non-performing loans or for other reasons beyond its control. Any such increases in Doral Financial’s provisions for loan and lease losses could have a material adverse impact on Doral Financial’s future financial condition and results of operations. Doral Financial is subject to greater credit risk with respect to its portfolio of construction and commercial loans. Doral Financial invests in construction loans and mortgage loans secured by income-producing residential buildings and commercial properties through its banking subsidiaries which are subject to greater credit risk than consumer and residential mortgage loans. These types of loans involve greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans because they are larger in size, concentrate more risk in a single borrower and are generally more sensitive to economic conditions. The properties securing these loans are also harder to dispose of in foreclosure. Management has identified several material weaknesses in Doral Financial’s internal control over financial reporting. Doral Financial’s management has concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2006, as a result of several material weaknesses described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a result, this report includes an adverse opinion from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, on Doral Financial’s internal control over financial reporting. A discussion of the material weaknesses that have been identified by management can be found in Item 9A of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each material weakness results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The Company’s ability to file its periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner may also be adversely affected by the existence of ineffective controls. We have devoted substantial internal and external resources to addressing the material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting over the last couple of years. We expect to continue spending significant resources until we remedy all the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Doral Financial’s business is concentrated in Puerto Rico. Doral Financial’s business activities and credit exposure are concentrated in Puerto Rico. Consequently, its financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on economic conditions in Puerto Rico. Adverse political or economic developments, decreases in housing values or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, could result in a downturn in loan originations, an increase in the level of nonperforming assets, an increase in the rate of 33 Table of Contents foreclosure loss on mortgage loans and a reduction in the value of Doral Financial’s loans and loan servicing portfolio. In particular, if the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico is unable to generate the projected revenues or savings from the fiscal and tax reforms implemented during 2006, certain Commonwealth government agencies may not be able to meet their payroll obligations and may be forced to suspend their operations, as was the case in 2006. Recently, the Government of Puerto Rico announced a possible lack of budgetary funds to complete the fiscal year ending June 30, 2007 of approximately $650 million. Similar conditions at the end of fiscal year 2006 led to a two-week government shutdown. It is impossible for the Company to predict what effect such a government shutdown could have on the Puerto Rico economy, but a prolonged shutdown could lead to an increase in delinquencies in mortgage and consumer loans. These factors could materially and adversely affect Doral Financial’s condition and results of operations. The economy of Puerto Rico is slowing down. Beginning in 2005 and continuing during 2006, a number of key economic indicators suggested that the economy of Puerto Rico was slowing down. This trend has continued during 2007. Construction remained weak during the first half of fiscal year 2007, as the combination of rising interest rates, the Commonwealth’s fiscal situation and decreasing public investment in construction projects affected the sector. Although payroll employment in construction for the first seven months of fiscal year 2007 increased, cement sales, a real indicator of construction activity, declined by 4% as compared to the same period for fiscal year 2006. Exports decreased by 2.6% from July to November of fiscal year 2007, while imports increased by 8.6%, leading to the first registered negative trade balance of the last decade in November 2006. Retail sales have also been declining since April 2006 and cumulative figures for the first four months of fiscal year 2007 showed a decline of 2.6%. Tourism activity has also declined during the first five months of fiscal year 2007. Total hotel registrations for the first five months of fiscal year 2007 declined 5.5% as compared to the same period for fiscal year 2006. Although the unemployment rate for the first seven months of fiscal year 2007 was 10.3%, a decline from 11.7% for the same period of fiscal year 2006, this decline was due to a drop in the labor force participation rate. In general, the Puerto Rico economy continued its trend of decreasing growth and ended the first half of fiscal year 2007 with minimal momentum, primarily due to weaker manufacturing, softer consumption and decreased government investment in construction. The above economic concerns and uncertainty in the private and public sectors may also have an adverse effect on the credit quality of the Company’s loan portfolios, as delinquency rates are expected to increase in the short-term, until the economy stabilizes. Also, a potential reduction in consumer spending may also impact growth in other interest and non-interest revenue sources of the Company. Doral Financial is subject to risks in servicing loans for others. Doral Financial’s profitability may also be adversely affected by mortgage loan delinquencies and defaults on mortgage loans that it services for third parties. Under many of its servicing contracts, Doral Financial must advance all or part of the scheduled payments to the owner of an outstanding mortgage loan, even when mortgage loan payments are delinquent. In addition, in order to protect their liens on mortgaged properties, owners of mortgage loans usually require that Doral Financial, as servicer, pay mortgage and hazard insurance and tax payments on schedule even if sufficient escrow funds are not available. Doral Financial generally recovers its advances from the mortgage owner or from liquidation proceeds when the mortgage loan is foreclosed. However, in the interim, Doral Financial must absorb the cost of the funds it advances during the time the advance is outstanding. Doral Financial must also bear the costs of attempting to collect on delinquent and defaulted mortgage loans. In addition, if a default is not cured, the mortgage loan will be canceled as part of the foreclosure proceedings and Doral Financial will not receive any future servicing income with respect to that loan. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect the profitability of Doral Financial’s operations. Doral Financial faces significant competition from other financial institutions, many of which have significantly greater assets, capital and other resources. As a result, many of Doral Financial’s competitors have advantages in 34 Table of Contents conducting certain businesses and providing certain services. This competitive environment could force Doral Financial to increase the rates it offers on deposits or lower the rates it charges on loans and, consequently, could adversely affect the profitability of Doral Financial’s operations. Changes in statutes and regulations could adversely affect Doral Financial. As a financial institution, Doral Financial is subject to extensive federal and local governmental supervision and regulation. Any change in regulation, whether by applicable regulators or as a result of legislation enacted by the United States Congress or by the applicable local legislatures, could have a substantial impact on Doral Financial’s operations and profitability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 