Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following discussion sets forth some of the more important risk factors that could materially affect Doral Financial’s results of operations and financial condition. Other factors that could affect Doral Financial’s business and operations are discussed in the “Forward-Looking Statements” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. However, factors besides those discussed below or elsewhere in this or other of Doral Financial’s reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, also could adversely affect Doral Financial. The reader should not consider any descriptions of such factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that could affect Doral Financial. Risks Relating to Doral Financial’s Business There can be no assurance that the actions of the U.S. government, U.S. Federal Reserve, U.S. Treasury and other government and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the U.S. financial markets, or market response to those actions, will achieve the intended effect. On October 3, 2008, the President of the United States signed into law the EESA. The legislation was the result of a proposal by then Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to the U.S. Congress on September 20, 2008, in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. The EESA provides the U.S. Treasury Secretary with the authority to use up to $700.0 billion to, among other things, inject capital into financial institutions and establish the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, to purchase mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purposes of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the U.S. Treasury Secretary announced a plan to use up to $250.0 billion of the $700.0 billion approved under the EESA to purchase senior preferred shares in financial institutions, including nine of the nation’s largest banks. The President of the United States also granted authority for the U.S. Treasury Secretary to get access to an additional $100.0 billion of the $700.0 billion approved under the EESA to buy difficult-to-price assets from financial institutions, bringing the total commitment under EESA to $350.0 billion. On November 12, 2008, then Treasury Secretary Paulson announced that the U.S. Treasury Department was abandoning its original strategy to purchase troubled assets from financial institutions through the use of TARP funds under the EESA. In January 2009, the United States Congress effectively released the remaining $350.0 billion of TARP funds to the new Obama administration. On February 10, 2009, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner put forward a general description of a new Financial Stability Plan, including a revised approach to TARP. The new Financial Stability Plan may commit in excess of $2.0 trillion, from a combination of the remaining $350.0 billion in TARP funds, Federal Reserve funds and private-sector investments. The new Financial Stability Plan includes: (i) new capital injections into banks than undergo a comprehensive stress test and need an additional capital buffer to help absorb losses; (ii) a new public-private investment fund to be started by the U.S. Treasury Department, along with the Federal Reserve and the FDIC, to assist in disposition of illiquid assets in the balance sheets of financial institutions (the plan initially seeks to leverage private capital with public funds on an initial scale of $500.0 billion, but potentially up to $1.0 trillion); (iii) an expansion of the previously announced TALF program from $200.0 billion to $1.0 trillion and the inclusion in such program of commercial mortgage-backed securities; and (iv) the commitment of $50.0 billion from the TARP for foreclosure mitigation programs (this is part of a much broader foreclosure mitigation program included in the Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan discussed below). On February 18, 2009, President Obama announced the administration’s Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan that is designed to, among other things, assist homeowners unable to refinance their loans or struggling to meet their mortgage obligations. The proposed Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan seeks to help these homeowners by providing: (i) access for borrowers to low-cost refinancing on conforming loans owned or guaranteed by FNMA or FHLMC; (ii) a $75.0 billion homeowner stability initiative to prevent foreclosures ; and (iii) additional commitments allowing the U.S. Treasury Department to purchase up to an additional $200.0 billion of preferred stock of FNMA and FHLMC and allowing FNMA and FHLMC to increase the size of their retained mortgage portfolios by $50.0 billion. The $75.0 37 Table of Contents billion homeowner stability proposal includes financial incentives to borrowers and servicers in connection with loan modifications, the development of national standards for loan modifications, and support for the modification of bankruptcy laws to allow bankruptcy judges to modify residential mortgage loans. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA and the new financial stability plan will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability being experienced. The failure of the EESA and the new financial stability plan to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or access to credit. In addition, the U.S. government, the Federal Reserve, the U.S. Treasury Department, the FDIC and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken, or are considering taking, other actions to address the financial crisis. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, financial condition, results to operations, or access to credit. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. During the second half of 2008, the volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access credit and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, investment companies and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in certain of these transactions we are required to post collateral to secure our obligations to the counterparties. In the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding involving one of such counterparties, we may experience delays in recovering our assets posted as collateral or may incur a loss to the extent that the counterparty was holding collateral in excess of our obligation to such counterparty. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A loss may have to be accrued by Doral Financial with respect to a pending Lehman Brothers, Inc. claim. Doral Financial and Doral Bank PR (combined “Doral”), had counterparty exposure to Lehman Brothers, Inc. (“LBI”) in connection with repurchase financing agreements and forward TBA (“To-Be Announced”) agreements. LBI was placed in a SIPC liquidation proceeding after the filing for bankruptcy of its parent Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. The filing of the SIPC liquidation proceeding was an event of default under the repurchase agreements and the forward agreements resulting in their termination as of September 19, 2008. 38 Table of Contents The termination of the agreements led to a reduction in the Company’s total assets and total liabilities of approximately $509.8 million. The termination of the agreements caused Doral to recognize a previously unrealized loss on the value of the securities subject to the agreements, resulting in a $4.2 million charge during the third quarter of 2008. Doral filed a claim with the SIPC trustee for LBI that it is owed approximately $43.3 million, representing the excess of the value of the securities held by LBI above the amounts owed by Doral under the agreements, plus ancillary expenses and damages. Doral has fully reserved ancillary expenses and interest. In December 2008, the SIPC trustee announced that final submission of claims for customers was January 2009 and set a deadline of June 2009 for other creditor claims. They also announced that they expect to have enough assets to cover customer claims but stated that they could not determine at this point what would be available to pay general creditors. Based on this information, Doral determined that the process will likely take more than a year and that mounting legal and operating costs would likely impair the ability of LBI to pay 100% of the claims, especially for general creditors. The fourth quarter also saw the continued decline in asset values and management concluded that it was likely that LBI assets would also decline in value. Management evaluated this receivable in accordance with the guidance provided by SFAS No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies” (“SFAS 5”), and related pronouncements. As a result, Doral accrued a loss of $21.6 million against the $43.3 million owed by LBI as of December 31, 2008. The net receivable of $21.7 million is recorded in “Accounts Receivable” on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition. Determining the reserve amount requires management to use considerable judgment and is based on the facts currently available. As additional information on the SIPC proceeding becomes available, Doral may need to accrue further losses or reverse losses already accrued. The actual loss that may ultimately be incurred by Doral with respect to its pending LBI claim may have a significant adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. Difficult market conditions have already affected our industry and may adversely affect us. Given that almost all of our business is in Puerto Rico and the United States and given the degree of interrelation between Puerto Rico’s economy and that of the United States, we are particularly exposed to downturns in the U.S. economy. Dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial banks and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital from private and government entities, to merge with larger and stronger financial institutions and, in some cases, fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has already adversely affected our industry and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, including as a result of the EESA and the new financial stability plan. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. • The processes we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecast of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation and which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the processes. • Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to engage in sales of mortgage loans to third parties (including mortgage loan securitization transactions with government sponsored entities) on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further 39 Table of Contents disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including deteriorating investor expectations. • Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. • The FDIC has already increased the amount of the assessments that we will have to pay on our insured deposits during 2009 because market developments have led to a substantial increase in bank failures and an increase in FDIC loss reserves, which in turn has led to a depletion of the insurance fund of the FDIC and a reduction of the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. In addition, the FDIC announced on February 27, 2009 an interim rule pursuant to which it would be imposing an emergency special assessment of 20 cents per $100 of domestic deposits for all banks to be collected on September 30, 2009. We may be required to pay in the future significantly higher FDIC assessment on our deposits if market conditions do not improve or if market conditions deteriorate. • Higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or regulatory action that either (i) reduces the amount that our borrowers are required to pay us, or (ii) limits our ability to foreclose on properties or collateral or makes foreclosures less economically viable. In particular, there is legislation pending in the U.S. Congress that would allow a Chapter 13 bankruptcy plan to “cram down” the value of certain mortgages on a consumer’s principal residence to its market value and/or reset debtor interest rate and monthly payments to an amount that permits them to remain in their homes. We have experienced declines in the market value of some of our assets. Some of our mortgage-backed and other investments have experienced declines in their market values as a result of adverse market conditions. A decline in the market value of our mortgage-backed securities and other assets may require us to recognize an other-than-temporary impairment against such assets under GAAP if we were to determine that, with respect to any assets in unrealized loss positions, we do not have the ability and intent to hold assets to maturity or for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery of the amortized cost of such assets. If such a determination were made, we would recognize unrealized losses through earnings and write down the amortized cost of such assets to a new cost basis, based on the fair market value of such assets on the date they are considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired. Such impairment charges reflect non-cash losses at the time of recognition; subsequent disposition or sale of such assets could further affect our future losses or gains, as they are based on the difference between the sales price received and the adjusted amortized cost of such assets at the time of sale. Doral Financial’s business is concentrated in Puerto Rico and continued weakness of P.R. economy may continue to adversely affect Doral Financial. Doral Financial’s business activities and credit exposure are concentrated in Puerto Rico. Consequently, its financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on economic conditions in Puerto Rico. Adverse political or economic developments, decreases in housing values or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, could result in a downturn in loan originations, an increase in the level of non-performing assets, an increase in the rate of foreclosure loss on mortgage loans and a reduction in the value of Doral Financial’s loans and loan servicing portfolio. Since 2006, the P.R. economy has been experiencing recessionary conditions. Based on information published by the Puerto Rico Planning Board on February 9, 2009, Puerto Rico real gross national product decreased 1.8% during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. The preliminary figures for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 are that the Puerto Rico gross national product decreased by 2.5%. As reported by the Puerto Rico Planning Board, the growth deceleration during fiscal year 2008 constitutes the sharpest economic reduction since fiscal year 1983. The Puerto Rico Planning Board expects that recessionary conditions will continue in Puerto Rico during the fiscal years ending in June 30, 2009 and 2010. During fiscal year 2009 the projection is a reduction in real gross national product of 3.4%, and during fiscal year 2010 the projection is a reduction in real gross national product of 2.0%. 40 Table of Contents The continued adverse economic conditions in Puerto Rico, the recessionary conditions in the United States, as well as increased uncertainty in the credit and real estate markets may also have an adverse effect on the credit quality of the Company’s loan portfolios, as delinquency rates are expected to increase in the short-term, until the economy stabilizes. Also, a potential reduction in consumer spending may also impact growth in other interest and non-interest revenue sources of the Company. Deteriorating credit quality particularly in real estate loans has adversely impacted Doral Financial and may continue to adversely impact Doral Financial. Doral Financial has experienced a downturn in credit performances during 2007 and 2008, and the Company expects credit conditions and the performance of its loan portfolio to continue to deteriorate in the near future. Construction loans to finance residential or commercial projects involve greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans because they are larger in size, concentrate more risk in a single borrower and are generally more sensitive to economic conditions. The properties securing these loans are also harder to dispose of in foreclosure. Increases in the allowance for loan and lease losses may be necessary in the future. Accordingly, a decrease in the quality of Doral Financial’s credit portfolio could have a material adverse effect on Doral Financial’s earnings and results of operations. Changes in interest rates could affect Doral Financial’s income and cash flows. Doral Financial’s income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond Doral Financial’s control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies (in particular, the Federal Reserve Board). Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the prepayment speed of loans, the value of loans, investment securities and mortgage servicing assets, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding. The hedging transactions that the Company enters into may not be effective in managing the exposure to interest rate risk. The Company uses derivatives, to a limited extent, to manage part of its exposure to market risk caused by changes in interest rates. The derivative instruments that the Company may use also have their own risks, which include: (i) basis risk, which is the risk of loss associated with variations in the spread between the asset yield and funding and/or hedge cost; (ii) credit or default risk, which is the risk of insolvency or other inability of the counterparty to a particular transaction to perform its obligations thereunder; and (iii) legal risk, which is the risk that the Company is unable to enforce the terms of such instruments. All or any of these risks could expose the Company to losses. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect us. Management of risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events. We have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be comprehensive given current market conditions. Some of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. As a result, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend on the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. This information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. 41 Table of Contents The preparation of Doral Financial’s financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make significant estimates that affect Doral Financial’s financial statements. Three of Doral Financial’s most critical estimates are the level of the allowance for loan and lease losses, the valuation of mortgage servicing rights and the amount of its deferred tax asset. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates Doral Financial cannot provide absolute assurance that it will not significantly increase the allowance for loan and lease losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance, nor that it will not recognize a significant provision for impairment of its mortgage servicing rights. If Doral Financial’s allowance for loan and lease losses is not adequate, Doral Financial’s business, financial condition, including its liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, in the future, Doral Financial may increase its allowance for loan and lease losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its capital and results of operations. For more information on the sensitivity of these estimates, please refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As of December 31, 2008, Doral Financial had a deferred tax asset of approximately $120.8 million. The deferred tax asset is net of a valuation allowance of $388.5 million. The realization of Doral Financial’s deferred tax asset ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income to realize the value of this asset. Due to significant estimates utilized in establishing the valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, it is reasonably possible that Doral Financial will be required to record adjustments to the valuation allowance in future reporting periods. Doral Financial’s results of operations would be negatively impacted if it determines that increases to its deferred tax asset valuation allowance are required in a future reporting period. For additional information on Doral Financial’s deferred tax asset please refer to the information under the Caption “Income Taxes” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Section” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Defective and repurchased loans may harm Doral Financial’s business and financial condition. In connection with the sale and securitization of mortgage loans, Doral Financial is required to make a variety of customary representations and warranties regarding the Company and the loans being sold or securitized. Doral Financial’s obligations with respect to these representations and warranties are generally outstanding for the life of the loan, and they relate to, among other things: • compliance with laws and regulations; • underwriting standards; • the accuracy of information in the loan documents and loan file; and • the characteristics and enforceability of the loan. A loan that does not comply with these representations and warranties may take longer to sell, may impact Doral Financial’s ability to obtain third-party financing for the loan, and be unsaleable or saleable only at a significant discount. If such a loan is sold before Doral Financial detects a non-compliance, Doral Financial may be obligated to repurchase the loan and bear any associated loss directly, or Doral Financial may be obligated to indemnify the purchaser against any such loss, either of which could reduce Doral Financial’s cash available for operations and liquidity. The Company’s current management team believes that it has established controls to ensure that loans are originated in accordance with the secondary market’s requirements, but no assurance can be given that mistakes will not be made, or that certain employees will not deliberately violate the Company’s lending policies. Doral Financial seeks to minimize repurchases and losses from defective loans by correcting flaws, if possible, and selling or re-selling such loans. Doral Financial does not have a reserve on its financial statements for possible losses related to repurchases 42 Table of Contents resulting from representation and warranty violations because it does not expect any such losses to be significant. Doral Financial cannot assure however, that losses associated with defective loans will not adversely impact its results of operations or financial condition. Please refer to “Liquidity and Capital Resources” under Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Doral Financial is exposed to credit risk from mortgage loans held pending sale and mortgage loans that have been sold subject to recourse arrangements. Doral Financial is generally at risk for mortgage loan defaults from the time it funds a loan until the time the loan is sold or securitized into a mortgage-backed security. In the past, Doral Financial retained, through recourse arrangements, part of the credit risk on sales of mortgage loans that did not qualify for GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC sale or exchange programs and consequently may suffer losses on these loans. Doral Financial suffers losses on these loans when the proceeds from a foreclosure sale of the property underlying a defaulted mortgage loan are less than the outstanding principal balance of the loan and the costs of holding and disposing of the related property. Doral Financial is subject to risks in servicing loans for others. Doral Financial’s profitability may also be adversely affected by mortgage loan delinquencies and defaults on mortgage loans that it services for third parties. Under many of its servicing contracts, Doral Financial must advance all or part of the scheduled payments to the owner of an outstanding mortgage loan, even when mortgage loan payments are delinquent. In addition, in order to protect their liens on mortgaged properties, owners of mortgage loans usually require that Doral Financial, as servicer, pay mortgage and hazard insurance and tax payments on schedule even if sufficient escrow funds are not available. Doral Financial generally recovers its advances from the mortgage owner or from liquidation proceeds when the mortgage loan is foreclosed. However, in the interim, Doral Financial must absorb the cost of the funds it advances during the time the advance is outstanding. Doral Financial must also bear the costs of attempting to collect on delinquent and defaulted mortgage loans. In addition, if a default is not cured, the mortgage loan will be canceled as part of the foreclosure proceedings and Doral Financial will not receive any future servicing income with respect to that loan. Unforeseen disruptions in the brokered deposits market could compromise Doral Financial’s liquidity position. A relatively large portion of Doral Financial’s funding is retail brokered deposits issued by Doral Bank PR. Total brokered deposits as of December 31, 2008 for Doral Financial were $2.7 billion. An unforeseen disruption in the brokered deposits market, stemming from factors such as legal, regulatory or financial risks, could adversely affect Doral Financial’s ability to fund a portion of its operations and/or meet obligations. Adverse credit market conditions may affect Doral Financial’s ability to meet its liquidity needs. The credit markets have recently been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. In the second half of 2008, the volatility and disruptions reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity of certain issuers. Doral Financial needs liquidity to, among other things, pay its operating expenses, interest on its debt and dividends on its preferred stock, maintain its lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, Doral Financial may be forced to curtail its operations. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit and Doral Financial’s credit capacity. Doral Financial’s cash flows and financial condition could be materially affected by continued disruptions in the financial markets. 43 Table of Contents Doral Financial may fail to retain and attract key employees and management personnel. Doral Financial’s success has been and will continue to be influenced by its ability to retain and attract key employees and management personnel, including senior and middle management. Doral Financial’s ability to attract and retain key employees and management personnel may be adversely affected as a result of the workload and stress associated with the resolution of legacy issues and business transformation efforts, and related risks and uncertainties. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect the profitability of Doral Financial‘s operations. Doral Financial faces significant competition from other financial institutions, many of which have significantly greater assets, capital and other resources. As a result, many of Doral Financial’s competitors have advantages in conducting certain businesses and providing certain services. This competitive environment could force Doral Financial to increase the rates it offers on deposits or lower the rates it charges on loans and, consequently, could adversely affect the profitability of Doral Financial’s operations. Doral Financial operates within a highly regulated industry and its business and results are significantly affected by the regulations to which it is subject; Changes in statutes and regulations could adversely affect Doral Financial. Doral Financial operates within a highly regulated environment. The regulations to which the Company is subject will continue to have a significant impact on the Company’s operations and the degree to which it can grow and be profitable. Certain regulators which supervise the Company have significant power in reviewing the Company’s operations and approving its business practices. These powers include the ability to place limitations or conditions on activities in which the Company engages or intends to engage. Particularly in recent years, the Company’s businesses have experienced increased regulation and regulatory scrutiny, often requiring additional Company resources. On February 25, 2009, President Obama called for a sweeping overhaul of Wall Street regulations, saying that big changes were necessary to avoid a repeat of the recent financial crises. It is not possible at this time to ascertain what changes will be proposed and finally adopted in connection with this proposed overhaul, and what effect, if any, these changes will have on the financial condition and results of operations of Doral Financial. Any change in regulation, whether by regulators or as a result of legislation enacted by the United States Congress or by the Puerto Rico Legislature, or in the way such statutory or regulatory requirements are interpreted or enforced, could have an adverse impact on Doral Financial’s operations and profitability. Damage to Doral Financial’s reputation could damage Doral Financial’s businesses. Maintaining a positive reputation for Doral Financial is critical to Doral Financial attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees. Damage to its reputation can therefore cause significant harm to the Company’s business and prospects. Harm to the Company’s reputation can arise from numerous sources, including, among others, employee misconduct, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum standards of service and quality, compliance failures, unethical behavior, and the activities of customers and counterparties. Further, negative publicity regarding the Company, whether or not true, may also result in harm to the Company’s prospects. Doral Financial and its banking subsidiaries are subject to the supervision and regulation of various banking regulators and have entered into consent orders with these regulators, and these regulators could take action against the Company or its banking subsidiaries. As a regulated financial services firm, Doral Financial’s good standing with its regulators is of fundamental importance to the continuation and growth of its businesses. Doral Financial is subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Commissioner, Doral Bank PR is subject to 44 Table of Contents supervision and regulation by the FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner and Doral Bank NY is subject to supervision and regulation by the OTS and the FDIC. Federal banking regulators, in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties, have significant discretion and power to initiate enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. The enforcement powers available to federal banking regulators include, among others, the ability to assess civil monetary penalties, to issue cease-and-desist or removal orders, to require written agreements and to initiate injunctive actions. As discussed in Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings, Banking Regulatory Matters in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Doral Financial and Doral Bank PR have entered into consent orders with the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner, which, among other things, prohibit the Company’s banking subsidiaries from paying dividends to the parent company, and prohibit Doral Financial from paying dividends to its common and preferred shareholders, without regulatory approval and require Doral Bank PR to take various actions to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act. While the FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner have lifted their consent orders, Doral Financial cannot predict whether any of these banking regulators will take any further action with respect to Doral Financial or its banking subsidiaries, or, if any such further action were taken, whether such action would have a material adverse effect on Doral Financial. The Company’s banking regulators could take additional actions to protect the Company’s banking subsidiaries or to ensure that the holding company remains as a source of financial and managerial strength to its banking subsidiaries, and such actions could have adverse effects on one or more of the Company’s stockholders. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect Doral Financial’s financial statements. Doral Financial’s financial statements are subject to the application of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (“GAAP”), which are periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time Doral Financial is required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”). Market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to promulgate new guidance which further interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or transactions as well as to issue new standards expanding disclosures. The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is generally disclosed in Doral Financial’s annual and quarterly reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. An assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are still subject to change. It is possible that future accounting standards that Doral Financial is required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that Doral Financial applies to its consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on Doral Financial’s financial condition and results of operations. Risk relating to Legacy Issues Doral Financial has been the subject of an investigation by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York, which could require it to pay substantial fines or penalties. On August 24, 2005, Doral Financial received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York regarding the production of certain documents, including financial statements and corporate, auditing and accounting records prepared during the period relating to the restatement of Doral Financial’s financial statements. Doral Financial cannot predict when this investigation will be completed or what the results of this investigation will be. The effects and results of this investigation could have a material adverse effect on Doral Financial’s business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Adverse developments related to this investigation, including any expansion of its scope, could negatively impact the Company and could divert efforts and attention of its management team from Doral Financial’s ordinary business operations. Doral Financial may be required to pay material fines, judgments or settlements or suffer other penalties, each of which could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. This investigation could adversely affect Doral Financial’s ability to obtain, and/or increase the cost of obtaining, directors’ 45 Table of Contents and officers’ liability insurance and/or other types of insurance, which could have a material adverse effect on Doral Financial’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Doral Financial may be required to advance significant amounts to cover the legal expense of its former officers and directors. Under Doral Financial’s by-laws, Doral Financial is obligated to pay in advance the reasonable expenses incurred by former officers and directors in defending civil or criminal actions or proceedings pending final disposition of such actions. Since 2005, Doral Financial has been advancing funds on behalf of various former officers and directors in connection with the grand jury proceeding referred to above and ongoing investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the restatement of Doral Financial’s financial statements. On March 6, 2008, a former treasurer of Doral Financial was indicted for alleged criminal violations involving securities and wire fraud. While Doral Financial may be able to recover amounts advanced following a final disposition of the matter and may contest the reasonableness of the amounts requested to be advanced, the amounts required to be advanced in a lengthy criminal proceeding could be substantial and could materially adversely affect Doral Financial’s results from operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 