Item 1A Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, operating results and/or the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected by a number of risk factors. Readers should carefully consider, in connection with other information disclosed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the risk factors set forth below. The following discussion sets forth some of the more important risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. These risk factors and other presently unforeseen risk factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or included in our other filings with the SEC. In addition, these risk factors and other presently unforeseen risk factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The risk factors described below are not the only risks faced by the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or currently deemed by the Company to be immaterial also may materially affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Please also refer to the section titled “Forward Looking Statements” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to our Business and Operations Operating restrictions and conditions under the Consent Order and the Written Agreement will increase Doral Financial’s operating costs and adversely affect Doral Financial’s results of operations. Doral Bank entered into the Consent Order with the FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner on August 8, 2012, and Doral Financial entered into the Written Agreement with the FRBNY on September 11, 2012. The Consent Order and the Written Agreement impose operating restrictions and conditions on Doral Bank and Doral Financial. Both the Consent Order and the Written Agreement increase the reporting obligations of Doral Financial and Doral Bank to their regulators. We anticipate that we will need to continue to dedicate significant resources to our efforts to comply with the Consent Order and the Written Agreement, which are expected to increase our operational costs and adversely affect the amount of time our management has to conduct our business. The additional operating costs to comply with, and the restrictions under, the Consent Order and the Written Agreement will adversely affect Doral Financial’s results of operations. Under the Consent Order and the Written Agreement the FRBNY, FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner may impose conditions on Doral Financial and/or Doral Bank that one or both entities may not be able to comply with, or even if complied with may materially adversely affect Doral Financial’s and/or Doral Bank’s operations and liquidity and capital resources, as well as their ability to meet their regulatory or financial obligations. If we fail to comply with the Consent Order or the Written Agreement in the future, or if, in the opinion of the FRBNY, FDIC, or the Office of the Commissioner, our financial condition has significantly deteriorated, we may become subject to additional regulatory enforcement actions up to and including the appointment of a receiver or conservator for Doral Bank. Doral Financial and Doral Bank are subject to the supervision and regulation of various banking regulators and have entered into the Written Agreement and the Consent Order with these regulators, and these regulators could take additional actions against Doral Financial or Doral Bank. As a regulated financial services firm, our good standing with our regulators is of fundamental importance to the continuation and growth of our businesses. Doral Financial is subject to supervision and regulation by the 38 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements FRBNY and the Office of the Commissioner, and Doral Bank is subject to supervision and regulation by the FDIC, the Office of the Commissioner and the state banking regulatory authorities of the states in which it has operations. Federal banking regulators, in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties, have significant discretion and power to initiate enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. The enforcement powers available to federal banking regulators include, among others, the ability to assess civil monetary penalties, to issue cease and desist or removal orders, to require written agreements and to initiate injunctive actions. Doral Financial and Doral Bank have entered into the Written Agreement and the Consent Order with the FRBNY, the FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner. These banking regulators could take further action with respect to Doral Financial or Doral Bank and, if any such further action were taken, such action could have a material adverse effect on Doral Financial. The operating and other conditions of the Consent Order and the Written Agreement could lead to an increased risk of being subject to additional regulatory actions, as well as additional actions resulting from future regular annual safety and soundness and compliance examinations by these federal and state regulators. Doral Financial’s banking regulators could take additional actions to protect Doral Bank or to ensure that the holding company remains as a source of financial and managerial strength to Doral Bank, and such actions could have adverse effects on Doral Financial. Our ability to diversify our business operations by expanding in the United States is dependent upon approval of our operating plans by the FRBNY, the FDIC and/or the Office of the Commissioner. If we do not continue to receive the approval of the FRBNY, the FDIC and/or the Office of the Commissioner to develop our operations in the United States our business and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Because of the weak economic conditions in Puerto Rico we are diversifying our business operations through the development of our banking operations in New York and Florida. Currently, approximately 27.81% of all our assets are in New York and Florida. Because Doral Financial is party to the Written Agreement with the FRBNY and Doral Bank is party to the Consent Order with the FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner, we may be required to seek approval to take some actions under our operating plans, including developing our banking operations in New York and Florida. If the FRBNY, the FDIC and/or the Office of the Commissioner do not approve the continued development of our banking operations in New York and Florida, our business and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Doral Bank is required to obtain the approval from the FDIC prior to accepting, renewing or rolling over any brokered deposits. If the FDIC does not allow Doral Bank to accept, renew or rollover any brokered deposits, Doral Bank may not be able to meet its liquidity needs or future obligations. Doral Bank’s liquidity relies in part upon brokered deposits. Under the Consent Order with the FDIC, Doral Bank must obtain a waiver from the FDIC prior to accepting, renewing or rolling over any brokered deposits. If the FDIC does not approve the acceptance, renewal or rolling over of brokered deposits, or limits Doral Bank’s ability in any material way, Doral Bank’s liquidity, operations and ability to meet its obligations will be materially adversely affected. Our decisions regarding credit risk and the allowance for loan and lease losses may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we need to materially increase our allowance for loan and lease losses, our business and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Making loans is an essential element of our business, and there is a risk that the loans will not be repaid. This default risk is affected by a number of factors, including: • the duration of the loan; • credit risk of a particular borrower; • changes in economic or industry conditions; and • in the case of a collateral loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of collateral. 39 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We strive to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan and lease losses to provide for probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors such as default frequency, internal risk ratings, expected future cash collections, loss recovery rates, severity experience, fair value estimates and general economic factors, among others. We establish a provision for loan losses, which leads to reductions in our income from operations, in order to maintain our allowance for inherent losses at a level which we deem to be appropriate based upon an assessment of the quality of our loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates and judgments regarding credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo substantial changes. We believe our allowance for loan and lease losses is currently sufficient given the constant monitoring of the risk inherent in the loan portfolio. However, there is no precise method of predicting loan losses and therefore we always face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed the allowance for loan and lease losses and that additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan and lease losses will be required. In addition, the FDIC as well as the Office of the Commissioner may require us to establish additional reserves. Additions to the allowance for loan and lease losses would adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition. Deteriorating credit quality has adversely impacted us and may continue to adversely impact us. We have experienced a downturn in credit quality since 2006. Our credit quality has continued to be under pressure during 2012 as a result of continued recessionary conditions in Puerto Rico and the recent slow-down in consumer activity and economic growth in the United States that have led to, among other things, higher unemployment levels, much lower absorption rates for new residential construction projects and further declines in property values. We expect that credit conditions and the performance of our loan portfolio may continue to deteriorate in the near future. Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers and counterparties and the value of the assets securing our loans or underlying our investments. If the credit quality of the customer base materially decreases, if the risk profile of a market, industry or group of customers changes materially, our business, financial condition, allowance levels, asset impairments, liquidity, capital and results of operations could be adversely affected. Changes in collateral values of properties located in distressed economies may require increased reserves. Substantially all of our loans are located within the boundaries of the United States economy. Whether the collateral for a loan is located in Puerto Rico or the United States mainland, the performance of our loan portfolio and the collateral value backing the loan transactions are dependent upon the performance of and conditions within each specific real estate market. Puerto Rico has been in recessionary conditions since 2006. Sustained weak economic conditions that have affected Puerto Rico and the United States over the last several years have resulted in declines in collateral values. We measure the impairment of a loan based on the fair value of the collateral, if collateral dependent, which is generally obtained from appraisals. Updated appraisals are requested when we determine that loans are impaired and are updated annually thereafter. In addition, appraisals are also obtained for certain residential mortgage loans on a spot basis based on specific characteristics such as delinquency levels, age of the appraisal and LTV ratios. The appraised value of the collateral may decrease or we may not be able to recover collateral at its appraised value. A significant decline in collateral valuations for collateral dependent loans may require increases in our specific provision for loan losses and an increase in the general valuation allowance. Any such increase would have an adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. Interest rate shifts may reduce net interest income. Shifts in short-term interest rates may reduce net interest income, which is the principal component of our earnings. Net interest income is the difference between the amounts received by us on our interest-earning assets and the interest paid by us on our interest-bearing liabilities. When interest rates rise, the rate of interest we pay on our liabilities generally rises more quickly than the rate of interest that we receive on our interest-bearing 40 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements assets, which may cause our profits to decrease. The impact on earnings is more adverse when the slope of the yield curve flattens, that is, when short-term interest rates increase more than long-term interest rates or when long-term interest rates decrease more than short-term interest rates. Increases in interest rates may reduce the value of our holdings of securities and demand for our mortgage and other loans. Fixed-rate securities acquired by us are generally subject to decreases in market value when interest rates rise, which may require recognition of a loss (e.g., the identification of other-than-temporary impairment on our investments portfolio), thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. Market-related reductions in value also influence our ability to finance these securities. Higher interest rates also increase the cost of mortgage and other loans to consumers and businesses and may reduce demand for such loans, which may negatively impact our profits by reducing the amount of our loan origination income. Doral Financial and Doral Bank are subject to regulatory capital adequacy and other supervisory guidelines, and if we fail to meet those guidelines our business and financial condition would be adversely affected. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, Doral Financial and Doral Bank must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off balance sheet items, subject to quantitative judgments by regulators regarding components, risk weightings and other factors. Supervisory guidelines also address, among other things, asset quality and liquidity. If either Doral Financial or Doral Bank fail to meet these minimum capital adequacy requirements or any other supervisory and regulatory requirements (including those requirements set forth in the Consent Order and the Written Agreement), our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. A failure to meet regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, among other things, would further affect Doral Bank’s ability to accept or rollover brokered deposits and could result in additional supervisory actions by federal and/or Puerto Rico banking authorities. The hedging transactions that we enter into may not be effective in managing the exposure to interest rate risk. We use derivatives, to a limited extent, to manage part of our exposure to market risk caused by changes in interest rates. The derivative instruments that we may use also have their own risks, which include: (i) basis risk, which is the risk of loss associated with variations in the spread between the asset yield and funding and/or hedge cost; (ii) credit or default risk, which is the risk of insolvency or other inability of the counterparty to a particular transaction to perform its obligations; and (iii) legal risk, which is the risk that we are unable to enforce the terms of such instruments. All or any of these risks could expose us to losses. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, our risk management policies and procedures may be inadequate and operational risk could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. We may fail to identify and manage risks related to a variety of aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, operational risk, interest-rate risk, trading risk, fiduciary risk, legal and compliance risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. We have adopted various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risk, and we currently believe that our risk management policies and procedures are effective. Nonetheless, if our risk management controls, procedures, policies and systems, including those designed to protect our networks, systems, computers and data from attack, damage or unauthorized access, were to fail or be circumvented, we could incur losses or suffer reputational damage or find ourselves out of compliance with applicable regulatory mandates or expectations. Some of our methods for managing risks and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based upon historical models. As a result, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. This information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. 41 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may also be subject to disruptions from external events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing and financial market settlement functions. In addition, our customers, vendors and counterparties could suffer from such events. Should these events affect us, or the customers, vendors or counterparties with which we conduct business, our consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected. When we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies related to operational losses, we may be unable to accurately estimate our potential exposure, and any reserves we establish to cover operational losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition for the periods in which we recognize the losses. A breach in the security of our systems could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and create significant financial and legal exposure for us. Our businesses are dependent on our ability and the ability of our third party service providers to process, record and monitor a large number of transactions. If the financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities fail to operate properly, become disabled, experience security breaches or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. Although we and our third party service providers devote significant resources to maintain and upgrade our systems and processes that are designed to protect the security of computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets and the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information belonging to us and our customers, there is no assurance that our security systems and those of our third party service providers will provide absolute security. Financial services institutions and companies engaged in data processing have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber-attacks and other means. Despite our efforts and those of our third party service providers to ensure the integrity of these systems, it is possible that we or our third party service providers may not be able to anticipate or to implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types, especially because techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources. A successful breach of the security of our systems or those of our third party service providers could cause serious negative consequences to us, including significant disruption of our operations, misappropriation of our confidential information or the confidential information of our customers, or damage to our computers or operating systems, and could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to us or to our customers, loss in confidence in our security measures, customer dissatisfaction, litigation exposure, and harm to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on us. We could incur increased costs or reductions in revenue or suffer reputational damage in the event of misuse of information. Our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks regarding our customers and their accounts. To provide these products and services, we use information systems and infrastructure that we and third party service providers operate. As a financial institution, we also are subject to and examined for compliance with an array of data protection laws, regulations and guidance, as well as to our own internal privacy and information security policies and programs. Information security risks for financial institutions like us have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers and other external parties. Our technologies and systems may become the target of cyber-attacks or other attacks that could result in the misuse or destruction of our or our customers’ confidential, proprietary or other information or that could result in disruptions to the business operations of us or our customers or other third parties. Also, our customers, in order to access some of our products and services, may use personal computers, smart mobile 42 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements phones, tablet PCs and other devices that are beyond our controls and security systems. Further, a breach or attack affecting one of our third-party service providers or partners could impact us through no fault of our own. In addition, because the methods and techniques employed by perpetrators of fraud and others to attack systems and applications change frequently and often are not fully recognized or understood until after they have been launched, we and our third-party service providers and partners may be unable to anticipate certain attack methods in order to implement effective preventative measures. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible security breach of our information systems, if unauthorized persons were somehow to get access to confidential or proprietary information in our possession or to our proprietary information, it could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation or a loss of confidence in the security of our systems that could adversely affect our business. The preparation of our financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make significant estimates that affect our financial statements. Three of Doral Financial’s most critical estimates are the level of the allowance for loan and lease losses, the valuation of mortgage servicing rights and the reserve for deferred tax assets. Due to the inherent nature of these estimates we may significantly increase the allowance for loan and lease losses and/or sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the provided allowance, and may recognize a significant provision for impairment of our mortgage servicing rights. If Doral Financial’s allowance for loan and lease losses turns out to be insufficient to cover actual losses in our loan portfolio, our business, financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, in the future, Doral Financial may have to increase its allowance for loan and lease losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its capital and results of operations. Maintaining deferred tax assets without reserves requires generation of future taxable income levels that provides for use of the deferred tax assets in the future. Defective and repurchased loans may harm our business and financial condition. In connection with the sale and securitization of mortgage loans, we are generally required to make a variety of customary representations and warranties regarding us and the loans being sold or securitized. Our obligations with respect to these representations and warranties are generally outstanding for the life of the loan, and they relate to, among other things: • compliance with laws and regulations; • underwriting standards; • the accuracy of information in the loan documents and loan file; and • the characteristics and enforceability of the loan. A loan that does not comply with these representations and warranties may take longer to sell, may impact our ability to obtain third-party financing for the loan, and be unsalable or salable only at a significant discount. If such a loan is sold before we detect a noncompliance, we may be obligated to repurchase the loan and bear any associated loss directly, or we may be obligated to indemnify the purchaser against any such loss, either of which could reduce our cash available for operations and liquidity. Our management believes that it has established controls to ensure that loans are originated in accordance with the secondary market’s requirements, but mistakes may be made, or certain employees may deliberately violate our lending policies. We seek to minimize repurchases and losses from defective loans by correcting flaws, if possible, and selling or re-selling such loans. We do not have a reserve on our financial statements for possible losses related to repurchases resulting from representation and warranty violations because we do not expect any such losses to be significant. Losses associated with defective loans may adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. 43 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We are exposed to credit risk from mortgage loans held pending sale and mortgage loans that have been sold subject to recourse arrangements. We are generally at risk for mortgage loan defaults from the time we fund a loan until the time the loan is sold or securitized into a mortgage-backed security. In the past, we retained, through recourse arrangements, part of the credit risk on sales of mortgage loans that did not qualify for GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC sale or exchange programs and consequently may suffer losses on these loans. We suffer losses on these loans when the proceeds from a foreclosure sale of the property underlying a defaulted mortgage loan are less than the outstanding principal balance of the loan and the costs of holding and disposing of the related property. We estimate the fair value of the retained recourse obligation or of any liability incurred at the time of sale, and include such obligation with the net proceeds from the sale, resulting in lower gain-on-sale recognition. We evaluate the fair value of our recourse obligation based on historical losses from foreclosure and disposition of mortgage loans adjusted for expectations of changes in portfolio behavior and market environment. We are subject to risks in servicing loans for others. Our profitability may also be adversely affected by mortgage loan delinquencies and defaults on mortgage loans that we service for third parties. Under many of our servicing contracts, we must advance all or part of the scheduled payments to the owner of an outstanding mortgage loan, even when mortgage loan payments are delinquent. In addition, in order to protect their liens on mortgaged properties, owners of mortgage loans usually require that we, as servicer, pay mortgage and hazard insurance and tax payments on schedule even if sufficient escrow funds are not available. We generally recover our advances from the mortgage owner or from liquidation proceeds when the mortgage loan is foreclosed. However, in the interim, we must absorb the cost of the funds we advance during the time the advance is outstanding. We must also bear the costs of attempting to collect on delinquent and defaulted mortgage loans. In addition, if a default is not cured, the mortgage loan will be canceled as part of the foreclosure proceedings and we will not receive any future servicing income with respect to that loan. As a result of our credit ratings, we may be subjected to increased collateral requirements and other measures that could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We have previously sold or securitized mortgage loans in transactions with FNMA and other counterparties subject to partial or full recourse. As of December 31, 2012, the maximum contractual exposure to us if we were required to purchase all loans sold subject to partial or full recourse was $476.7 million, $388.9 million of which consisted of exposure to FNMA. Our contractual agreements with FNMA authorize FNMA to require us to post additional collateral to secure our recourse obligations with FNMA, and FNMA has the contractual right to request collateral for the full amount of our recourse obligations when, as now, we do not maintain an investment grade rating. In January 2006, we agreed to post with FNMA $44.0 million in collateral to secure our recourse obligations, and currently have $44.9 million pledged to FNMA as collateral. In addition, certain of our servicing agreements, such as those with FNMA, FHLMC, and GNMA, contain provisions triggered by changes in our financial condition or failure to maintain required credit ratings. We do not currently maintain the credit ratings required by GNMA and possibly other counterparties, which may result in increased collateral requirements and/or require us to engage a substitute fund custodian, or could result in termination of our servicing rights. Termination of our servicing rights, requirements to post additional collateral or the loss of custodian funds could reduce our liquidity and have an adverse impact on our operating results. Our ability to sell loans and other mortgage products to government-sponsored entities could be impacted by changes in our financial condition or the historical performance of our mortgage products. Our ability to sell mortgage products to government-sponsored entities (“GSEs”), such as FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA, depends, among other things, on our financial condition and the historical performance of our mortgage products. To protect our ability to continue to sell mortgage products to GNMA and other GSEs, we have and may in the future repurchase defaulted loans from such counterparties. During 2012 and 2011, we repurchased $42.0 million and $54.7 million, respectively, of defaulted FHA guaranteed loans from GNMA. Any 44 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements such repurchases in the future may negatively impact our liquidity and operating results. Termination of our ability to sell mortgage products to the GSEs would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may fail to retain and attract key employees and management personnel. Our success has been and will continue to be influenced by our ability to retain and attract key employees and management personnel, including senior and middle management. Our ability to attract and retain key employees and management personnel may be adversely affected as a result of the workload and stress associated with our business transformation efforts, and related regulatory risks and uncertainties; and the consolidation of the Puerto Rico banking industry. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect the profitability of our operations. We face significant competition from other financial institutions, many of which have significantly greater assets, capital and other resources. As a result, many of our competitors have advantages in conducting certain businesses and providing certain services. This competitive environment could force us to increase the rates we offer on deposits or lower the rates we charge on loans and, consequently, could adversely affect the profitability of our operations. Damage to our reputation could damage our businesses. Maintaining a positive reputation for Doral Financial is critical to our ability to attract and maintain customers, investors and employees. Damage to our reputation can therefore cause significant harm to our business and prospects. Harm to our reputation can arise from numerous sources, including, among others, employee misconduct, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum standards of service and quality, compliance failures, unethical behavior, and the activities of customers and counterparties. Negative publicity regarding Doral Financial, whether or not true, may also result in harm to our prospects. We must respond to rapid technological changes, and these changes may be more difficult or expensive than anticipated. If competitors introduce new products and services embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing product and service offerings, technology and systems may become obsolete. Further, if we fail to adopt or develop new technologies or to adapt our products and services to emerging industry standards, we may lose current and future customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is changing rapidly and in order to remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products, services and technologies. These changes may be more difficult or expensive than we anticipate. In addition, our networks, systems, computers and data could become vulnerable to attack, damage or unauthorized access as a result of rapid technological changes. Doral Financial has been the subject of an investigation by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York, which could require it to pay substantial fines or penalties. On August 24, 2005, Doral Financial received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York regarding the production of certain documents, including financial statements and corporate, auditing and accounting records prepared during the period relating to the restatement of Doral Financial’s financial statements. Doral Financial cannot predict when this investigation will be completed or what the results of this investigation will be. The effects and results of this investigation could have a material adverse effect on Doral Financial’s business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Adverse developments related to this investigation, including any expansion of its scope, could negatively impact Doral Financial and could divert efforts and attention of its management team from Doral Financial’s ordinary business operations. Doral Financial may be required to pay material fines, judgments or settlements or suffer other penalties, each of which could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 45 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements This investigation could adversely affect Doral Financial’s ability to obtain, and/or increase the cost of obtaining, directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and/or other types of insurance, which could have a material adverse effect on Doral Financial’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Doral Financial may be required to advance significant amounts to cover the reasonable legal and other expenses of its former officers and directors. Under Doral Financial’s by-laws, Doral Financial is obligated to pay in advance the reasonable expenses incurred by former officers and directors in defending civil or criminal actions or proceedings pending final disposition of such actions. Since 2005, Doral Financial has been advancing funds on behalf of various former officers and directors in connection with the grand jury proceeding referred to above and investigations by the SEC relating to the restatement of Doral Financial’s financial statements. On March 6, 2008, a former treasurer of Doral Financial was indicted for alleged criminal violations involving securities and wire fraud. On April 29, 2010, the former treasurer of Doral Financial was convicted on three of the five counts of securities and wire fraud he was facing after a five-week jury trial, which conviction he is appealing. On August 13, 2009, the former treasurer of Doral Financial filed a complaint against Doral Financial in the Supreme Court of the State of New York. The complaint alleges that Doral Financial breached a contract with the plaintiff and Doral Financial’s by-laws by failing to advance payment of certain legal fees and expenses that the former treasurer has incurred in connection with a criminal indictment filed against him in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. Further, the complaint claims that Doral Financial fraudulently induced the plaintiff to enter into agreements concerning the settlement of a civil litigation arising from the restatement of Doral Financial’s financial statements for fiscal years 2000 through 2004. The complaint seeks declaratory relief, damages, costs and expenses. The former treasurer further moved for preliminary injunctive relief. On December 16, 2009, the parties entered into a Settlement Agreement. On December 17, 2009, the former treasurer’s motion for a preliminary injunction was denied as moot, and all further proceedings were stayed, but the procedures for future disputes between the parties outlined in the Settlement Agreement were not affected by the stay. The amounts required to be advanced in an appeal of the criminal conviction could be substantial and could materially adversely affect Doral Financial’s results of operations. Our businesses may be adversely affected by litigation. From time to time, our customers, or the government on their behalf, may make claims and take legal action relating to our performance of fiduciary or contractual responsibilities. We may also face employment lawsuits or other legal claims. In any such claims or actions, demands for substantial monetary damages may be asserted against us resulting in financial liability or an adverse affect to our reputation among investors or to customer demand for our products and services. We may be unable to accurately estimate our exposure to litigation risk when we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies. As a result, any reserves we establish to cover any settlements or judgments may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In the ordinary course of our business, we are also subject to various regulatory, governmental and law enforcement inquiries, investigations and subpoenas. These may be directed generally to participants in the businesses in which we are involved or may be specifically directed at us. In regulatory enforcement matters, claims for disgorgement, the imposition of penalties and the imposition of other remedial sanctions are possible. The resolution of legal actions or regulatory matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations for the period in which such actions or matters are resolved or a reserve is established. Risks Related to the General Business Environment and our Industry Our credit quality may continue to be adversely affected by Puerto Rico’s recessionary economic conditions. Because a majority of our business activities and credit exposure are still concentrated in Puerto Rico, our financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on economic conditions in Puerto Rico. 46 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The economy of Puerto Rico entered into a recession in the fourth quarter of the government’s fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. For fiscal years 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, Puerto Rico’s real gross national product decreased by 1.2%, 2.9%, 3.8%, 3.4% and 1.5%, respectively. According to the projections of the Puerto Rico Planning Board, a government agency, made in November 2012, real gross national product for fiscal years 2012 and 2013 is expected to increase by 0.4% and 0.6%, respectively, although there can be no assurance this will prove accurate. The long recession in Puerto Rico has resulted in, among other things, a reduction in lending activity and an increase in the rate of default in commercial loans, commercial real estate loans, construction loans, consumer loans and residential mortgages. We have also experienced significant losses on our Puerto Rico loan portfolio due to a higher level of defaults on commercial loans, commercial real estate loans, construction loans, consumer loans and residential mortgages. The prolonged recessionary economic environment in Puerto Rico accelerated the devaluation of properties and increased portfolio delinquency when compared with previous periods. The continuation of the economic slowdown would cause those adverse effects to continue, as delinquency rates may continue to increase in the short term, until sustainable growth of the Puerto Rico economy resumes. Also, potential reduction in consumer spending as a result of continued recessionary conditions may also impact growth in our other interest and non-interest revenue sources. Additional economic weakness in Puerto Rico and the U.S. mainland could further pressure residential property values, loan delinquencies, foreclosures and the cost of repossessing and disposing of real estate collateral. Our business concentration in Puerto Rico imposes risks. We conduct our operations in a geographically concentrated area, as our main market is in Puerto Rico. This imposes risks from lack of diversification in the geographical portfolio. Our financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on the economic conditions of Puerto Rico, where adverse political development, continued recessionary economic conditions or natural disasters, among other things, could affect the volume of loan originations, increase the level of non-performing assets, increase the rate of foreclosure losses and reduce the value of our loans and loan servicing portfolio. Difficult market conditions have already affected us and our industry and may continue to adversely affect us. Given that almost all of our business is in Puerto Rico and the United States and given the degree of interrelation between Puerto Rico’s economy and that of the United States, we are particularly exposed to downturns in the United States economy. Dramatic declines in the United States housing market over the past few years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial banks and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital from private and government entities, to merge with larger and stronger financial institutions and, in some cases, to fail. This market turmoil and tightening of credit led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has already adversely affected our industry and has and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We experienced increased levels of non-performing assets and OTTI charges and losses on our non-agency mortgage-backed securities as a result of past market conditions. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. 47 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • The processes and models we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecast of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation and which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the processes and models. • Regulatory agency views of market conditions and the effect of market conditions on our borrowers may differ from those of our management, and such variance in views, if any, may contribute to increases in charge-offs and loan loss provisions. • Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to engage in sales of mortgage loans to third parties (including mortgage loan securitization transactions with government sponsored entities) on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including deteriorating investor expectations. • Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. • We may be required to pay in the future significantly higher FDIC assessments to insure our deposits if our FDIC assessment ratings continue to deteriorate or if market conditions do not improve or worsen. • We may face higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or regulatory action that either (i) reduces the amount that our borrowers are required to pay us, or (ii) limits our ability to foreclose on properties or collateral or makes foreclosures less economically viable. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, our ability to access capital and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We have been and could continue to be negatively affected by adverse economic conditions. The United States and other countries recently faced a severe economic crisis, including a major recession. These adverse economic conditions have negatively affected, and are likely to continue to negatively affect for some time, our assets, including our loans and securities portfolios, capital levels, results of operations and financial condition. In response to the economic crisis, the United States and other governments established a variety of programs and policies designed to mitigate the effects of the crisis. These programs and policies appear to have stabilized the severe financial crisis that occurred in the second half of 2008, but the extent to which these programs and policies will assist in an economic recovery or may lead to adverse consequences, whether anticipated or unanticipated, is still unclear. If these programs and policies are ineffective in bringing about an economic recovery or result in substantial adverse developments, the economic conditions may again become more severe, or adverse economic conditions may continue for a substantial period of time. In addition, economic uncertainty that may result from the downgrading of United States long-term debt, from the fiscal imbalances in federal, state and local municipal finances combined with the political difficulties in resolving these imbalances, and from the debt and other economic problems of several European countries, may directly or indirectly adversely impact economic conditions faced by us and our customers. Any increase in the severity or duration of adverse economic conditions, including a double-dip recession in the United States or a further delay in the economic recovery of Puerto Rico, would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected if we cannot maintain access to stable funding sources. The credit markets, although recovering, have experienced extreme volatility and disruption in recent years. At times during the past few years, the volatility and disruptions reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity of certain issuers, particularly for non-investment grade issuers like us. Our business requires continuous access to various funding sources. We need liquidity to, among other things, pay our operating expenses, pay interest on our debt, maintain our lending and investment activities and 48 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements replace certain maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we may be forced to curtail our operations. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit and our credit capacity. Our cash flows and financial condition could be materially affected by disruptions in the financial markets. We are generally able to fund our operations through deposits as well as through advances from the FHLB and other alternative sources such as repurchase agreements, loans and brokered deposits. We expect to have continued access to credit from the foregoing sources of funds. However, there can be no assurance that such financing sources will continue to be available or will be available on favorable terms. In a period of financial disruption, or if negative developments occur with respect to us, the availability and cost of funding sources could be adversely affected. Our efforts to monitor and manage liquidity risk may not be successful to deal with dramatic or unanticipated changes in the global markets or other reductions in liquidity driven by us or market-related events. In the event that such sources of funds are reduced or eliminated and we are not able to replace them on a cost-effective basis, we may be forced to curtail our loan origination and investment activities, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Brokered deposits are typically sold through an intermediary to retail investors. Our ability to continue to attract brokered deposits is subject to variability based on a number of factors, including volume and volatility in the global markets, our credit rating and the relative interest rates that we are prepared to pay for these liabilities. Brokered deposits are generally considered a less stable source of funding than core deposits obtained through retail bank branches. Investors in brokered deposits are generally more sensitive to interest rates and will generally move funds from one depository institution to another based on small differences in interest rates on deposits. An unforeseen disruption in the brokered deposits market, stemming from factors such as legal, regulatory or financial risks, could adversely affect our ability to fund a portion of our operations and/or meet obligations. Recent and/or future U.S. credit downgrades or changes in outlook by major credit rating agencies may have an adverse effect on financial markets, including financial institutions and the financial industry. On August 5, 2011, Standard and Poor’s downgraded the United States long-term debt rating from its AAA rating to AA+. On August 8, 2011, Standard and Poor’s downgraded from AAA to AA+ the credit ratings of certain long-term debt instruments issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and other United States government agencies linked to long-term United States debt. It is difficult to predict the effect of these actions, or any future downgrades or changes in outlook by Standard & Poor’s or either of the other two major credit rating agencies. However, these events could impact the trading market for United States government securities, including agency securities, and the securities markets more broadly, and consequently could impact the value and liquidity of financial assets, including assets in our investment portfolio. These actions could also create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which may negatively affect the global banking system and limit the availability of funding, including borrowing under repurchase agreements, at reasonable terms. In turn, this could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, investment companies and other institutional clients. In certain of these transactions, we are required to post collateral to secure our obligations to the counterparties. In the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding involving one of such counterparties, we may experience delays in recovering the assets posted as collateral or may incur a loss to the extent that the counterparty was holding collateral in excess of the obligation to such counterparty. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is 49 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, our earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve to implement these objectives are open market operations in U.S. government securities, adjustments of the discount rate and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The effects of such policies upon our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adverse. Our income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies (in particular, the Federal Reserve). Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the prepayment speed of loans, the value of loans, investment securities and mortgage servicing assets, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits, and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will affect our business. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. Some of the provisions of the legislation have already become effective. Other provisions will have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates, and will be required to be implemented through regulatory action of various federal regulatory authorities. Because many of the provisions require future regulatory actions for their implementation, the ultimate impact of the legislation on the financial services industry and on our business, are not completely known at this time. The implementation of many of the provisions of the legislation will affect our business and are expected to add new regulatory risk and compliance burdens and costs on the financial services industry and us. The implementation of this legislation could result in loss of revenue, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities we might otherwise consider engaging in, impact the value of some of the assets we hold, require us to change certain of our business practices, impose additional costs on us, establish more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements, or otherwise adversely affect our business. Implementation of BASEL III could reduce our regulatory capital ratios and increase regulatory capital requirements. In June 2012, Agencies issued NPRs that would revise and replace the Agencies’ current capital rules to align with the BASEL III capital standards and meet certain requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act. Certain requirements of the proposed NPRs would establish more restrictive requirements for instruments to qualify as capital, higher risk-weightings for certain asset classes (including non-performing loans, certain commercial real estate loans, and certain types of residential mortgage loans), capital buffers and higher minimum capital ratios. The proposed NPRs provided for a comment period through October 22, 2012 and the proposals are subject to further modification by the Agencies prior to being issued in final form. The proposals suggested an effective date of January 1, 2013, but on November 9, 2012 the Agencies issued a statement saying that given the volume of comments and wide range of views expressed, the Agencies did not expect that any of the proposed rules would become effective on January 1, 2013. The proposed revisions would, among other things, include implementation of a new common equity Tier 1 minimum capital requirement and apply limits on a banking organization’s capital distributions and certain 50 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements discretionary bonus payments if the banking organization does not hold a specified amount of common equity Tier 1 capital in addition to the amount necessary to meet its minimum risk-based capital requirements. The NPRs also would establish more conservative standards for including an instrument in regulatory capital. The revisions set forth in these NPRs are consistent with section 171 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which requires the Agencies to establish minimum risk-based and leverage capital requirements. The Agencies are also proposing to revise their rules for calculating risk-weighted assets to enhance risk sensitivity and address weaknesses identified over recent years. The revisions include methodologies for determining risk-weighted assets for residential mortgages, securitization exposures, and counterparty credit risk. The implementation of the NPRs as proposed could reduce our regulatory capital ratios. We operate within a highly regulated industry and our business and results are significantly affected by the regulations to which we are subject; changes in statutes and regulations could adversely affect us. We operate within a highly regulated environment. The regulations to which we are subject will continue to have a significant impact on our operations and the degree to which we can grow and be profitable. Certain regulators which supervise us have significant power in reviewing our operations and approving our business practices. These powers include the ability to place limitations or conditions on activities in which we engage or intend to engage. Particularly in recent years, our businesses have experienced increased regulation and regulatory scrutiny, often requiring additional resources. We are also subject to the requirements and limitations of the Consent Order and the Written Agreement. If we do not comply with governmental regulations and other supervisory requirements, we may become subject to fines, penalties, lawsuits or material restrictions on our businesses in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred, which may adversely affect our business operations. In addition, new proposals for legislation continue to be introduced in the United States Congress or the Puerto Rico Legislature that could further increase regulation of the financial services industry and impose restrictions on the operations and general ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. We cannot predict the substance or impact of any change in regulation, whether by regulators or as a result of legislation enacted by the United States Congress or by the Puerto Rico Legislature, or in the way such statutory or regulatory requirements are interpreted or enforced. Compliance with such current and potential regulation and scrutiny may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business practices, require us to increase our regulatory capital and limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities in an efficient manner. Further increases in the FDIC insurance assessment premiums or required reserves may have a significant impact on us. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured depository institutions up to certain limits. The FDIC charges insured depository institutions premiums to maintain the DIF. Recent economic conditions have resulted in higher bank failures and expectations of future bank failures. In the event of a bank failure, the FDIC takes control of a failed bank and ensures payment of deposits up to insured limits (which were permanently increased to $250,000 by the Dodd-Frank Act) using the resources of the DIF. The FDIC is required by law to maintain adequate funding of the DIF, and the FDIC may increase premium assessments to maintain such funding. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to increase the DIF’s reserves against future losses, which will necessitate increased deposit insurance premiums. In October 2010, the FDIC addressed plans to bolster the DIF by increasing the required reserve ratio for the industry to 1.35 percent (ratio of reserves to insured deposits) by September 30, 2020, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. In December 2010, the FDIC approved a final rule raising its industry target ratio of reserves to insured deposits to 2 percent, 65 basis points above the statutory minimum, but the FDIC does not project that goal to be met until 2027. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC approved a final rule that amended the deposit insurance assessment regulations. The final rule implemented a provision in the Dodd-Frank Act that changes the assessment base for deposit insurance premiums from one based on domestic deposits to one based on average consolidated total 51 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements assets minus average Tier 1 Capital. The final rule also changed the assessment rate schedules for insured depository institutions so that approximately the same amount of revenue would be collected under the new assessment base as would be collected under the then current rate schedule and the schedules previously proposed by the FDIC in October 2010. We are generally unable to control the amount of assessments that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, or if our risk rating deteriorates for purposes of determining the level of our FDIC insurance assessments, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC insurance assessments than the recently increased levels. Any future increases in FDIC insurance assessments may materially adversely affect our results of operations. The consolidation of the Puerto Rico banking industry as a result of bank failures in 2010 may adversely affect us. In April 2010, the FDIC closed three Puerto Rico banks and sold some of their assets and liabilities to other banks in Puerto Rico. In the future, there may be additional bank failures, mergers and acquisitions in our industry. Any business combinations could significantly alter industry conditions and competition within the Puerto Rico banking industry and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the strategies adopted by the FDIC and the three acquiring banks in connection with some of the residential, construction and commercial real estate loans acquired may adversely affect residential and commercial real estate values in Puerto Rico. This in turn may adversely affect the value of some of our residential, construction and commercial real estate loans, and our ability to sell or restructure some of our residential, construction and commercial real estate loans. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements. Our financial statements are subject to the application of US GAAP, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards and updates thereto issued by FASB. Market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to promulgate new requirements that further interpret or seek to revise accounting pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or transactions as well as to revise standards to expand disclosures. The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed by us in footnotes to our financial statements included in our filings with the SEC. An assessment of proposed standards and updates thereto is not provided as such proposals are still subject to change. It is possible that future accounting standards and updates thereto that we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks related to our common stock Our common stock may be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange On November 8, 2012, we were notified by the NYSE that the average per share closing price of our common stock during the 30 trading-day period ending October 31, 2012 was below the NYSE’s continued listing standard relating to minimum average closing share price. The NYSE’s Listed Company Manual provides that we will be considered to be below compliance standards if the average closing price of our common stock is less than $1.00 over a consecutive 30 trading-day period. We have six months from receipt of the notice to regain compliance with the NYSE’s price condition and bring our share price and average share price back above $1.00 per share. We notified the NYSE that we intend to regain compliance with the NYSE’s price condition and bring our share price and average share price back above $1.00 per share. Among other things, if we effectuate a reverse stock split vote at our next annual meeting of stockholders to cure the condition, the condition will be deemed cured if the price promptly exceeds $1.00 per share, and the price remains above the level for at least the following 30 trading days. 52 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements It is not certain that we will be able to regain compliance with the NYSE’s price condition within the time frame allotted. Delisting from the NYSE would have an adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock and, as a result, the market price of our common stock would be adversely affected. Additional issuances of common stock or securities convertible into common stock may further dilute existing holders of our common stock. We may determine that it is advisable, or we may encounter circumstances where we determine it is necessary, to issue additional shares of our common stock, securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our common stock, or common-equivalent securities to fund strategic initiatives or other business needs or to raise additional capital. Depending on our capital needs, we may make such a determination in the near future or in subsequent periods. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of any such future offering, as well as other sales of a large block of shares of our common stock or similar securities in the market thereafter, or the perception that such sales could occur. In addition, such additional equity issuances would reduce any earnings available to the holders of our common stock and the return thereon unless our earnings increase correspondingly. We cannot predict the timing or size of future equity issuances, if any, or the effect that they may have on the market price of our common stock. The issuance of substantial amounts of equity, or the perception that such issuances may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Dividends on our common stock have been suspended; Doral Financial may not be able to pay dividends on its common stock in the future. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. On April 25, 2006, we announced that, as a prudent capital management decision designed to preserve and strengthen our capital, our board of directors had suspended the quarterly dividend on our common stock. In addition, we will be unable to pay dividends on our common stock unless and until we resume payments of dividends on our preferred stock, which were suspended by our board of directors in March 2009. Our ability to pay dividends in the future is limited by various regulatory requirements and policies of bank regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over Doral Financial and such other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Under the Written Agreement, we are restricted from paying dividends on our capital stock without the prior written approval of the Federal Reserve Bank and the Director of the Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation of the Federal Reserve. We are required to request permission for the payment of dividends on our common stock and preferred stock not less than 30 days prior to a proposed dividend declaration date. We may not receive approval for the payment of such dividends in the future or, even with such approval, our board of directors may not resume payment of dividends. The price of our common stock may be subject to fluctuations and volatility. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations because of factors specifically related to our businesses and general market conditions. Factors that could cause such fluctuations, many of which could be beyond our control, include the following: • changes or perceived changes in the condition, operations, results or prospects of our businesses and market assessments of these changes or perceived changes; • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; • changes in governmental regulations or proposals, or new governmental regulations or proposals, affecting us, including those relating to general market or economic conditions and those that may be specifically directed to us; • the continued decline, failure to stabilize or lack of improvement in general market and economic conditions in our principal markets; 53 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • the departure of key personnel; • changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets; • operating results that vary from expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us; • changes in financial reports by securities analysts; • developments related to investigations, proceedings, or litigation that involves us and developments relating to the Consent Order and the Written Agreement; and • the occurrence of major catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks. All of our debt obligations and our preferred stock will have priority over our common stock with respect to payment in the event of a liquidation, dissolution or winding up. In any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Doral Financial, our common stock would rank below all debt claims against us and all of our outstanding shares of preferred stock. As a result, holders of our common stock will not be entitled to receive any payment or other distribution of assets upon our liquidation or dissolution until after our obligations to our debt holders and holders of preferred stock have been satisfied. Our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and certain banking law provisions contain provisions that could discourage an acquisition or change of control of Doral Financial. Certain provisions under Puerto Rico and federal banking laws and regulations, together with certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, may make it more difficult to effect a change in control of our company, to acquire us or to replace incumbent management. These provisions could potentially deprive our stockholders of opportunities to sell shares of our common stock at above-market prices. Our suspension of preferred stock dividends could result in the expansion of our board of directors. On March 20, 2009, our board of directors announced that it had suspended the declaration and payment of all dividends on all outstanding series of our convertible preferred stock and our noncumulative preferred stock. The suspension of dividends for our noncumulative preferred stock was effective and commenced with the dividends for the month of April 2009. The suspension of dividends for our convertible preferred stock was effective and commenced with the dividends for the quarter commencing in April 2009. Since we have not paid dividends in full on our noncumulative preferred stock for at least eighteen consecutive monthly periods, or paid dividends in full on our convertible preferred stock for consecutive dividend periods containing in the aggregate a number of days equivalent to at least six fiscal quarters, the holders of our preferred stock, all acting together as a single class, have the right to elect two additional members to our board of directors. We called a special meeting of our preferred stockholders to be held on August 3, 2011 to permit holders of our preferred stock to nominate and seek to have elected the two additional members to our board of directors. Due to the lack of a quorum, the Special Meeting was not able to be held. The holders of 10% of the total number of outstanding shares of our preferred stock, all acting together as a single class, are entitled to call a special meeting for the election of two additional members to our board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 