ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business We are subject to cyclical downturns in the electronics and semiconductor industries. Our business depends partially on the capital expenditures of electronics semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on current and anticipated market demand for printed circuit boards and integrated circuits and the products that use them. The electronics semiconductor industries have historically been cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns that have had a material adverse effect on the demand for electronic semiconductor equipment, including equipment that we manufacture and market. During periods of declining demand, we may have difficulty aligning our costs with prevailing market conditions, as well as motivating and retaining key employees. In particular, our inventory levels during periods of reduced demand may be higher than optimal, and we may be required to make inventory valuation adjustments in future periods. During periods of rapid growth, on the other hand, we may fail to acquire and/or develop sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand, and we may fail to hire and assimilate a sufficient number of qualified people. Our business may be adversely affected if we fail to respond to rapidly changing industry cycles in a timely and effective manner. The recent, unprecedented decline in global market conditions has resulted, and may continue to result in, decreased demand in the electronics and semiconductor industries. Due to our participation in these industries, our results are particularly susceptible to such downturns. We have shifted a significant and growing portion of our production capacity to a manufacturing facility in Shanghai, China. We may encounter manufacturing problems associated with managing these operations. In 2004, we began manufacturing and material sourcing operations in a facility in Shanghai, China. The volume of our products produced in China is now approximately one half of our total production. The successful operation of our facility in China is important to our ability to remain profitable and competitive. We may encounter difficulty with the management, technical and administrative organization requirements of doing business in China. If we are not successful in managing our operation in China, our business and profitability will be adversely affected. In the past few years, we have substantially improved our global supply chain and reduced our material costs. Failure to maintain these cost reductions would negatively affect our profit margins. In the last few years, we have substantially improved our global supply chain and reduced our material costs. These efforts have resulted in a major improvement in gross margins in our Pyramax product line as well as reduced costs for our solar metallization line. While continuous improvement in the supply chain is a key strategic imperative, we may not be successful in achieving our cost reduction goals, in which case further increases in our gross margins would not be achieved. If our costs increase, our gross margin gains will erode. This could be caused by foreign exchange trends, supplier cost increases, increase in fuel costs and other factors. The recent volatility in the global markets makes it difficult to predict whether we will be able to continue to maintain these cost reductions in the future. The Company has made substantial investments in its organization to develop new products for the alternative energy market. Sales of our products to the alternative energy generation markets are subject to substantial risks. Solar Energy. The solar energy sector is partially dependent upon continuation of governmental subsidies that may not continue and the supply of materials that may be constrained. A decline in these subsidies would reduce our ability to grow our business in this market segment. The solar energy sector also depends on the availability of raw materials such as silicon. Limits in the supply of these raw materials will constrain growth in this sector and, therefore, limit our prospects for increasing sales in this area. 9 Table of Contents Nuclear Energy. The market for nuclear fuel pellets used in power generation is dependent upon further growth in nuclear power production. Consequently, without growth in the production of nuclear power, our opportunities to grow in this area will be limited. In addition, we may need export licenses to supply this type of equipment to several countries. Failure to maintain such licenses or obtain new required licenses will limit our ability to expand our revenue from this market. Fuel Cells. The developing fuel cell sector of the energy market is in an early stage of product development, without any guarantees of commercial success. There is considerable risk that this technology may not succeed and our sales to this market may not develop. Given our limited experience in this segment of the energy generation market, we may encounter problems growing this part of our business. The recent unprecedented decline in global market conditions has resulted and may continue to result in, decreased demand in the alternative energy markets. Due to participation in these markets, our results are particularly susceptible to such downturns. Failure to realize the full value of the AtmoPlas acquisitions could negatively affect the Company’s profitability. The AtmoPlas acquisition represents a development opportunity for the Company, yet at some risk. Should the Company fail to commercially actualize the potential developmental products and process applications, costs would have been and will be incurred by the Company without benefit. If we are unable to increase sales and reduce costs, our profitability may be affected negatively. We had an operating income of $0.3 million in 2008 versus $2.7 million in 2007. We attribute a large portion of the decrease in operating income in 2008 to increases in SG&A and RD&E expenses in support of our expanding alternative energy business. These increased costs are continuing in 2009. We may not experience the projected growth in our alternative energy business to offset the protected costs. Our future success will depend on our ability to effectively develop and market our products against those of our competitors. The industry in which we compete is extremely competitive. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and customer support capabilities and offer more extensive product offerings. If customers prefer products offered by our competitors, we will have difficulty maintaining or increasing our revenue. Our principal competitors for solder reflow systems are Vitronics-Soltec, Heller, Furakawa, ERSA, and Rehm. Our principal competitors for advanced semiconductor packaging are Sikama, SEMIgear and Heller. Our systems for the alternative energy markets and other applications compete primarily against products offered by Centrotherm, Schmid, Despatch, SierraTherm and Harper. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their current products and to introduce new products with improved performance capabilities. Our failure to introduce new products in a timely manner, or the introduction by our competitors of products with perceived or actual advantages, could result in reduced sales of, or lower margins on, our products. In future years, we expect to face increased competition based on price, particularly from companies in Asia. If we are unable to reduce the costs of our products or introduce new lower cost products, we may lose sales to these competitors. Our international sales and operations are subject to the economic, political, legal and business environments of the countries in which we do business, and our failure to operate successfully or adapt to changes in these environments could cause our international sales and operations to be limited or disrupted. Our international sales accounted for 77% of our consolidated revenue for 2008. We expect to continue to generate a significant percentage of our revenue outside the United States for the foreseeable future. In addition, 10 Table of Contents we have direct investments in a number of subsidiaries outside of the U.S., primarily in Asia and Europe. Our international operations could be limited or disrupted, and the value of our direct investments may be diminished, by any of the following: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • the imposition of governmental controls; • import and export license requirements; • political instability; • difficulties enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights; • terrorist activities and armed conflict; • restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities and trade restrictions; • changes in tax laws and tariffs; • costs and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and • longer customer payment cycles. Additionally, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage to foreign companies that are not subject to similar regulations. We conduct only a small portion of our sales in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We recognize foreign currency gains or losses arising from our operations in the period in which we incur those gains or losses. As a result, currency fluctuations among the U.S. dollar and the other currencies in which we do business have caused foreign currency transaction gains and losses in the past and will likely do so in the future. Because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates, we may suffer foreign currency transaction losses in the future due to the effect of exchange rate fluctuations. Over the past few years, a majority of our revenue has been generated from sales in the Asia Pacific region. Our operations are particularly vulnerable to instability in this region and competition from organizations based in this region. During 2008, 56% of our revenue was generated from sales in the Asia Pacific region. Political or economic instability in any of the major Asia Pacific economies may adversely impact the demand for capital equipment, including equipment of the type we manufacture and market. In addition, we face competition from a number of suppliers based in the Asia Pacific region that have certain advantages over U.S. suppliers, including us. These advantages include, among other things, lower operating and regulatory costs, proximity to customers, favorable tariffs and affiliation with significantly larger organizations. In addition, changes in the amount or price of electronics or solar cells produced in the Asia Pacific region could negatively impact spending by our customers. The cost of public company regulatory compliance in the United States places the Company at a competitive disadvantage in its primary geographical market. The Company is incurring and will continue to incur substantial increased internal staffing, external consulting, tax and audit costs to comply with governmental regulations imposed on public companies in the United States. The Company’s primary geographical growth market of opportunity is Asia for both the Company’s Electronics and Alternative Energy products. The Company is competitively disadvantaged as our Asian competitors are not subject to these same regulatory costs. In China our new business systems to manage our operations are still being improved. If they are not continually enhanced, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. On January 1, 2007, we implemented new enterprise resource planning and material resource planning systems at our Shanghai manufacturing operations. In 2008, our Shanghai personnel expanded their use of the 11 Table of Contents system. As our Chinese operations grow, the risks increase that we will not fully utilize the advanced material resource planning system, which could disrupt our business. In the U.S. our new business systems to manage our operation were activated on January 1, 2008. These systems are still being implemented. If they are not implemented effectively, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Over the past year, we have worked to insure a continual improvement in the implementation of the new operating system. However, much work lays ahead, and the risks associated with not fully utilizing our advanced enterprise resource planning and material resource planning systems could disrupt our business. The Company may be subject to some portion of an environmental clean-up under Superfund legislation. The Company is an equipment manufacturer that has some solid waste. Due to the fact that the Company utilized a waste disposal firm that disposed its solid waste at a site that the EPA has designated as a Superfund site, the Company has been named by the EPA as one of the entities potentially responsible for clean-up operations. Based on the EPA negotiated proportionment of responsibility, the Company has recorded its expected proportionment as a liability for a potential cash payment and settlement. Being an equipment manufacturer, the Company only deals with extremely small amounts of chemicals. The Company’s chemical waste were disposed under a controlled process that meets strict EPA approved disposal procedures and were not disposed at the Superfund site. If we fail to maintain positive relationships with key personnel, we may be unable to successfully grow our business. Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of our key personnel, some of whom are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements. Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, manufacturing, technical, engineering, marketing, sales and support personnel. Competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with technical skills, is intense, and we may fail to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or by our inability to attract and retain skilled employees. The income tax percentage on the Company’s consolidated income before taxes is subject to variables beyond our control. The Company’s net income and cash flow can be adversely affected by innumerable conditions affecting income taxes which are outside the Company’s scope of authority to control. To name but a few of the potential uncontrollable circumstances that could affect the consolidated tax rate: • The Company sells and operates globally with manufacturing in both the United States and China. Disagreements could occur on the jurisdiction of income and taxation among different country governmental tax authorities. Potential area of disputes could include transfer pricing values, inter-company cross charges and inter-company balances. • The Company is presently benefiting from a partial “tax holiday” in its Shanghai manufacturing subsidiary. Recently the Chinese government tax authorities announced the passage of legislation to impose an equalization of income tax rates for both domestic and foreign companies at a rate of 25%. This new law supersedes and overrides the Company’s tax holiday agreements. The applicability of this new uniform income tax rate law will have an adverse effect on the Company’s net income and cash flow. • The Company is subject to a China withholding tax on certain non-tangible soft charges made under its transfer pricing agreements. The interpretation of what charges are subject to the tax and when the liability for the tax occurs has varied and could change in the future. 12 Table of Contents • In the United States, new tax disclosure regulations, unfavorable interpretations and unforeseen enforcements by the government tax authorities of various provisions of the federal and state tax codes, could have an unfavorable impact on the amount and timing of the Company’s tax provision and cash flow. Failure of critical suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of parts in a timely and cost-effective manner would adversely impact our operations. Although we use numerous vendors to supply components for the manufacture of our products, not all are qualified suppliers for all of our parts. Some key parts may only be available from a single supplier. Accordingly, we may experience problems in obtaining adequate and reliable quantities of various components. In addition, suppliers may cease manufacturing certain components that are difficult to replace without significant reengineering of our products. Our results of operations will be materially adversely impacted if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of components in a timely and cost effective manner. The occurrence of natural disasters in the Asia Pacific region may adversely impact our operations and sales. We have an expanding engineering and manufacturing facility in China, and the majority of our sales are made to destinations in the Asia Pacific region. This region is known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, floods and avian (bird) flu, which at times have disrupted the local economies. A significant earthquake or health crisis could materially affect our operating results. We are not insured for most losses and business interruptions of this kind, and we do not have redundant, multiple site capacity in the event of a natural disaster. In the event of such a disaster, our business would suffer. Provisions in our organizational documents could prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to replace our current management and could make acquisitions more difficult. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. Our certificate of incorporation provides that our stockholders may not take action by written consent. This provision may have the effect of preventing or hindering attempts by our stockholders to replace our current management. Furthermore, Delaware law prohibits a corporation from engaging in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the corporation’s board of directors approves the transaction. Our board of directors may use this provision to prevent changes in our management. Also, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. Our officers and directors may be able to block proposals for a change in control. Paul J. van der Wansem, our chairman and chief executive officer, beneficially owns approximately 17.0% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2008. Due to this concentration of ownership, Mr. van der Wansem may be able to prevail on all matters requiring a stockholder vote, including: • the election of directors; • the amendment of our organizational documents; or • the approval of a merger, sale of assets, or other major corporate transaction. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION COMMENTS None. 13 Table of Contents 