Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, operating results and/or the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected by a number of risk factors. Readers should carefully consider, in connection with other information disclosed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the risk factors set forth below, as updated from time to time in filings made by the Company with the SEC. The risk factor disclosure set forth below describes some of the more important risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risk factors and other presently unforeseen risk factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or included in our other filings with the SEC. In addition, these risk factors and other presently unforeseen risk factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The risk factors described below are not the only risks faced by the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or currently deemed by the Company to be immaterial may also materially affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Please also refer to the section titled “Forward Looking Statements” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to our Business and Operations Operating restrictions and conditions under the Consent Order and the Written Agreement will increase Doral Financial’s operating costs and adversely affect Doral Financial’s results of operations. Doral Bank entered into the Consent Order with the FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner on August 8, 2012, and Doral Financial entered into the Written Agreement with the FRBNY on September 11, 2012. The Consent Order and the Written Agreement impose operating restrictions and conditions on Doral Bank and Doral Financial. Both the Consent Order and the Written Agreement increase our reporting obligations to our regulators. We anticipate that we will need to continue to dedicate significant resources to our efforts to comply with the Consent Order and the Written Agreement, which are expected to increase our operational costs and adversely affect the amount of time our management has to conduct our business. The additional operating costs to comply with, and the restrictions under, the Consent Order and the Written Agreement will adversely affect our results of operations. We may become the subject of additional regulatory actions that could materially adversely affect our results of operations or even lead to a resolution of Doral Bank. Under the Consent Order and the Written Agreement the FRBNY, FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner may impose conditions on Doral Financial and/or Doral Bank that one or both entities may not be able to comply with, or even if complied with may materially adversely affect Doral Financial’s and/or Doral Bank’s operations and liquidity and capital resources, as well as their ability to meet their regulatory or financial obligations. Our banking regulators could take additional actions to protect Doral Bank or to ensure that the holding company remains as a source of financial and managerial strength to Doral Bank, and such actions could have a material adverse effect on us. If we fail to comply with the Consent Order or the Written Agreement in the future, or if, in the opinion of the FRBNY, FDIC or the Office of the Commissioner, our financial, operating or 40 Table of Contents regulatory condition has significantly deteriorated, as a result of ongoing or future regulatory examinations, we may become subject to additional regulatory enforcement actions up to and including the appointment of a receiver or conservator for Doral Bank. Doral Financial and Doral Bank are subject to the supervision and regulation of various banking regulators and have entered into the Written Agreement and the Consent Order with these regulators, and these regulators could take additional actions against Doral Financial and/or Doral Bank that would materially adversely affect our results of operations. As a regulated financial services firm, our good standing with our regulators is of fundamental importance to the continuation and growth of our businesses. Doral Financial is subject to supervision and regulation by the FRBNY and the Office of the Commissioner, and Doral Bank is subject to supervision and regulation by the FDIC, the Office of the Commissioner and the state banking regulatory authorities of the states in which it has operations. Federal banking regulators, in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties, have significant discretion and power to initiate enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. The enforcement powers available to federal banking regulators include, among others, the ability to assess civil monetary penalties, to issue cease and desist or removal orders, to require written agreements and to initiate injunctive actions. Doral Financial and Doral Bank have entered into the Written Agreement and the Consent Order with the FRBNY, the FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner. These banking regulators could take further actions with respect to Doral Financial or Doral Bank and, if any such further actions were taken, such actions could have a material adverse effect on us. Our ability to diversify our business operations in the United States is dependent upon approval of our operating plans by the FRBNY, the FDIC and/or the Office of the Commissioner. If we do not continue to receive the approval of the FRBNY, the FDIC and/or the Office of the Commissioner to develop our operations in the United States our business and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Because of the continued weak economic conditions in Puerto Rico and the fiscal condition of the Commonwealth, we are diversifying our business operations through the development of our banking operations in New York and Florida. Because Doral Financial is a party to the Written Agreement with the FRBNY and Doral Bank is a party to the Consent Order with the FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner, we may be required to seek approval to take some actions under our operating plans, including further development of our banking operations in New York and Florida. If the FRBNY, the FDIC and/or the Office of the Commissioner do not approve the continued development of our banking operations in New York and Florida, our business and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Doral Bank is required to obtain approval from the FDIC prior to accepting, renewing or rolling over any brokered deposits. If the FDIC does not allow Doral Bank to accept, renew or rollover any brokered deposits, Doral Bank may not be able to meet its liquidity needs or future obligations. Doral Bank’s liquidity relies in part upon brokered deposits. Under the Consent Order with the FDIC, Doral Bank must obtain a waiver from the FDIC prior to accepting, renewing or rolling over any brokered deposits. Although the FDIC has issued temporary approvals in the past permitting Doral Bank to renew and/or roll over certain amounts of maturing brokered deposits, and Doral Bank has received approval from the FDIC to issue specified amounts of brokered deposits through March 31, 2014, the FDIC could decide to not issue such approvals in the future, and even if issued, such approvals may not be for amounts of brokered deposits sufficient for Doral Bank to meet some of its funding needs. If the FDIC does not approve the acceptance, renewal or rolling over of brokered deposits, or limits Doral Bank’s ability in any material way, Doral Bank’s liquidity, operations and ability to meet its obligations will be materially adversely affected. 41 Table of Contents Doral Financial and Doral Bank require the prior approval of their respective regulators prior to implementing any plan to sell assets or businesses or undertake other transactions that could affect their respective regulatory orders. If the FRBNY, the FDIC and/or the Commissioner do not approve any such proposed transaction, we may be unable to successfully restructure our business, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. We are subject to a Written Agreement with the FRBNY and Doral Bank is subject to a Consent Order with the FDIC and the Commissioner that mandates each of us to comply with the terms of the regulatory orders. Our management is seeking to develop a strategic plan to respond to the continued weak economic conditions in Puerto Rico as well as our continued success in developing our business in the U.S.; however, we currently do not have the authority, without further regulatory consent, to engage in any transaction as part of a strategic plan. Both, we and Doral Bank will require the prior authorization of their respective regulatory authorities prior to implementing any strategic plan, such as a proposed sale of assets or businesses or a merger or other business combination involving us and/or Doral Bank. If we are unable to obtain such approval, we and/or Doral Bank will not have the authority to implement any proposed strategic transaction and, as a result, our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects may be materially adversely affected. Doral Financial and Doral Bank are subject to regulatory capital adequacy and other supervisory guidelines, and if we fail to meet those guidelines our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, Doral Financial and Doral Bank must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off balance sheet items, subject to quantitative judgments by regulators regarding components, risk weightings and other factors. Supervisory guidelines also address, among other things, asset quality and liquidity. If either Doral Financial or Doral Bank fail to meet these minimum capital adequacy requirements or any other supervisory and regulatory requirements (including those requirements set forth in the Consent Order and the Written Agreement), our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. A failure to meet regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, among other things, would further affect Doral Bank’s ability to accept or rollover brokered deposits and could result in additional supervisory actions by federal and/or Puerto Rico banking authorities. Doral Bank is highly dependent upon borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York to fund its lending activities. If borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York are limited in the future, Doral Bank’s liquidity, operations, ability to meet its obligations and earnings will be materially adversely affected. In the third quarter of 2013, the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York informed Doral Bank that due to the deterioration in its financial condition, all new borrowings granted by the FHLBNY would be for a maximum term of thirty days. The reduction in the duration of future borrowings from the FHLBNY to thirty days or less eliminates Doral Bank’s ability to use term borrowings from the FHLBNY to assist in managing interest rate risk, which may result in lower earnings as Doral Bank can no longer obtain long-term capital commitments at fixed interest rates to fix its net interest margins. Should the financial condition of Doral Bank deteriorate further, the FHLBNY may institute additional collateral qualifications or reduce the amount of borrowing per dollar of collateral pledged (i.e., “haircuts”). Additionally, the FHLBNY could discontinue further lending to Doral Bank altogether when existing borrowings mature. Should future FHLBNY borrowings be limited through additional “haircuts”, disqualification of collateral or complete withdrawal of the ability to receive new advances, Doral Bank’s liquidity, operations, ability to meet its obligations, and earnings will be materially adversely affected. Our decisions regarding credit risk and the allowance for loan and lease losses may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Making loans is an essential element of our business, and there is a risk that the loans will not be repaid. This default risk is affected by a number of factors, including: • duration of the loan; • credit risk of a particular borrower; 42 Table of Contents • changes in economic or industry conditions; and • in the case of a collateral loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of collateral. We are subject to risk of loss from loan defaults and foreclosures with respect to the loans we originate and purchase. We establish a provision for loan losses, which leads to reductions in our income from operations, in order to maintain our allowance for inherent loan losses at a level that our management deems to be appropriate based upon an assessment of the quality of our loan portfolio. Management may fail to accurately estimate the level of inherent loan losses or may have to increase our provisions for loan losses in the future as a result of new information regarding existing loans, future increases in non-performing loans, changes in economic and other conditions affecting borrowers or other reasons beyond our control. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional classified loans and loan charge-offs, based on judgments different from those of management. We may have to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses in the future. The level of the allowance reflects management’s estimates based upon various assumptions and judgments as to specific credit risks, evaluation of industry concentrations, loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates and judgments regarding current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be sufficient to cover losses in our loan portfolio and our expense relating to provision for credit losses could increase substantially. Any material increase in our provision for loan losses or any material loan losses in excess of our allowance for loan losses would have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. We have disclosed a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to our accounting for the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses that could if not adequately remediated adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows accurately. In connection with our fiscal 2013 assessment of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to our accounting for the allowance for loan and lease losses during the third fiscal quarter of 2013. For a discussion of our internal control over financial reporting and a description of the identified material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, see “Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting” under Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures.” A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. During the fourth quarter of 2013, management’s procedures and testing identified that we had not maintained effective controls to reasonably assure that the underlying data and mathematical models supporting the allowance for loan and lease losses estimate are adequately reviewed. This control deficiency resulted in the Company’s understatement of the allowance for loan and lease losses and the related provision for loan and lease losses by $7.2 million in the consolidated financial statements filed with the SEC on the Company’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2013, which although not material to the consolidated financial statements, led management to conclude that control deficiencies exist related to processes, procedures and controls surrounding financial reporting. During the fourth quarter of 2013, the Company completed the first phase of a remediation plan to address these control deficiencies which included increased model design, testing and documentation of control procedure. As of December 31, 2013, we have determined, however, that the material weakness continues to exist and requires further remediation in the form of process improvements and subsequent assessment. 43 Table of Contents Deteriorating credit quality has adversely impacted us and may continue to adversely impact us. Since 2006, when recessionary conditions commenced in Puerto Rico, we have experienced a downturn in the credit quality of our borrowers, as well as the assets they have pledged as collateral. Our credit quality has continued to be under pressure during 2013 as a result of continued recessionary conditions in Puerto Rico that have led to, among other things, higher unemployment levels, much lower absorption rates for new residential construction projects and further declines in property values. We expect that credit conditions and the performance of our loan portfolio in Puerto Rico may continue to deteriorate in the near future as a result of continued recessionary conditions and the effect of the downgrade of the Commonwealth’s credit ratings to non-investment grade by three of the principal credit rating agencies during February 2014. Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers and counterparties and the value of the assets securing our loans or underlying our investments. If the credit quality of the customer base materially decreases, if the risk profile of a market, industry or group of customers changes materially, our business, financial condition, allowance levels, asset impairments, liquidity, capital and results of operations could be adversely affected. Changes in collateral values of properties located in Puerto Rico may require increased reserves. Substantially all of our loans are located within the boundaries of the United States economy. Whether the collateral for a loan is located in Puerto Rico or the United States mainland, the performance of our loan portfolio and the collateral value backing the loan transactions are dependent upon the performance of and conditions within each specific real estate market. Puerto Rico has been in recessionary conditions since 2006. Sustained weak economic conditions that have affected Puerto Rico over the last several years have resulted in declines in collateral values. We measure the impairment of a loan based on the fair value less cost to sell of the collateral, if collateral dependent, which is generally obtained from appraisals. Updated appraisals are requested when we determine that loans are impaired and are updated annually thereafter for residential properties and between 12 and 18 months thereafter for commercial properties. In addition, appraisals are also obtained for certain residential mortgage loans on a spot basis based on specific characteristics such as delinquency levels, age of the appraisal and loan-to-value ratios. The appraised value of the collateral may decrease or we may not be able to recover collateral at its appraised value. A significant decline in collateral valuations for collateral dependent loans may require increases in our specific provision for loan losses and an increase in the general valuation allowance. Any such increase would have an adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. Interest rate shifts may reduce net interest income. Shifts in short-term interest rates may reduce net interest income, which is the principal component of our earnings. Net interest income is the difference between the amounts received by us on our interest-earning assets and the interest paid by us on our interest-bearing liabilities. When interest rates rise, the rate of interest we pay on our liabilities generally rises more quickly than the rate of interest that we receive on our interest-bearing assets, which may cause our profits to decrease. The impact on earnings is more adverse when the slope of the yield curve flattens, that is, when short-term interest rates increase more than long-term interest rates or when long-term interest rates decrease more than short-term interest rates. Increases in interest rates may reduce the value of our holdings of securities and demand for our mortgage and other loans. Fixed-rate securities acquired by us are generally subject to decreases in market value when interest rates rise, which may require recognition of a loss (e.g., the identification of other-than-temporary impairment on our investments portfolio), thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. Market-related reductions in value also influence our ability to finance these securities. Higher interest rates also increase the cost of mortgage and other loans to consumers and businesses and may reduce demand for such loans or the ability of borrowers to repay such loans, which may negatively impact our profits by reducing the amount of our loan origination income or increasing the default rate on such loans. 44 Table of Contents The hedging transactions that we enter into may not be effective in managing the exposure to interest rate risk. We use derivatives, to a limited extent, to manage part of our exposure to market risk caused by changes in interest rates. The derivative instruments that we may use also have their own risks, which include: (i) basis risk, which is the risk of loss associated with variations in the spread between the asset yield and funding and/or hedge cost; (ii) credit or default risk, which is the risk of insolvency or other inability of the counterparty to a particular transaction to perform its obligations; and (iii) legal risk, which is the risk that we are unable to enforce the terms of such instruments. All or any of these risks could expose us to losses. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, our risk management policies and procedures may be inadequate and operational risk could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. We may fail to identify and manage risks related to a variety of aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, operational risk, interest-rate risk, trading risk, fiduciary risk, legal and compliance risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. We have adopted various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risk, and we currently believe that our risk management policies and procedures are effective. Nonetheless, if our risk management controls, procedures, policies and systems, including those designed to protect our networks, systems, computers and data from attack, damage or unauthorized access, were to fail or be circumvented, we could incur losses or suffer reputational damage or find ourselves out of compliance with applicable regulatory mandates or expectations. Some of our methods for managing risks and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based upon historical models. As a result, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. This information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. We may also be subject to disruptions from external events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing and financial market settlement functions. In addition, our customers, vendors and counterparties could suffer from such events. Should these events affect us, or the customers, vendors or counterparties with which we conduct business, our consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected. When we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies related to operational losses, we may be unable to accurately estimate our potential exposure, and any reserves we establish to cover operational losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition for the periods in which we recognize the losses. A breach in the security of our systems could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and create significant financial and legal exposure for us. Our businesses are dependent on our ability and the ability of our third party service providers to process, record and monitor a large number of transactions. If the financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities fail to operate properly, become disabled, experience security breaches or have other significant shortcomings, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Although we and our third party service providers devote significant resources to maintain and upgrade our systems and processes that are designed to protect the security of computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets and the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information belonging to us and our customers, there is no assurance that our security systems and those of our third party service providers will provide absolute security. Financial services institutions and companies engaged in data processing have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber-attacks and other means. Despite our efforts and those of our third party service providers to ensure the integrity 45 Table of Contents of these systems, it is possible that we or our third party service providers may not be able to anticipate or to implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches of these types, especially because techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources. A successful breach of the security of our systems or those of our third party service providers could cause serious negative consequences to us, including significant disruption of our operations, misappropriation of our confidential information or the confidential information of our customers, or damage to our computers or operating systems, and could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to us or to our customers, loss in confidence in our security measures, customer dissatisfaction, litigation exposure, and harm to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on us. We could incur increased costs or reductions in revenue or suffer reputational damage in the event of misuse of information. Our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks regarding our customers and their accounts. To provide these products and services, we use information systems and infrastructure that we and third party service providers operate. As a financial institution, we also are subject to and examined for compliance with an array of data protection laws, regulations and guidance, as well as to our own internal privacy and information security policies and programs. Information security risks for financial institutions like us have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers and other external parties. Our technologies and systems may become the target of cyber-attacks or other attacks that could result in the misuse or destruction of our or our customers’ confidential, proprietary or other information or that could result in disruptions to the business operations of us or our customers or other third parties. Also, our customers, in order to access some of our products and services, may use personal computers, smart mobile phones, tablet PCs and other devices that are beyond our controls and security systems. Further, a breach or attack affecting one of our third-party service providers or partners could impact us through no fault of our own. In addition, because the methods and techniques employed by perpetrators of fraud and others to attack systems and applications change frequently and often are not fully recognized or understood until after they have been launched, we and our third-party service providers and partners may be unable to anticipate certain attack methods in order to implement effective preventative measures. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible security breach of our information systems, if unauthorized persons were somehow to get access to confidential or proprietary information in our possession or to our proprietary information, it could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation or a loss of confidence in the security of our systems that could materially adversely affect our business. Defective and repurchased loans may harm our business and financial condition. In connection with the sale and securitization of mortgage loans, we are generally required to make a variety of customary representations and warranties regarding us and the loans being sold or securitized. Our obligations with respect to these representations and warranties are generally outstanding for the life of the loan, and they relate to, among other things: • compliance with laws and regulations; • underwriting standards; • the accuracy of information in the loan documents and loan file; and • the characteristics and enforceability of the loan. A loan that does not comply with these representations and warranties may take longer to sell, may impact our ability to obtain third-party financing for the loan, and be unsalable or salable only at a significant discount. 46 Table of Contents If such a loan is sold before we detect a noncompliance, we may be obligated to repurchase the loan and bear any associated loss directly, or we may be obligated to indemnify the purchaser against any such loss, either of which could reduce our cash available for operations and liquidity. Our management believes that it has established controls to ensure that loans are originated in accordance with the secondary market’s requirements, but mistakes may be made, or certain employees may deliberately violate our lending policies. We seek to minimize repurchases and losses from defective loans by correcting flaws, if possible, and selling or re-selling such loans. Losses associated with defective loans may adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. We are exposed to credit risk from mortgage loans held pending sale and mortgage loans that have been sold subject to recourse arrangements. We are generally at risk for mortgage loan defaults from the time we fund a loan until the time the loan is sold or securitized into a mortgage-backed security. In the past, we retained, through recourse arrangements, part of the credit risk on sales of mortgage loans that did not qualify for GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC sale or exchange programs and consequently may suffer losses on these loans. We suffer losses on these loans when the proceeds from a foreclosure sale of the property underlying a defaulted mortgage loan are less than the outstanding principal balance of the loan and the costs of holding and disposing of the related property. We estimate the fair value of the retained recourse obligation or of any liability incurred at the time of sale, and include such obligation with the net proceeds from the sale, resulting in lower gain-on-sale recognition. We evaluate the fair value of our recourse obligation based on historical losses from foreclosure and disposition of mortgage loans adjusted for expectations of changes in portfolio behavior and market environment. We are subject to risks in servicing loans for others. Our profitability may also be adversely affected by mortgage loan delinquencies and defaults on mortgage loans that we service for third parties. Under many of our servicing contracts, we must advance all or part of the scheduled payments to the owner of an outstanding mortgage loan, even when mortgage loan payments are delinquent. In addition, in order to protect their liens on mortgaged properties, owners of mortgage loans usually require that we, as servicer, pay mortgage and hazard insurance and tax payments on schedule even if sufficient escrow funds are not available. We generally recover our advances from the mortgage owner or from liquidation proceeds when the mortgage loan is foreclosed. However, in the interim, we must absorb the cost of the funds we advance during the time the advance is outstanding. We must also bear the costs of attempting to collect on delinquent and defaulted mortgage loans. In addition, if a default is not cured, the mortgage loan will be canceled as part of the foreclosure proceedings and we will not receive any future servicing income with respect to that loan. As a result of our credit ratings, we may be subjected to increased collateral requirements and other measures that could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We have previously sold or securitized mortgage loans in transactions with FNMA and other counterparties subject to partial or full recourse. As of December 31, 2013, the maximum contractual exposure to us if we were required to purchase all loans sold subject to partial or full recourse was $383.3 million, $310.0 million of which consisted of exposure to FNMA. Our contractual agreements with FNMA authorize FNMA to require us to post additional collateral to secure our recourse obligations with FNMA, and FNMA has the contractual right to request collateral for the full amount of our recourse obligations when, as now, we do not maintain an investment grade rating. In January 2006, we agreed to post with FNMA $44.0 million in collateral to secure our recourse obligations. In addition, certain of our servicing agreements, such as those with FNMA, FHLMC, and GNMA, contain provisions triggered by changes in our financial condition or failure to maintain required credit ratings. We do not currently maintain the credit ratings required by GNMA and possibly other counterparties, which may result in increased collateral requirements and/or require us to engage a substitute fund custodian, or could result in termination of our servicing rights. Termination of our servicing rights, requirements to post additional collateral or the loss of custodian funds could reduce our liquidity and have an adverse impact on our operating results. 47 Table of Contents Our ability to sell loans and other mortgage products to government-sponsored entities could be impacted by changes in our financial condition or the historical performance of our mortgage products. Our ability to sell mortgage products to government-sponsored entities, such as FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA, depends, among other things, on our financial condition and the historical performance of our mortgage products. To protect our ability to continue to sell mortgage products to GNMA and other GSEs, we have and may in the future repurchase defaulted loans from such counterparties. During 2013 and 2012, we repurchased $90.5 million and $42.0 million, respectively, of defaulted FHA guaranteed loans from GNMA. Any such repurchases in the future may negatively impact our liquidity and operating results. Termination of our ability to sell mortgage products to the GSEs would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may fail to retain and attract key employees and management personnel. Our success has been and will continue to be influenced by our ability to retain and attract key employees and management personnel, including senior and middle management. Our ability to attract and retain key employees and management personnel may be adversely affected as a result of the workload and stress associated with our business transformation efforts, and related regulatory risks and uncertainties; and the consolidation of the banking industry where our competitors may have more resources to compete for available talent. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect the profitability of our operations. We face significant competition from other financial institutions, many of which have significantly greater assets, capital and other resources. As a result, many of our competitors have advantages in conducting certain businesses and providing certain services. This competitive environment could force us to increase the rates we offer on deposits or lower the rates we charge on loans and, consequently, could adversely affect the profitability of our operations. Damage to our reputation could damage our businesses. Maintaining a positive reputation for Doral Financial is critical to our ability to attract and maintain customers, investors and employees. Damage to our reputation can therefore cause significant harm to our business and prospects. Harm to our reputation can arise from numerous sources, including, among others, employee misconduct, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum standards of service and quality, compliance failures, unethical behavior, and the activities of customers and counterparties. Negative publicity regarding Doral Financial, whether or not true, may also result in harm to our prospects. We must respond to rapid technological changes, and these changes may be more difficult or expensive than anticipated. If competitors introduce new products and services embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing product and service offerings, technology and systems may become obsolete. Further, if we fail to adopt or develop new technologies or to adapt our products and services to emerging industry standards, we may lose current and future customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is changing rapidly and in order to remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products, services and technologies. These changes may be more difficult or expensive than we anticipate and adversely affect our results of operations. Our businesses may be adversely affected by litigation or regulatory actions. From time to time, our customers, or the government on their behalf, may make claims and take legal action relating to the performance of our fiduciary or contractual responsibilities. We may also face employment lawsuits or other legal claims. In any such claims or actions, demands for substantial monetary damages may be asserted against us resulting in financial liability or an adverse effect to our reputation among investors or to customer demand for our products and services. We may be unable to accurately estimate our exposure to 48 Table of Contents litigation risk when we record balance sheet reserves for probable loss contingencies. As a result, any reserves we establish to cover any settlements or judgments may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure, which may have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. In the ordinary course of our business, we are also subject to various regulatory, governmental and law enforcement inquiries, investigations and subpoenas. These may be directed generally to participants in the businesses in which we are involved or may be specifically directed at us. In regulatory enforcement matters, claims for disgorgement, the imposition of fines or penalties and the imposition of other remedial sanctions are possible. The resolution of legal actions or regulatory enforcement matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations for the period in which such actions or matters are resolved or a reserve is established. Doral Financial may be required to advance significant amounts to cover the reasonable legal and other expenses of its former officers and directors. Under Doral Financial’s by-laws, Doral Financial is obligated to pay in advance the reasonable expenses incurred by former officers and directors in defending civil or criminal actions or proceedings pending final disposition of such actions. Since 2005, Doral Financial advanced funds on behalf of various former officers and directors in connection with the grand jury proceeding and criminal proceeding. In a related matter, Doral Financial has also defended itself and certain officers in civil actions in New York and Puerto Rico courts including an action commenced by Mr. Mario S. Levis for alleged breach of Doral Financial’s obligation to advance expenses, including attorneys’ fees corresponding to his representation and defense of investigations conducted by federal agencies commencing in 2005 and the related criminal proceedings. Risks Related to the General Business Environment and our Industry Our credit quality may continue to be adversely affected by Puerto Rico’s recessionary economic conditions and Puerto Rico’s non-investment grade ratings. Because a majority of our business activities and credit exposure are still concentrated in Puerto Rico, our financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on economic conditions in Puerto Rico. The economy of Puerto Rico entered into a recession in the fourth quarter of the government’s fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. For fiscal years 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, Puerto Rico’s real gross national product decreased by 1.2%, 2.9%, 3.8%, 3.6% and 1.6%, respectively. According to the latest information and projections issued by the Puerto Rico Planning Board in November 2013, real gross national product for fiscal year 2012 increased by only 0.1%, real gross national product for fiscal year 2013 is projected to decrease by 0.3%, and real gross national product for fiscal year 2014 is projected to decrease by 0.8%. The long recession in Puerto Rico has resulted in, among other things, a reduction in lending activity and an increase in the rate of default in commercial loans, commercial real estate loans, construction loans, consumer loans and residential mortgages. We have also experienced significant losses on our Puerto Rico loan portfolio due to a higher level of loan defaults. The prolonged recessionary economic environment in Puerto Rico accelerated the devaluation of properties and increased portfolio delinquency when compared with previous periods. During February 2014, Moody’s, S&P and Fitch lowered the Commonwealth’s credit rating to “Ba2” (with a negative outlook), “BB+”(with a negative outlook) and “BB” (with a negative outlook), respectively, all of which are non-investment grade ratings. In general terms, the negative outlooks reflect continued uncertainty relating to the Commonwealth’s constrained access to the market, continued demands on liquidity and increased refinancing risk. These downgrades to non-investment grade ratings could lead to further deterioration of the fiscal situation and economic conditions of the Commonwealth. The continuation or further deterioration of the Puerto Rico economic slowdown would cause those adverse effects to continue or worsen, as delinquency rates may continue to increase in the short term, until sustainable growth of the Puerto Rico economy resumes. Also, potential reduction in consumer spending as a result of 49 Table of Contents continued recessionary conditions in Puerto Rico may also impact growth in our other interest and non-interest revenue sources. Additional economic weakness in Puerto Rico could further pressure residential property values, loan delinquencies, foreclosures and the cost of repossessing and disposing of real estate collateral. Our business concentration in Puerto Rico imposes risks. We conduct our operations in a geographically concentrated area, as our main market continues to be in Puerto Rico. This imposes risks from lack of diversification in the geographical portfolio. Our financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on the economic conditions of Puerto Rico, where adverse political developments, continued recessionary economic conditions, deteriorating fiscal condition and non-investment grade ratings of the Commonwealth, or natural disasters, among other things, could affect the volume of loan originations, increase the level of non-performing assets, increase the rate of foreclosure losses and reduce the value of our loans and loan servicing portfolio. As a result, the value of our collateral as well as our ability to obtain repayment of our loans and therefore our financial condition and operating results are all highly dependent upon Puerto Rico’s economic conditions. If economic conditions in Puerto Rico do not improve or worsen, our financial condition and results of operations would continue to be materially adversely affected. The imposition of additional taxes in Puerto Rico may further deteriorate the economy, adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations, and adversely impact the credit quality of our loan portfolios. On June 30, 2013, the Governor of Puerto Rico signed into law the Tax Burden Distribution and Adjustment Act (“Act 40”) as one of the laws approved to increase tax revenues in order to reduce the fiscal deficit of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. Act 40 includes significant amendments to Puerto Rico tax laws and is expected to increase certain taxes payable by financial institutions and institutional and individual clients of financial institutions. The imposition of these taxes could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. It could also further deteriorate the Puerto Rico economy and therefore adversely affect the disposable income of our institutional and individual borrowers causing increases in delinquencies and foreclosure rates in our loan portfolios. Difficult market conditions have already affected us and our industry and may continue to adversely affect us. Given that almost all of our business is in Puerto Rico and the United States and given the degree of interrelation between Puerto Rico’s economy and that of the United States, we are particularly exposed to downturns in the United States economy. Dramatic declines in the United States housing market from 2007 until 2010 and the continuing decline in the Puerto Rico housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial banks and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities then spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital from private and government entities, to merge with larger and stronger financial institutions and, in some cases, to fail. This market turmoil and tightening of credit led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally which, although turning around in the mainland United States, continues in Puerto Rico. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets adversely affected our industry and our business, financial condition and results of operations. We experienced increased levels of non-performing assets and OTTI charges on our non-agency mortgage-backed securities as a result of past market conditions. A continuation or worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. 50 Table of Contents • The processes and models we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure require difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation and which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the processes and models. • Regulatory agency views of market conditions and the effect of market conditions on our borrowers may differ from those of our management, and such variance in views, if any, may contribute to increases in charge-offs and loan loss provisions. • Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to engage in sales of mortgage loans to third parties (including mortgage loan securitization transactions with government sponsored entities) on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including deteriorating investor expectations. • Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. • We may be required to pay in the future significantly higher FDIC assessments to insure our deposits if our FDIC assessment ratings continue to deteriorate or if market conditions do not improve or worsen. • We may face higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or regulatory action that either (i) reduces the amount that our borrowers are required to pay us, or (ii) limits our ability to foreclose on properties or collateral or makes foreclosures less economically viable. If current levels of market disruption and volatility in Puerto Rico continue or worsen, our ability to access capital and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We have been and could continue to be negatively affected by adverse economic conditions. The United States and other countries recently faced a severe economic crisis, including a major recession. These adverse economic conditions were particularly severe and continue in Puerto Rico and have negatively affected, and are likely to continue to negatively affect for some time, our assets, including our loans and securities portfolios, capital levels, results of operations and financial condition. In response to the economic crisis, the United States and other governments established a variety of programs and policies designed to mitigate the effects of the crisis. These programs and policies have stabilized the severe financial crisis that commenced in the second half of 2008, but the extent to which these programs and policies will assist in an economic recovery or may lead to adverse consequences in our principal market of Puerto Rico, whether anticipated or unanticipated, is still unclear. In addition, economic uncertainty that could result from the downgrading of United States long-term debt, from the fiscal imbalances in federal, state and local municipal finances combined with the political difficulties in resolving these imbalances, and from the debt and other economic problems of several European countries, may directly or indirectly adversely impact economic conditions faced by us and our customers. Any increase in the severity or duration of adverse economic conditions, including a double-dip recession in the United States or a further delay in the economic recovery of Puerto Rico, would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected if we cannot maintain access to stable funding sources. The credit markets, although recovering, have experienced extreme volatility and disruption in recent years. At times during the past few years, the volatility and disruptions reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity of certain issuers, particularly for non-investment grade issuers like us. Our business requires continuous access to various funding sources. We need liquidity to, among other things, pay our operating expenses, pay interest on our debt, maintain our lending and investment activities and 51 Table of Contents replace certain maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we may be forced to curtail our operations. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit and our credit capacity. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially affected by future disruptions in the financial markets. We are generally able to fund our operations through deposits as well as through advances from the FHLB and other alternative sources such as repurchase agreements, loans and brokered deposits. We expect to have continued access to credit from the foregoing sources of funds. However, there can be no assurance that such financing sources will continue to be available or will be available on favorable terms. In a period of financial disruption, or if negative developments occur with respect to us, the availability and cost of funding sources could be adversely affected. Our efforts to monitor and manage liquidity risk may not be successful in dealing with dramatic or unanticipated changes in the global markets or other reductions in liquidity driven by us or market related events. In the event that such sources of funds are reduced or eliminated and we are not able to replace them on a cost-effective basis, we may be forced to curtail our loan origination and investment activities, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Brokered deposits are typically sold through an intermediary to retail investors. Our ability to continue to attract brokered deposits is subject to variability based on a number of factors, including volume and volatility in the global markets, our credit rating and the relative interest rates that we are prepared to pay for these liabilities. Brokered deposits are generally considered a less stable source of funding than core deposits obtained through retail bank branches. Investors in brokered deposits are generally more sensitive to interest rates and will generally move funds from one depository institution to another based on small differences in interest rates on deposits. An unforeseen disruption in the brokered deposits market, stemming from factors such as legal, regulatory or financial risks, could adversely affect our ability to fund a portion of our operations and/or meet obligations. In addition, Doral Bank must obtain a waiver from the FDIC prior to accepting, renewing or rolling over any brokered deposits under the Consent Order with the FDIC. During 2013 the FHLB informed Doral Bank that due to the deterioration in its financial condition all new borrowings granted by the FHLB would be for a maximum term of thirty days. Should the financial condition of Doral Bank deteriorate further, the FHLB may institute additional collateral qualifications or reduce the amount of borrowing per dollar of collateral pledged (i.e., “haircuts”), and the FHLB could discontinue further lending to Doral Bank altogether when existing borrowings mature. Should future FHLB borrowings be limited through additional “haircuts”, disqualification of collateral or complete withdrawal of the ability to receive new advances, Doral Bank’s liquidity, operations, ability to meet its obligations, and earnings would be materially adversely affected and therefore, our results of operations would be materially adversely affected. The soundness of other financial institutions could affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, investment companies and other institutional clients. In certain of these transactions, we are required to post collateral to secure our obligations to the counterparties. In the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding involving one of these counterparties, we may experience delays in recovering the assets posted as collateral or may incur a loss to the extent that the counterparty was holding collateral in excess of the obligation to such counterparty. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 52 Table of Contents Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, our earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve to implement these objectives are open market operations in US government securities, adjustments of the discount rate and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. Our income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies (in particular, the Federal Reserve). Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the prepayment speed of loans, the value of loans, investment securities and mortgage servicing assets, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits, and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding. The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The effects of such policies upon our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adverse. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will affect our business. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. Some of the provisions of the legislation have already become effective. Other provisions will have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates, and will be required to be implemented through regulatory action by various federal regulatory authorities. Because many of the provisions require future regulatory actions for their implementation, the ultimate impact of the legislation on the financial services industry and on our business, are not completely known at this time. The implementation of many of the provisions of the legislation will affect our business and is expected to add new regulatory risk and compliance burdens and costs on the financial services industry and us. The implementation of this legislation could result in loss of revenue, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities we might otherwise consider engaging in, impact the value of some of the assets we hold, require us to change certain of our business practices, impose additional costs on us, establish more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements, or otherwise adversely affect our business. Implementation of BASEL III could adversely affect our regulatory capital ratios. During July 2013 the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC adopted final rules to revise and replace the federal banking agencies current regulatory capital rules to align with the BASEL III capital standards and meet certain requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act. Certain requirements of the final rules establish more restrictive requirements for instruments to qualify as capital, higher risk-weightings for certain asset classes, capital buffers and higher minimum capital ratios. In general terms, the final rules, among other things, include implementation of a new common equity Tier 1 minimum capital requirement and apply limits on a banking organization’s capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments if the banking organization does not hold a specified amount of common equity Tier 1 capital in addition to the amount necessary to meet its minimum risk-based capital requirements. The final rules also establish more conservative standards for including an instrument in regulatory capital. These new capital standards have not become effective for Doral Financial or Doral Bank. The ultimate impact on Doral Financial and Doral Bank of these new capital standards cannot be fully determined at this time. Nonetheless, the requirement that Doral Financial and Doral Bank maintain higher capital ratios, with common equity as a predominant component, the requirement to maintain a capital buffer and the more restrictive requirements for certain instruments to qualify as capital, could adversely affect our capital ratios and our compliance with regulatory capital requirements, and therefore could adversely affect and in some cases materially adversely affect our capital position, business, financial condition and results of operations. 53 Table of Contents We operate within a highly regulated industry and our business and results are significantly affected by the regulations to which we are subject; changes in statutes and regulations could adversely affect us. We operate within a highly regulated environment. The regulations to which we are subject will continue to have a significant impact on our operations and the degree to which we can grow and be profitable. Certain regulators which supervise us have significant power in reviewing our operations and approving our business practices. These powers include the ability to place limitations or conditions on activities in which we engage or intend to engage. Particularly in recent years, our businesses have experienced increased regulation and regulatory scrutiny, often requiring additional resources. We are also subject to the requirements and limitations of the Consent Order and the Written Agreement. If we do not comply with governmental regulations and other supervisory requirements, we may become subject to fines, penalties, lawsuits or material restrictions on our businesses in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred, which may adversely affect our business operations. In addition, new proposals for legislation continue to be introduced in the United States Congress or the Puerto Rico Legislature that could further increase regulation of the financial services industry and impose restrictions on the operations and general ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. We cannot predict the substance or impact of any change in regulation, whether by regulators or as a result of legislation enacted by the United States Congress or by the Puerto Rico Legislature, or in the way such statutory or regulatory requirements are interpreted or enforced. Compliance with such current and potential regulation and scrutiny may significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business practices, require us to increase our regulatory capital and limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities in an efficient manner. Increases in the FDIC insurance assessment premiums or required reserves may have a significant impact on us. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured depository institutions up to certain limits. The FDIC charges insured depository institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”). Economic conditions in recent years have resulted in higher bank failures. In the event of a bank failure, the FDIC takes control of a failed bank and ensures payment of deposits up to insured limits (which were permanently increased to $250,000 by the Dodd-Frank Act) using the resources of the DIF. The FDIC is required by law to maintain adequate funding of the DIF, and the FDIC may increase premium assessments to maintain such funding. The Dodd-Frank Act required the FDIC to increase the DIF’s reserves against future losses, which led to increases in deposit insurance premiums. In October 2010, the FDIC addressed plans to bolster the DIF by increasing the required reserve ratio for the industry to 1.35 percent (ratio of reserves to insured deposits) by September 30, 2020, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. In December 2010, the FDIC approved a final rule raising its industry target ratio of reserves to insured deposits to 2 percent, 65 basis points above the statutory minimum, but the FDIC does not project that goal to be met until 2027. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC approved a final rule that amended the deposit insurance assessment regulations. The final rule implemented a provision in the Dodd-Frank Act that changes the assessment base for deposit insurance premiums from one based on domestic deposits to one based on average consolidated total assets minus average Tier 1 Capital. We are unable to control the amount of assessments that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, or if our risk rating deteriorates further for purposes of determining the level of our FDIC insurance assessments, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC insurance assessments than the recently increased levels. Any future increases in our FDIC insurance assessments may materially adversely affect our results of operations. 54 Table of Contents The consolidation of the Puerto Rico banking industry as a result of bank failures in 2010 may adversely affect us. In April 2010, the FDIC closed three Puerto Rico banks and sold some of their assets and liabilities to three other banks in Puerto Rico. In the future, there may be additional bank failures, mergers or acquisitions in the Puerto Rico market. Any business combinations could significantly alter industry conditions and competition within the Puerto Rico banking industry and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if we are unable to participate in such transactions while our competitors continue to increase the size and resources of their business. In addition, the strategies adopted by the FDIC and the three acquiring banks in connection with some of the residential, construction and commercial real estate loans acquired may adversely affect residential and commercial real estate values in Puerto Rico. This in turn may adversely affect the value of some of our residential, construction and commercial real estate loans, and our ability to sell or restructure some of our residential, construction and commercial real estate loans. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements. Our financial statements are subject to the application of US GAAP, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards and updates thereto issued by FASB. Market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to promulgate new requirements that further interpret or seek to revise accounting pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or transactions as well as to revise standards to expand disclosures. The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed by us in footnotes to our financial statements included in our filings with the SEC. An assessment of proposed standards and updates thereto is not provided as such proposals are still subject to change. It is possible that future accounting standards and updates thereto that we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks related to our common stock An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for, among other things, the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section, as updated from time to time in filings made by the Company with the SEC. Investment in our common stock is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, any investor that owns or acquires our common stock may lose some or all of the investor’s investment. Additional issuances of common stock or securities convertible into common stock may dilute existing holders of our common stock. We may determine that it is advisable, or we may encounter circumstances where we determine it is necessary, to issue additional shares of our common stock, securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our common stock, or common-equivalent securities to fund strategic initiatives or other business needs to fund the conversion of one class of securities into another class or to raise additional capital. Depending on our capital needs, we may make such a determination in the near future or in subsequent periods. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of any such future offering, as well as other sales of a large block of shares of our common stock or similar securities in the market thereafter, or the perception that such sales could occur. In addition, such additional equity issuances would reduce any earnings available to the holders of our common stock and the return thereon unless our earnings increase correspondingly. We cannot predict the timing 55 Table of Contents or size of future equity issuances, if any, or the effect that they may have on the market price of our common stock. The issuance of substantial amounts of equity, or the perception that such issuances may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Dividends on our common stock have been suspended; Doral Financial may not be able to pay dividends on its common stock in the future. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. On April 25, 2006, we announced that, as a prudent capital management decision designed to preserve and strengthen our capital position, our board of directors had suspended the quarterly dividend on our common stock. In addition, we will be unable to pay dividends on our common stock unless and until we resume payments of dividends on our preferred stock (including payment of all accrued but unpaid dividends on our cumulative preferred stock), which were suspended by our board of directors in March 2009. Our ability to pay dividends in the future is limited by various regulatory requirements and policies of bank regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over Doral Financial and such other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Under the Written Agreement, we are restricted from paying dividends on our capital stock without the prior written approval of the FRBNY and the Director of the Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation of the Federal Reserve. We are required to request permission for the payment of dividends on our common stock and preferred stock not less than 30 days prior to a proposed dividend declaration date. We may not receive approval for the payment of such dividends in the future or, even with such approval, our board of directors may not resume payment of dividends. The price of our common stock may be subject to fluctuations and volatility. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations because of factors specifically related to our businesses and general market conditions. Factors that could cause such fluctuations, many of which could be beyond our control, include the following: • changes or perceived changes in the condition, operations, results or prospects of our businesses and market assessments of these changes or perceived changes; • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; • changes in governmental regulations or proposals, or new governmental regulations or proposals, affecting us, including those relating to general market or economic conditions and those that may be specifically directed to us; • the continued decline, failure to stabilize or lack of improvement in general market and economic conditions in our principal markets, such as the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; • the departure of key personnel; • changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets; operating results that vary from expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; • operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us; • changes in financial reports by securities analysts; • developments related to investigations, proceedings, or litigation that involves us and developments relating to the Consent Order and the Written Agreement; and • the occurrence of major catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks. 56 Table of Contents All of our debt obligations and our preferred stock will have priority over our common stock with respect to payment in the event of a liquidation, dissolution or winding up. In any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Doral Financial, our common stock would rank below all debt claims against us and all of our outstanding shares of preferred stock. As a result, holders of our common stock will not be entitled to receive any payment or other distribution of assets upon our liquidation or dissolution until after our obligations to our debt holders and holders of preferred stock have been satisfied. If we are unable to fully satisfy the claims of our debtors and the liquidation preference of our preferred stock, no funds would be available to distribute to holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and certain banking law provisions contain provisions that could discourage an acquisition or change of control of Doral Financial. Certain provisions under Puerto Rico and federal banking laws and regulations, together with certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, may make it more difficult to effect a change in control of our company, to acquire us or to replace incumbent management. These provisions could potentially deprive our stockholders of opportunities to sell shares of our common stock at above-market prices. Our suspension of preferred stock dividends could result in the expansion of our board of directors. On March 20, 2009, our board of directors announced that it had suspended the declaration and payment of all dividends on all outstanding series of our convertible preferred stock and our noncumulative preferred stock. The suspension of dividends for our noncumulative preferred stock was effective and commenced with the dividends for the month of April 2009. The suspension of dividends for our convertible preferred stock was effective and commenced with the dividends for the quarter commencing in April 2009. Since we have not paid dividends in full on our noncumulative preferred stock for at least eighteen consecutive monthly periods, or paid dividends in full on our convertible preferred stock for consecutive dividend periods containing in the aggregate a number of days equivalent to at least six fiscal quarters, the holders of our preferred stock, all acting together as a single class, have the right to elect two additional members to our board of directors. We called a special meeting of our preferred stockholders to be held on August 3, 2011 to permit holders of our preferred stock to nominate and seek to have elected the two additional members to our board of directors. Due to the lack of a quorum, the Special Meeting was not able to be held. The holders of 10% of the total number of outstanding shares of our preferred stock, all acting together as a single class, are entitled to call a special meeting for the election of two additional members to our board of directors. Certain risks associated with the reverse stock split completed in 2013. On June 27, 2013 Doral Financial filed a Certificate of Amendment to its Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, with the Secretary of State of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico to effect a 1-for-20 reverse stock split of Doral Financial’s issued and outstanding common stock. In addition, the Certificate of Amendment correspondingly reduced the number of shares of our authorized common stock from 300,000,000 to 15,000,000. The amendment became effective at 4:00 pm Eastern time on June 28, 2013. Commencing on July 1, 2013, trading of the Company’s common stock continued on the New York Stock Exchange under a new CUSIP and on a reverse stock split-adjusted basis. The risks associated with the reverse stock split include, but are not limited to, the following: Our total market capitalization after the reverse stock split may be lower than before the reverse stock split There are numerous factors and contingencies that could affect the price of our common stock following implementation of the reverse stock split, including the status of the market for our common stock at the time, our results of operations in future periods, and general economic, market and industry conditions. Accordingly, the market price of our common stock may not be sustainable at the direct arithmetic result of the reverse stock split. If the market price of our common stock declines after the reverse stock split, our total market capitalization (the aggregate value of all of our outstanding common stock at the then existing market price) after the reverse stock split will be lower than before the reverse stock split. 57 Table of Contents The reverse stock split may result in reduced liquidity of our common stock Following the reverse stock split we will have fewer shares of common stock that are publicly traded. As a result, the trading liquidity of our common stock may decline. The reverse stock split may result in some shareholders owning “odd lots” that may be more difficult to sell or require greater transaction costs per share to sell The reverse stock split may result in some shareholders owning “odd lots” of less than one hundred shares of our common stock on a post-split basis. Odd lots may be more difficult to sell, or require greater transaction costs per share to sell, than shares in “round lots” of even multiples of one hundred shares. The reverse stock split may not generate additional investor interest While we believe that a higher stock price after the reverse stock split may help generate investor interest in our common stock, there can be no assurance that the reverse stock split will result in a per share price that will attract institutional investors or investment funds or that such share price will satisfy the investing guidelines of institutional investors or investment funds. As a result, the trading liquidity of our common stock may not necessarily improve after the reverse stock split. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 