Item 1A. Risk Factors. Some of the factors that could cause Doral Financial’s actual results for future periods to differ materially from those anticipated are discussed below. Risks Relating to the Restatement Process Doral Financial has restated its financial statements. Doral Financial may continue to suffer adverse effects from the restatement of its previously issued financial statements that were included in its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, as amended (the “2004 Form 10-K”). In the 2004 Form 10-K, Doral Financial restated its previously reported financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, 2002, and the unaudited selected quarterly financial information for each of the four quarters of 2004, 2003 and 2002. As a result of these matters, Doral Financial may become subject to fines, settlements, judgments or other penalties or damages in its ongoing SEC investigation or regulatory actions or civil litigation. Any of these matters may also contribute to further ratings downgrades, negative publicity and difficulties in attracting and retaining key clients, employees and management personnel. Doral Financial is subject to ongoing regulatory investigations by the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York, which could require it to pay substantial fines or penalties. On October 25, 2005, Doral Financial announced that the SEC was conducting a formal investigation into the April 19, 2005 announcement that the Company would restate its financial statements and the underlying issues addressed in that announcement. A formal investigation enables the SEC to issue subpoenas for witnesses and documents, including third parties outside the Company. As part of the formal investigation, the Company has received a subpoena from the SEC seeking the production of documents principally regarding the restatement and related financial reporting matters and the terms of certain transactions with local financial institutions. Doral Financial has also received a Grand Jury subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York regarding the production of certain documents, including financial statements and corporate, auditing and accounting records prepared during the period relating to the restatement of Doral Financial’s financial statements. Doral Financial cannot predict when these investigations will be completed or what the results of these investigations will be. The effects and results of these or other investigations may have a material adverse effect on Doral Financial’s business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Adverse developments related to such investigations, including any expansion of their scope, could negatively impact the Company and could divert efforts and attention of its management team from Doral Financial’s ordinary business operations. Doral Financial may be required to pay material fines, judgments or settlements or suffer other penalties, each of which could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. These investigations may adversely affect Doral Financial’s ability to obtain, and/or increase the cost of obtaining, directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and/or other types of insurance, which could have a material adverse effect on Doral Financial’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the findings of these investigations may affect the course of the civil litigation pending against Doral Financial, which are more fully described below. Significant legal proceedings could adversely affect Doral Financial’s results of operations. In addition to being subject to litigation in the ordinary course of business, Doral Financial is a party to several legal and regulatory proceedings relating to the restatement. See Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings in this Form 10-K. Doral Financial cannot predict at this time the outcome of these proceedings or estimate the potential costs related to the proceedings. It is possible that the Company may 30 Table of Contents be required to pay substantial judgments or settlements that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. In addition, the expenses incurred in connection with these proceedings (including substantial fees of lawyers and other professional advisors and potential obligations to indemnify officers and directors who may be parties to such actions) could have an adverse effect on the Company’s cash position. Doral Financial and its banking subsidiaries are subject to the supervision and regulation of various banking regulators and have entered into consent orders with these regulators. These regulators could take action against the Company or its banking subsidiaries. As a regulated financial services firm, Doral Financial’s good standing with its regulators is of fundamental importance to the continuation and growth of its businesses. Doral Financial is subject to supervision and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, Doral Bank — PR is subject to supervision and regulation by the FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner and Doral Bank — NY is subject to supervision and regulation by the OTS and the FDIC. Doral Financial is a bank holding company that qualifies as a financial holding company. As such, Doral Financial is permitted to engage in a broader spectrum of activities than those permitted to bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies. To continue to qualify as a financial holding company, each of Doral Financial’s banking subsidiaries must continue to qualify as “well capitalized” and “well managed.” As of December 31, 2005, Doral Financial and its banking subsidiaries continued to satisfy all applicable capital guidelines. This, however, does not prevent banking regulators from taking adverse actions against Doral Financial or its banking subsidiaries as a result of the restatement or related internal control matters. If Doral Financial were not to continue to qualify as a financial holding company, it might be required to discontinue certain securities and insurance activities and may be prohibited from engaging in new activities without prior regulatory approval. Doral Financial is responding to inquiries and requests for documents from the Federal Reserve and the other banking regulators of the Company and its subsidiaries regarding the issues arising from the restatement and related internal-control matters. Federal banking regulators, in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties, have significant discretion and power to initiate enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. The enforcement powers available to federal banking regulators include, among other things, the ability to assess civil monetary penalties, to issue cease-and-desist or removal orders, to require written agreements and to initiate injunctive actions. As discussed in Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings, Doral Financial and Doral Bank — PR entered into consent orders with the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Office of the Commissioner, which, among other things, prohibit the Company’s banking subsidiaries from paying dividends to the parent company, and prohibit Doral Financial from paying dividends to its common and preferred shareholders, without regulatory approval. Doral Financial cannot predict whether any of these banking regulators will take any further action with respect to Doral Financial or its banking subsidiaries, or, if any such further action were taken, whether such action would have a material adverse effect on Doral Financial. Recent downgrades in Doral Financial’s credit ratings will increase Doral Financial’s borrowing costs and may lessen Doral Financial’s ability to compete in certain business. Following Doral Financial’s announcement of the need to restate its financial statements, the major rating agencies downgraded Doral Financial’s ratings in a series of actions. S&P lowered the long-term senior debt and counterparty ratings of Doral Financial from ‘BBB-’ to ‘B+’ and placed the ratings on Credit Watch Negative. Moody’s lowered Doral Financial’s long term senior debt rating from ‘Baa2’ to ‘B1’ and placed the ratings on outlook of credit negative. Fitch lowered Doral Financial’s long-term senior debt rating from ‘BBB+’ to ‘BB-’ and placed the ratings on Rating Watch Negative. These or further downgrades may adversely affect Doral Financial’s ability to access capital and will likely result in more stringent covenants and higher interest rates under the terms of any future indebtedness. Doral Financial relies on external sources of financing to fund its operations. The cost and availability of unsecured financing are generally related to the issuer’s debt ratings. The recent downgrades and any future downgrades in Doral Financial’s debt ratings will increase Doral Financial’s borrowing costs and 31 Table of Contents margin requirements and therefore adversely affect Doral Financial’s liquidity and results of operations and the Company’s ability to refinance existing debt. These debt and financial strength ratings are current opinions of the rating agencies. As such, they may be changed, suspended or withdrawn at any time by the rating agencies as a result of changes in, or unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances. Ratings may also be withdrawn at the request of Doral Financial’s management. These ratings actions have affected and will continue to affect Doral Financial’s business and results of operations in a number of ways. Doral Financial’s failure to comply with certain reporting covenants under its public debt indentures may result in the acceleration of its public debt securities and other debt arrangements. Under its senior debt indenture, Doral Financial is required to timely file its periodic reports with the trustee. As a result of the restatement, Doral Financial has not yet filed its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2006 and June 30, 2006. The failure to file the reports becomes a default with respect to any series under the indenture that would allow the required percentage of holders of a series of debt securities to deliver a notice of default to the trustee or the Company. After receipt of any notice of default, the Company would have a 90-day grace period to cure the default before it became an event of default under the senior debt indenture. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Doral Financial has not received a notice of default with respect to its reports for the first two quarters of 2006 and expects to file such reports before any failure to file could become an event of default. If Doral Financial, however, failed to cure a filing default within those 90 days after receipt of that notice of default, the trustee or such holders will have the right to accelerate the maturity of the relevant series of debt securities. This would trigger the cross-acceleration provisions under the other series of debt securities issued under its senior indenture. If such an acceleration were to occur, Doral Financial may be unable to meet its payment obligations. There can be no assurance that under such circumstances Doral Financial would be able to refinance its debt, whether through the capital markets or otherwise, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Management has identified several material weaknesses in Doral Financial’s internal control over financial reporting. Doral Financial’s management has concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was not effective at December 31, 2005 as a result of several material weaknesses included in this report on Form 10-K. As a result, this report includes an adverse opinion from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, on Doral Financial’s internal control over financial reporting. Each material weakness results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The Company’s ability to file its periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner may also be adversely affected by the existence of ineffective controls. A discussion of the material weaknesses that have been identified by management can be found in Item 9A of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. While remediation of these weaknesses has begun, Doral Financial has not yet fully implemented its plan for remedying the identified material weaknesses, and there can be no assurance as to when the remediation plan will be fully implemented or that it will be effective. Remediation work continues through and may extend beyond 2006. Doral Financial does not expect to be able to access the public capital markets until all of its filings with the SEC are up to date. Doral Financial anticipates that, once it is current in its filings with the SEC, it, depending on market conditions, may be able to access the Rule 144A market. However, Doral Financial will be unable to access the U.S. public securities markets until it has filed and the SEC has declared effective a new registration statement or post-effective amendments to existing registration statements under the Securities 32 Table of Contents Act of 1933. Depending on the SEC’s review of these filings, this process may take several months or longer. Until Doral Financial is current in its SEC filings, a holder of restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 of the Securities Act will be unable to sell such securities in reliance on Rule 144, unless such holder has held such securities for at least two years and is not an “affiliate” of Doral Financial for purposes of the U.S. federal securities laws. There is a lack of public disclosure concerning Doral Financial. Doral Financial has not yet filed with the SEC its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2006. The Company expects to file this report as soon as practicable after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Until the Doral Financial files this quarterly report, there will be limited public information available concerning the Company’s more recent results of operations and financial condition. The absence of more recent financial information may have a number of adverse effects on Doral Financial and its securities, including a decrease in the market price of the Company’s securities and an increase in the volatility of such market price. Doral Financial may fail to attract and retain key employees and management personnel. Doral Financial’s success has been and will continue to be influenced by its ability to attract and retain key employees and management personnel, including senior and middle management. Doral Financial’s ability to attract and retain key employees and management personnel may be adversely affected as a result of the restatement and related risks and uncertainties. Risks Relating to Doral Financial’s Business Fluctuations in interest rates may negatively impact Doral Financial’s business. Interest rate risk is the primary market risk affecting Doral Financial. Changes in interest rates can adversely affect the following areas of its business: • the number of mortgage loans it originates and purchases; • the net interest income it earns on loans and securities; • its gain on the sale of loans; • the value of its securities holdings; and • the value of its servicing asset and IOs. Significant increases in interest rates reduce demand for mortgage loan originations and refinancing. Higher interest rates increase the cost of mortgage loans to consumers and therefore reduce consumer demand for mortgage loans. Reduced demand for mortgage loans negatively impacts Doral Financial’s profits because it results in lower loan originations by Doral Financial and lower mortgage origination income. Demand for refinance loans is generally more sensitive to increases in interest rates. Significant changes in interest rates reduce net interest income. Doral Financial is liability sensitive (on average the liabilities mature sooner than the assets) and thus significant increases in short-term interest rates reduce net interest income, which is the most important component of Doral Financial’s earnings. Net interest income is the difference between the interest received by Doral Financial on its interest-earning assets and the interest paid on its borrowings. Most of Doral Financial’s interest-earning assets, like its mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, are long-term assets with fixed interest rates. In contrast, most of Doral Financial’s borrowings are short-term. When interest rates rise, Doral Financial must pay more in interest on its borrowings while the interest earned on its assets does not rise as quickly. This causes profits to decrease. This adverse impact on earnings is higher when the slope of the yield curve flattens, that is, when short-term interest rates increase more than long-term rates. 33 Table of Contents Significant increases in interest rates may reduce the value of Doral Financial mortgage loans, securities’ holdings and floating rate IOs. Significant increases in interest rates may reduce the value of Doral Financial’s financial assets and may have an adverse impact on its earnings and financial condition. Doral Financial owns a substantial portfolio of mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities and other debt securities with fixed interest rates. The market value of an obligation with a fixed interest rate generally decreases when prevailing interest rates rise. In addition, most of Doral Financial’s IOs are related to mortgage pools in which the pass-through rates payable to investors is a floating rate based on a spread over the three-month LIBOR. Accordingly, significant unexpected increases in short-term interest rates reduce the spread received on Doral Financial’s IOs and adversely affect its value. For mortgage loan sales contracts that are not subject to interest rate caps, to the extent that the interest rate payable to investors on the mortgage loans underlying the floating rate IOs exceeds the weighted-average coupon on such mortgage loans, the change in fair value of the Company’s IOs may exceed the carrying value of the IOs, creating a liability instead of an asset. Doral Financial must recognize decreases in the value of the IOs against its current period earnings. Significant reductions in interest rates may adversely affect the value of Doral Financial’s servicing assets. Significant decreases in long-term interest rates lead to increases in the prepayment of mortgages by borrowers, which may reduce the value of Doral Financial’s servicing assets. Doral Financial’s servicing assets represent the estimated present value of the normal servicing fees (net of related servicing costs) Doral Financial expects to receive on the mortgages it services over their expected term. If prepayments increase above expected levels, the value of Doral Financial’s servicing assets will decrease because the amount of future fees expected to be received by Doral Financial from the servicing assets will decrease. Doral Financial must identify and satisfy the requirements of new loan sale channels for its non-conforming mortgage loan production. Prior to the announcement that it would have to restate its financial statements, Doral Financial historically sold a significant portion of its non-conforming loan production to local financial institutions at relatively high gain on sale margins through the creation of floating rate IOs. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the restatement process, the Company has not been able to sell its non-conforming loan production in the local market and, in the fourth quarter of 2005, began selling non-conforming loans to U.S. financial institutions, on a non-recourse basis, in transactions that did not involve the creation of IOs and resulted in a significantly lower gain on sale margin. While Doral Financial is seeking to broaden sales channels for its non-conforming mortgage loan production, it anticipates that these new sales channels will continue to result in considerably lower gain on sales margins compared to those obtained in past sales in the local Puerto Rico market, thereby adversely affecting its profitability. In addition, these new channels require that the Company adopt and maintain more stringent underwriting and pricing criteria, which has affected and may continue to affect the Company’s share of Puerto Rico’s loan production. Doral Financial is exposed to credit risks from mortgage loans held pending sale and mortgage loans that have been sold subject to recourse arrangements. Doral Financial is generally at risk for mortgage loan defaults from the time it funds a loan until the time the loan is sold or securitized into a mortgage-backed security. Doral Financial also often retains, through recourse arrangements, part of the credit risk on sales of mortgage loans that do not qualify for GNMA, FNMA or FHLMC sale or exchange programs and consequently may suffer losses on these loans. Doral Financial suffers losses on these loans when the proceeds from a foreclosure sale of the property underlying a defaulted mortgage loan are less than the outstanding principal balance of the loan and the costs of holding and disposing of the related property. Doral Financial is subject to default risk in connection with the loans it originates for its own portfolio. Doral Financial is subject to the risk of loss from loan defaults and foreclosures with respect to the loans originated for its own portfolio, including those loans originated by its banking subsidiaries for investment. Doral Financial establishes provisions for loan and lease losses, which are charged to 34 Table of Contents operations, in order to maintain its allowance for loans and lease losses at a level which management deems to be appropriate based upon management’s assessment of prior loss experience, the volume and type of lending being conducted, industry standards, past due loans, general economic conditions in its market and other factors related to the collectibility of the loan portfolio. Although Doral Financial’s management utilizes its best judgment in providing for loan losses, there can be no assurance that management has accurately estimated the level of probable loan losses or that Doral Financial will not have to increase its provisions for loan and lease losses in the future as a result of future increases in non-performing loans or for other reasons beyond its control. Any such increases in Doral Financial’s provisions for loan and lease losses could have a material adverse impact on Doral Financial’s future financial condition and results of operations. Increases in Doral Financial’s originations of construction and commercial loans have increased Doral Financial’s credit risks. Doral Financial’s increase in originations of construction loans and mortgage loans secured by income producing residential buildings and commercial properties through its banking subsidiaries has increased the credit risks to which Doral Financial is exposed. These types of loans involve greater credit risks than residential mortgage loans because they are larger in size, concentrate more risk in a single borrower and are generally more sensitive to economic conditions. The properties securing these loans are also harder to dispose of in foreclosure. Doral Financial is exposed to greater risk because its business is concentrated in Puerto Rico. Doral Financial’s business activities and credit exposure are concentrated in Puerto Rico. Consequently, its financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on economic conditions in Puerto Rico. Adverse political or economic developments, decreases in housing values or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, could result in a downturn in loan originations, an increase in the level of nonperforming assets, an increase in the rate of foreclosure loss on mortgage loans and a reduction in the value of Doral Financial’s loans and loan servicing portfolio. These factors could materially and adversely affect Doral Financial’s condition and results of operations. During 2006, a number of key economic indicators suggest that the Puerto Rican economy is suffering a slowdown, as a result of, among other things, the persistent high levels of oil prices, the upward trend in short-term interest rates, the depreciation of the dollar and the deceleration of public investment due to the Commonwealth’s current fiscal situation. In particular, the increase in short-term interest rates and the reduction in public investment are expected to have an adverse effect in construction activity, which has been a key contributor to economic growth in recent years. Some of these factors are also adversely affecting housing affordability. Doral Financial is subject to risks in servicing loans for others. Doral Financial’s profitability may also be adversely affected by mortgage loan delinquencies and defaults on mortgage loans that it services for third parties. Under many of its servicing contracts, Doral Financial must advance all or part of the scheduled payments to the owner of an outstanding mortgage loan, even when mortgage loan payments are delinquent. In addition, in order to protect their liens on mortgaged properties, owners of mortgage loans usually require that Doral Financial, as servicer, pay mortgage and hazard insurance and tax payments on schedule even if sufficient escrow funds are not available. Doral Financial generally recovers its advances from the mortgage owner or from liquidation proceeds when the mortgage loan is foreclosed. However, in the interim, Doral Financial must absorb the cost of the funds it advances during the time the advance is outstanding. Doral Financial must also bear the increased costs of attempting to collect on delinquent and defaulted mortgage loans. In addition, if a default is not cured, the mortgage loan will be canceled as part of the foreclosure proceedings and Doral Financial will not receive any future servicing income with respect to that loan. 35 Table of Contents Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect the profitability of Doral Financial’s operations. Doral Financial faces significant competition from other financial institutions, many of which have significantly greater assets, capital and other resources. As a result, many of Doral Financial’s competitors have advantages in conducting certain businesses and providing certain services. This competitive environment could force Doral Financial to increase the rates it offers on deposits or lower the rates it charges on loans and, consequently, could adversely affect the profitability of Doral Financial’s operations. Changes in statutes and regulations could adversely affect Doral Financial. As a financial institution, Doral Financial is subject to extensive federal and local governmental supervision and regulation. Any change in regulation, whether by applicable regulators or as a result of legislation enacted by the United States Congress or by the applicable local legislatures, could have a substantial impact on Doral Financial’s operations and profitability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 