ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Our industry has historically been cyclical and experienced periodic downturns. Our business depends on capital spending by electronics, semiconductor, solar cell and nuclear fuel manufacturers, which in turn depends on current and anticipated market demand for printed circuit boards, integrated circuits and solar panels and the products that use them as well as the need for nuclear fuel for power generation. We continue to experience a significant downturn in the solar industry. Capital equipment demand by the solar industry has been heavily impacted as a result of the worldwide over capacity of solar manufacturing driven by the following: meaningful reduction in governmental subsidies worldwide, and significant capacity additions in China and anti dumping legislation. Significant reductions in material and solar-cell costs are likely to have a positive impact in the long term on the demand for solar panels. The electronics and semiconductor industries have historically been cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns that have had a material adverse effect on the demand for equipment that we manufacture and market. We have made substantial investments in our organization to develop new products for the alternative energy market. Sales of our products to the alternative energy generation markets are subject to substantial risks. Solar Energy. The solar energy sector is primarily dependent upon continuation of governmental subsidies which have been scaled back. A further decline in these subsidies would reduce our ability to grow our business in this market segment due to reduced capital spending by the manufacturers of solar panels. The solar industry is currently facing overcapacity in its production capacity. This overcapacity has a meaningful negative impact on demand for capital equipment supplied to this industry. Nuclear Energy. The market for nuclear fuel pellets used in power generation is dependent upon further growth in nuclear power production. Consequently, without growth in the production of nuclear power, our opportunities to grow in this area will be limited. In addition, we may need export licenses to supply this type of equipment to certain countries. Failure to maintain such licenses or obtain new required licenses may impact our ability to expand our revenue from this market. Our strategy of developing products for the solar market has yet to achieve consistent positive cash flows, and we are relying on a combination of cash on hand and cash flow from sales of our products to the non-solar market to fund our operations and our investment in the solar market strategy. Since 2005, we have been pursuing a strategy of developing and selling thermal products for the solar market. Although this strategy produced meaningful sales in the solar market in 2010 and 2011, the significant decline in the solar market in 2012 has meant that we have not achieved the results we had hoped for. Although we continue to believe that the solar market presents an attractive opportunity for our products, in the near term we are funding our investments and operations in the solar market from cash flows from sales of our products to the non-solar market and our cash on hand. If the solar market does not improve, or if our products do not gain the acceptance we have planned, our cash resources will not allow us to continue making investments in the solar market and we will need to take action to restructure the company. Such actions, which could include exiting the solar business, selling assets or workforce reductions, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and result of operations and on the price of our stock. If we are unable to increase sales and reduce costs, our profitability and liquidity may be affected negatively. We had an operating loss of $10.4 million in 2012 compared to operating loss of $1.6 million in 2011. We attribute a large portion of the decrease in operating income in 2012 to decreases in sales and lower gross profits caused primarily by an increase in our inventory obsolescence reserve due to slow demand for solar equipment, the under-absorption of costs in our facilities and bad debt reserves. We may not experience growth in our alternative energy business in 2013, which will negatively impact our profitability and liquidity. 9 Table of Contents Our future success will depend on our ability to effectively develop and market our products against those of our competitors. The industry in which we do business is highly competitive. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and customer support capabilities and offer more extensive product offerings. If customers prefer products offered by our competitors, we will have difficulty maintaining or increasing our revenue. Our principal competitors for solder reflow systems are Vitronics-Soltec, Heller, Furakawa, ERSA, and Rehm. Our principal competitors for advanced semiconductor packaging are Vitronics-Soltec and Heller. Our systems for the alternative energy markets and other applications compete primarily against products offered by Centrotherm, Amtech, Factory 48, Despatch, SierraTherm, Smit and Harper. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their current products and to introduce new products with improved performance capabilities. Our failure to introduce new products in a timely manner, or the introduction by our competitors of products with perceived or actual advantages, could result in reduced sales of, or lower margins on, our products. In future years, we expect to face increased competition based on price, particularly from companies in Asia. If we are unable to reduce the costs of our products or introduce new lower cost products, we may lose sales to these competitors. A significant amount of our cash is in China and may not be brought back to the United States without tax consequences, which reduces our flexibility in deploying our liquidity. We do not accrue incremental U.S. taxes on our revenues from China as these earnings are considered to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States. While we have no plans to do so, events may occur in the future that could effectively force us to change our intent not to repatriate our foreign earnings. If we change our intent and repatriate such earnings, we will have to accrue the applicable amount of taxes associated with such earnings and pay taxes at a substantially higher rate than our effective income tax rate in 2012. These increased taxes could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and therefore reduce the flexibility we have to deploy our cash. Sales made by our international operations are subject to the economic, political, legal and business environments of the countries in which we do business, and our failure to operate successfully or adapt to changes in these environments could cause our international sales and operations to be limited or disrupted. Our international sales accounted for 84.9% of our consolidated revenue for 2012. We expect to continue to generate a significant percentage of our revenue outside the United States for the foreseeable future. In addition, we have direct investments in a number of subsidiaries outside of the U.S., primarily in Asia and Europe. Our international operations could be limited or disrupted, and the value of our direct investments may be diminished, by any of the following: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • the imposition of governmental controls; • import and export license requirements; • political instability; • difficulties enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights; • terrorist activities and armed conflict; • restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities and trade restrictions; • changes in tax laws and tariffs; • costs and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and • longer customer payment cycles. 10 Table of Contents Additionally, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage to foreign companies that are not subject to similar regulations. We conduct only a small portion of our sales in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We recognize foreign currency gains or losses arising from our operations in the period in which we incur those gains or losses. As a result, currency fluctuations among the U.S. dollar and the other currencies in which we do business have caused foreign currency transaction gains and losses in the past and will likely do so in the future. Because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates, we may suffer foreign currency transaction losses in the future due to the effect of exchange rate fluctuations. Over the past few years, a majority of our revenue has been generated from sales in the Asia Pacific region. Our operations are particularly vulnerable to instability in this region and competition from organizations based in this region. During 2012, 66.5% of our revenue was generated from sales in the Asia Pacific region. Political or economic instability in any of the major Asia Pacific economies may adversely impact the demand for capital equipment, including equipment of the type we manufacture and market. In addition, we face competition from a number of suppliers based in the Asia Pacific region that have certain advantages over U.S. suppliers, including us. These advantages include, among other things, lower operating and regulatory costs, proximity to customers, favorable tariffs and affiliation with significantly larger organizations. In addition, changes in the amount or price of electronics or solar cells produced in the Asia Pacific region could negatively impact spending by our customers. If we fail to maintain positive relationships with key personnel, we may be unable to successfully grow our business. Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of our key personnel, who are not bound by employment agreements. Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, manufacturing, technical, engineering, marketing, sales and support personnel. Competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with technical skills, is intense, and we may fail to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or by our inability to attract and retain skilled employees. The income tax rate on our consolidated income before taxes is subject to variables beyond our control. Our net income and cash flow can be adversely affected by innumerable conditions affecting income taxes which are outside of our control. To name but a few of the potential uncontrollable circumstances that could affect the consolidated tax rate: • We sell and operate globally, with manufacturing in both the United States and China. Disagreements could occur on the jurisdiction of income and taxation among different country governmental tax authorities. Potential areas of disputes could include transfer pricing values, inter-company cross charges and inter-company balances. • We are subject to a China withholding tax on certain non-tangible charges made under our transfer pricing agreements. The interpretation of what charges are subject to the tax and when the liability for the tax occurs has varied and could change in the future. • In the United States, new tax disclosure regulations, unfavorable interpretations and unforeseen enforcements by the government tax authorities of various provisions of the federal and state tax codes, could have an unfavorable impact on the amount and timing of our tax provision and cash flow. 11 Table of Contents Failure of critical suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of parts in a timely and cost-effective manner would adversely impact our operations. Although we use numerous vendors to supply components for the manufacture of our products, not all are qualified suppliers for all of our parts. Some key parts may only be available from a single supplier. Accordingly, we may experience problems in obtaining adequate and reliable quantities of various components. In addition, suppliers may cease manufacturing certain components that are difficult to replace without significant reengineering of our products. Our results of operations will be materially adversely impacted if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of components in a timely and cost effective manner. The occurrence of natural disasters in the Asia Pacific region may adversely impact our operations and sales. We have an expanding engineering and manufacturing facility in China, and the majority of our sales are made to destinations in the Asia Pacific region. This region is known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes and floods, which at times have disrupted the local economies. A significant earthquake or other crisis could materially affect our operating results. We are not insured for most losses and business interruptions of this kind, and we do not have redundant, multiple site capacity in the event of a natural disaster. In the event of such a disaster, our business would suffer. Provisions in our organizational documents could prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to replace our current management and could make acquisitions more difficult. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. Our certificate of incorporation provides that our stockholders may not take action by written consent. This provision may have the effect of preventing or hindering attempts by our stockholders to replace our current management. Furthermore, Delaware law prohibits a corporation from engaging in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the corporation’s board of directors approves the transaction. Our board of directors may use this provision to prevent changes in our management. Also, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. Our officers and directors may be able to block proposals for a change in control. Paul J. van der Wansem, our chairman and chief executive officer, beneficially owns approximately 20.1% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2012. Due to this concentration of ownership, Mr. van der Wansem may be able to prevail on all matters requiring a stockholder vote, including: • the election of directors; • the amendment of our organizational documents; or • the approval of a merger, sale of assets, or other major corporate transaction. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 