Risk Factors", that may cause our or our industry's actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, we do not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our financial statements are stated in United States dollars, rounded to the nearest thousand, and are prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Item 1 Business (a) Business Development George Risk Industries, Inc. (GRI or the company) was incorporated in 1967 in Colorado. The company is presently engaged in the design, manufacture, and sale of computer keyboards, push button switches, burglar alarm components and systems, pool alarms, thermostats, EZ Duct wire covers and water sensors. Products, Market, and Distribution The company designs, manufactures, and sells computer keyboards, push-button switches, burglar alarm components and systems, pool alarms, and water sensors. Our security burglar alarm products comprise approximately 88 percent of net revenues and are sold through distributors and private board customers. The security segment has approximately 3,000 customers. One of the distributors accounts for approximately 41 percent of the company's sales of these products. Loss of this distributor would be significant to the company. However, this customer has purchased from the company for many years and is expected to continue. Also, the company has obtained a written agreement with our biggest customer. This agreement was signed in February 2011 and initiated by the customer. The contents of the agreement include product terms, purchasing, payment terms, term and termination, product marketing, representations and warranties, product support, mutual confidentiality, indemnification and insurance, and general provisions. Page 3 The keyboard segment has approximately 800 customers. Keyboard products are sold to original equipment manufacturers to their specifications and to distributors of off-the-shelf keyboards of proprietary design. Competition The company has intense competition in the keyboard and burglar alarm lines. The burglar alarm segment has approximately ten major competitors. The company competes well based on price, product design, quality, and prompt delivery. The competitors in the keyboard segment are larger companies with automated production facilities. GRI has emphasized small custom order sales that many of its competitors decline or discourage. Research and Development The company performs research and development for its customers when needed and requested. Costs in connection with such product development have been borne by the customers. Costs associated with the development of new products are expensed as incurred. Employees GRI has approximately 150 employees. 