ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves significant risks. You should carefully consider the risk factors described below before deciding whether to invest in our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. You should also carefully read and consider all of the information we have included, or incorporated by reference, in this report on Form 10-K before you decide to invest in our securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business. RECENT EVENTS IN THE U.S. GULF OF MEXICO MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. On April 20, 2010, an explosion and fire at the Macondo well, a deepwater U.S. Gulf of Mexico offshore drilling location, resulted in 11 deaths, multiple personal injuries and significant property damage and pollution. As a result of this incident, hydrocarbons flowed from the well resulting in significant pollution and contamination. The U.S. Department of Interior issued a memorandum imposing a temporary moratorium on deepwater drilling on the outer continental shelf, which was lifted in October 2010. 10 At this time, we cannot predict what, if any, impact this incident may have on the regulation of offshore oil and gas exploration and development activity, the cost or availability of insurance coverage to cover the risks of such operations, the technical requirements or certifications of rigs or what actions may be taken by our customers, governmental agencies, or other industry participants in response to the incident. Currently, we are performing a comprehensive review of all operating policies and procedures, the technical specifications and certifications of key equipment components and the training certification of all relevant personnel; however, we believe all of our rigs satisfy current technical requirements and certifications, if any, required to operate in the jurisdictions where they currently operate, but can give no ass urance that in the future they will satisfy new technical requirements or certifications, if any, or that the costs to satisfy such technical requirements or certifications, if any, would not materially affect our financial condition and operating results. Changes in laws or regulations regarding offshore oil and gas exploration and development activities, the cost or availability of insurance, and decisions by customers, governmental agencies, or other industry participants could reduce demand for our services or increase our costs of operations, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition and operating results, but we cannot reasonably or reliably estimate that such changes will occur, when they will occur, or if they will impact us. WE RELY ON THE OIL AND NATURAL GAS INDUSTRY, AND VOLATILE OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRICES IMPACT DEMAND FOR OUR SERVICES. Demand for our services depends on activity in offshore oil and natural gas exploration, development and production. The level of exploration, development and production activity is affected by factors such as: § prevailing oil and natural gas prices; § expectations about future prices; § the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and natural gas and the availability of financing for such costs; § the opportunities and cost of exploring for and developing oil and natural gas reserves onshore; § the sale and expiration dates of available offshore leases; § worldwide demand for petroleum products; § current availability of oil and natural gas resources; § the rate of discovery and rate of depletion of oil and natural gas reserves in offshore areas; § local and international political and economic conditions; § technological advances; § ability of oil and natural gas companies to generate or otherwise obtain funds for drilling investments; § the ability of The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to set and maintain production levels and pricing; § political or other disruptions that limit exploration, development and production activities; § the level of production by non-OPEC countries; and § laws and governmental regulations that restrict exploration and development of oil and natural gas in various jurisdictions. 11 During recent years, the level of offshore exploration, development and production activity and the price for oil and natural gas has been volatile. Such volatility is likely to continue in the future. A decline in the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or prolonged low oil or natural gas prices in the future would likely result in reduced exploration and development of offshore areas and a decline in the demand for our services. Even during periods of high prices for oil and natural gas, companies exploring for oil and gas may cancel or curtail programs, or reduce their levels of capital expenditures for exploration and production for a variety of reasons. Any such decrease in activity is likely to reduce our dayrates and our utilization rates and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. RIG CONVERSIONS, UPGRADES OR NEWBUILDS MAY BE SUBJECT TO DELAYS AND COST OVERRUNS. From time to time we may undertake to increase our fleet capacity through conversions or upgrades to rigs or through new construction. These projects are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project resulting from numerous factors, including the following: § shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; § unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; § unanticipated cost increases; § weather interferences; § difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or in meeting permit conditions; § design and engineering problems; § shipyard failures; and § risks involved in the construction of drilling units without firm contracts. Project delays may affect our ability to meet contractual commitments as well as the commencement of operations of our drilling units following delivery. The Atwood Osprey, scheduled for delivery during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, has a contract with Chevron Australia Pty. Ltd. which could be canceled by our customer if the rig has not commenced operations by January 31, 2012. OPERATING HAZARDS INCREASE OUR RISK OF LIABILITY; WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO FULLY INSURE AGAINST THESE RISKS. Our operations are subject to various operating hazards and risks, including: § catastrophic marine disaster; § adverse sea and weather conditions; § mechanical failure; § navigation errors; § collision; § oil and hazardous substance spills, containment and clean up; § labor shortages and strikes; § damage to and loss of drilling rigs and production facilities; and § war, sabotage, terrorism, and piracy. 12 These risks present a threat to the safety of personnel and to our rigs, cargo, equipment under tow and other property, as well as the environment. Our operations and those of others could be suspended as a result of these hazards whether the fault is ours or that of a third party. In certain circumstances, governmental authorities may suspend drilling operations as a result of these hazards, and our customers may cancel or terminate their contracts. Third parties may have significant claims against us for damages due to personal injury, death, property damage, pollution and loss of business if such event were to occur in our operations. We maintain insurance coverage against the casualty and liability risks listed above. We also have business interruption coverage for interruptions in excess of 45 days upon the occurrence of certain events. We believe our insurance is adequate, and we have never experienced a loss in excess of rig casualty policy limits. However, we may not be able to renew or maintain our existing insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or at all. Additionally, there is no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future claims that may arise. THE INTENSE PRICE COMPETITION AND VOLATILITY OF OUR INDUSTRY, WHICH IS MARKED BY PERIODS OF LOW DEMAND, EXCESS RIG AVAILABILITY AND LOW DAYRATES, COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR REVENUES, PROFITABILITY AND CASH FLOWS. The contract drilling business is highly competitive with numerous industry participants. The industry has experienced consolidation in past years and may experience additional consolidation. Mergers among oil and natural gas exploration and production companies have reduced the number of available customers. Drilling contracts are, for the most part, awarded on a competitive bid basis. Price competition is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job, although rig availability and the quality and technical capability of service and equipment are also factors. We compete with a number of offshore drilling contractors which vary by job requirements and location, many of which are substantially larger than we are and which possess appreciably greater financial and other resources and assets than we do. The industry in which we operate historically has been volatile, marked by periods of low demand, excess rig supply and low dayrates, followed by periods of high demand, low rig availability and increasing dayrates. Periods of excess rig supply intensify the competition in the industry and often result in rigs being idled. Several markets in which we operate are currently oversupplied. Based upon the recent Macondo incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, additional rigs may be relocated to markets in which we operate, which could result in or exacerbate excess rig supply and lower day rates in those markets. Lower utilization and dayrates in one or more of the regions in which we operate would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates could also result in the recognition of impairment charges on certain of our drilling rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable. We may be required to idle additional rigs or to enter into lower-rate contracts in response to market conditions in the future. WE RELY HEAVILY ON A SMALL NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS AND THE LOSS OF A SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMER COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. Our contract drilling business is subject to the usual risks associated with having a limited number of customers for our services. Kosmos Energy Ghana Inc., Sarawak Shell Bhd., and Chevron Australia Pty. Ltd. provided 14%, 13% and 13%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues in fiscal year 2010. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if any of our major customers terminate their contracts with us, fail to renew our existing contracts, refuse to award new contracts to us or experience difficulties in obtaining financing to fund their drilling programs. 13 WE MAY SUFFER LOSSES IF OUR CUSTOMERS TERMINATE OR SEEK TO RENEGOTIATE THEIR CONTRACTS. Certain of our contracts with customers may be cancelable upon specified notice at the option of the customer. However, in such cases, these contracts would require the customer to pay a specified early termination payment upon cancellation, but such payments may not fully compensate us for the loss of the contract. Contracts customarily provide for either automatic termination or termination at the option of the customer in the event of total loss of the drilling rig or if drilling operations are suspended for extended periods of time by reason of excessive rig downtime for repairs, or other specified conditions, including force majeure. Early termination of a contract may result in a rig being idle for an extended period of time. Our revenues may be adversely affected by customers' early term ination of contracts, especially if we are unable to recontract the affected rig within a short period of time. During depressed market conditions, a customer may no longer need a rig that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable rig at a lower daily rate. As a result, customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing drilling contracts or avoid their obligations under those contracts. The renegotiation of a number of our drilling contracts could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. WE COULD INCUR DIFFICULTY IN FUNDING OUR CURRENT OR FUTURE RIG CONSTRUCTION, RIG ACQUISITION OR RIG UPGRADE PROGRAMS OR FUTURE DRILLING OPERATIONS IF WE ARE UNABLE TO OBTAIN A SUFFICIENT AMOUNT OF FINANCING OR IF ONE OR MORE MEMBERS OF OUR BANK GROUP SHOULD FAIL. Historically, we have utilized bank group financing to fund our rig construction, rig acquisition and rig upgrade programs and, if needed, a portion of drilling operations. The inability to obtain a sufficient amount of financing or the inability of one or more of the bank group members to provide committed funding could adversely affect our ability to complete rig construction, rig acquisition, rig upgrade programs or drilling operations. To date, we have been able to obtain adequate bank group financing to fund all of our commitments with such financing or from cash flows. WE ARE SUBJECT TO OPERATING RISKS SUCH AS BLOWOUTS AND WELL FIRES THAT COULD RESULT IN PERSONAL INJURY OR DEATH, PROPERTY DAMAGE OR LOSS AND ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE. Our drilling operations are subject to many hazards that could increase the likelihood of accidents. Accidents can result in: § costly delays or cancellations of drilling operations; § serious damage to, or destruction of, equipment; § personal injury or death; § significant impairment of producing wells or underground geological formations; or § major environmental damage. Our offshore drilling operations are also subject to marine hazards, either at offshore sites or while drilling equipment is under tow, such as vessel capsizings, collisions or groundings. In addition, raising and lowering jack-up drilling rigs and offshore drilling platforms whose three legs independently penetrate the ocean floor, flooding semisubmersible ballast tanks to help place the unit over the well site and drilling into high-pressure formations are complex, hazardous activities, and we can encounter problems. 14 We have had accidents in the past due to some of the hazards described above. Because of the ongoing hazards associated with our operations: § we may experience accidents; § our insurance coverage may prove inadequate to cover our losses; § our insurance deductibles may increase; or § our insurance premiums may increase to the point where maintaining our current level of coverage is prohibitively expensive or we may be unable to obtain insurance at all. Any future accidents could yield future operating losses and have a significant adverse impact on our business. OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS WILL BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF WE ARE UNABLE TO SECURE CONTRACTS FOR OUR DRILLING RIGS ON ECONOMICALLY FAVORABLE TERMS. The drilling markets in which we compete frequently experience significant fluctuations in the demand for drilling services, as measured by the level of exploration and development expenditures, and the supply of capable drilling equipment. In response to fluctuating market conditions, we can, as we have done in the past, relocate drilling rigs from one geographic area to another, but only when such moves are economically justified or we can idle rigs temporarily to save operating expenses and reduce rig supply. If demand for our rigs declines, rig utilization and dayrates are generally adversely affected, which in turn, would adversely affect our revenues. FAILURE TO OBTAIN AND RETAIN KEY PERSONNEL COULD IMPEDE OUR OPERATIONS. We depend to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and other key management personnel. There is no assurance that these individuals will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other personnel could adversely affect our operations. GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS REDUCE OUR BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES AND INCREASE OUR COSTS. We must comply with extensive government regulation in the form of international conventions, federal, state and local laws and regulations in jurisdictions where our vessels operate and are registered. These conventions, laws and regulations govern oil spills and matters of environmental protection, worker health and safety, and the manning, construction and operation of vessels, and vessel and port security. We believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable environmental, health and safety and vessel and port security laws and regulations as currently in effect. We are not a party to any pending governmental litigation or similar proceeding, and we are not aware of any threatened governmental litigation or proceeding which, if adversely determined, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or re sults of operations. However, the risks of incurring substantial compliance costs, liabilities and penalties for non-compliance are inherent in our industry. Compliance with environmental, health and safety and vessel and port security laws increases our costs of doing business. Additionally, environmental, health and safety and vessel and port security laws change frequently, and based upon the recent Macondo incident, we expect increased governmental and industry regulations and scrutiny, but we are unable to determine the impact to our compliance costs at this time. Therefore, we are unable to predict the future costs or other future impact of environmental, health and safety, and vessel and port security laws on our operations. There is no assurance that we can avoid significant costs, liabilities and penalties imposed as a result of governmental regulation in the future. 15 OUR RELIANCE ON FOREIGN OPERATIONS EXPOSES US TO ADDITIONAL RISKS NOT GENERALLY ASSOCIATED WITH DOMESTIC OPERATIONS, WHICH COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR OPERATIONS OR FINANCIAL RESULTS. We derive substantially all of our revenues from foreign sources. We, therefore, face risks inherent in conducting business internationally, such as: § legal and governmental regulatory requirements; § difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; § language and cultural differences; § potential vessel seizure or nationalization of assets; § import-export quotas or other trade barriers; § renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts; § difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; § foreign and domestic monetary policies; § political and economic instability; § terrorist acts, piracy, war and civil disturbances; § assaults on property or personnel; § travel limitations or operational problems caused by public health or security threats; § imposition of currency exchange controls; § potentially adverse tax consequences, including those due to changes in laws or interpretation of existing laws; or § currency exchange rate fluctuations. In the past, these conditions or events have not materially affected our operations. However, we cannot predict whether any such conditions or events might develop in the future. Also, we organized our subsidiary structure and our operations, in part, based on certain assumptions about various foreign and domestic tax laws, currency exchange requirements, and capital repatriation laws. While we believe our assumptions are correct, there can be no assurance that taxing or other authorities will reach the same conclusion. If our assumptions are incorrect, or if the relevant countries change or modify such laws or the current interpretation of such laws, we may suffer adverse tax and financial consequences, including the reduction of cash flow available to meet required debt service and other obli gations. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our business, operating results and financial condition. WE MAY SUFFER LOSSES AS A RESULT OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS AND FOREIGN CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS. A significant portion of the contract revenues of our foreign operations are paid in U.S. Dollars; however, some payments are made in foreign currencies. As a result, we are exposed to currency fluctuations and exchange rate risks as a result of our foreign operations. To minimize the financial impact of these risks when we are paid in foreign currency, we attempt to match the currency of operating costs with the currency of contract revenue. However, any increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar in relation to the value of applicable foreign currencies could adversely affect our operating revenues when translated into U.S. Dollars. To date, currency fluctuations have not had a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 16 WE ARE SUBJECT TO WAR, SABOTAGE, TERRORISM AND PIRACY, WHICH COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. It is unclear what impact the current United States military campaigns in Afghanistan and Iraq or possible future campaigns will have on the energy industry in general, or us in particular, in the future. Uncertainty surrounding retaliatory military strikes or a sustained military campaign may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including changes in the insurance markets, disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including pipelines, production facilities, refineries, electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. War or risk of war may also have an adverse effect on the economy. We maintain insurance coverage against casualty risks and have renewed our primary insurance program through June 30, 2011. We will evaluate the need to maintain this coverage as it applies to our drilling fleet in the future. We believe our insurance is adequate, and we have never experienced a loss in excess of policy limits. Current policy limits in place for the period July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011 range from a low of $35 million for the Richmond to a high of $275 million for the Atwood Hunter and the Atwood Eagle. When delivered in 2011, the Atwood Osprey will have a poli cy limit of approximately $625 million. There is no assurance that our insurance coverage will be available or affordable and, if available, whether it will be adequate to cover future claims that may arise. Instability in the financial markets as a result of war, sabotage, terrorism or piracy could also affect our ability to raise capital and could also adversely affect the oil, gas and power industries and restrict their future growth. THE SUBSTANTIAL EQUITY INTEREST OWNED BY CERTAIN SHAREHOLDERS MAY LIMIT THE ABILITY OF OTHER SHAREHOLDERS TO INFLUENCE THE OUTCOME OF DIRECTOR ELECTIONS AND OTHER MATTERS REQUIRING SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL. As of November 22, 2010, Helmerich & Payne International Drilling Co. owns of record and beneficially 8,000,000 shares, or approximately 12% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. One of our directors, Hans Helmerich, is an executive officer of Helmerich & Payne, Inc. (“H&P”) the parent company of Helmerich & Payne International Drilling Co. The beneficial ownership of our common stock and membership of an officer of H&P on our board may enable H&P to exercise some influence over the election of directors and other corporate matters requiring shareholder or board of directors' approval. FUTURE SALES OF OUR COMMON STOCK BY HELMERICH & PAYNE INTERNATIONAL DRILLING CO. OR ANY OTHER LARGE SHAREHOLDER COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR MARKET PRICE. Helmerich & Payne International Drilling Co. has advised us that, consistent with its pursuit of a strategy of focusing on its core drilling business, it intends to evaluate its entire investment portfolio, which includes shares of our common stock, and its cash requirements on a continuous basis and that it may seek to dispose of all or a portion of the shares of our common stock owned by it when and as necessary, from time to time, to fund its corporate needs. Until the sale of all of the shares of common stock owned by Helmerich & Payne International Drilling Co. or any other large shareholder are sold, we will or may have a large number of shares of common stock outstanding and available for resale beginning at various points in the future. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in t he public market, or the possibility that these sales may occur, could also make it more difficult for us to sell new issue common stock or other equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. 17 ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS IN OUR AMENDED AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF FORMATION, SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED BYLAWS AND RIGHTS PLAN COULD MAKE IT DIFFICULT FOR HOLDERS OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO RECEIVE A PREMIUM FOR THEIR SHARES UPON A CHANGE OF CONTROL. Holders of the common stock of acquisition targets often receive a premium for their shares upon a change of control. Texas law and the following provisions, among others, of our certificate of formation, second amended and restated bylaws and rights plan, all as amended from time to time, could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control and could prevent holders of our common stock from receiving such a premium: § We are subject to a provision of Texas corporate law that prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any shareholder for three years from the date that person became an affiliated shareholder by beneficially owning 20% or more of our outstanding common stock, unless specified conditions are met. § Special meetings of shareholders may not be called by anyone other than our chairman of the board of directors, president, or the holders of at least one-tenth of all shares issued, outstanding, and entitled to vote. § Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 500,000 shares of "blank-check" preferred stock and to determine the voting rights and other privileges of these shares without any vote or action by our shareholders. § We have issued “poison pill” rights to purchase Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock under our rights plan, whereby the ownership of our shares by a potential acquirer can be significantly diluted by the sale at a significant discount of additional shares of our common stock to all other shareholders, which could discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals. CLIMATE CHANGE, CLIMATE CHANGE REGULATIONS AND GREENHOUSE EFFECTS MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR OPERATIONS AND MARKETS. There is a concern that emissions of greenhouse gases (“GHG”) alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that affect the global climate. Climate change, including the impact of global warming, may create physical and financial risk. Physical risks from climate change include an increase in sea level and changes in weather conditions. Given the maritime nature of our business, we do not believe that physical climate change is likely to have a material adverse effect on us. Financial risks relating to climate change are likely to arise from increasing legislation and regulation, as compliance with any new rules could be difficult and costly. United States federal legislation has been proposed in Congress to reduce GHG emissions. While little progress has been made on these proposals, federal legislation limiting GHG emissions may be imposed in the United States. Foreign jurisdictions are addressing climate changes by legislation or regulation. If such legislation is enacted, increased energy, environmental and other costs and capital expenditures could be necessary to comply with the limitations. Unless and until legislation is enacted and its terms are known, we cannot reasonably or reliably estimate its impact on our financial condition, operating performance or ability to compete. Adverse impacts upon the oil and gas industry relating to climate change may also affect us as demand for our services depends on the level of activity in offshore oil and natural gas exploration, development and production. Although we do not expect that demand for oil and gas will lessen dramatically over the short term, in the long term global warming may reduce the demand for oil and gas or increased regulation of GHG may create greater incentives for use of alternative energy sources. Any long term material adverse effect on the oil and gas industry may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results, but we cannot reasonably or reliably estimate if it will occur, when it will occur or that it will impact us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 18 