ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks and uncertainties may affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as an investment in our common stock. Our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, which is significantly impacted by the volatility in oil and natural gas prices. Our business depends on the conditions of the offshore oil and natural gas industry. Demand for our services depends on oil and natural gas industry exploration and production activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices. Oil and natural gas prices, and market expectations regarding potential changes to these prices, significantly affect oil and natural gas industry activity. Higher oil and natural gas prices do not necessarily translate into increased activity because demand for our services is typically driven by our customers’ expectations of future commodity prices. Commodity prices have historically been volatile. Oil and natural gas prices are impacted by many factors beyond our control, including: • the demand for oil and natural gas; • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; • the worldwide economy; • expectations about future prices; • domestic and international tax policies; • political and military conflicts in oil producing regions or other geographical areas or acts of terrorism in the U.S. or elsewhere; • technological advances; • the development and exploitation of alternative fuels; • local and international political, economic and weather conditions; • the ability of The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) to set and maintain production levels and pricing; • the level of production by OPEC and non-OPEC countries; and • environmental and other laws and governmental regulations regarding exploration and development of oil and natural gas reserves. 9 During recent years, the level of offshore exploration, development and production activity and the price for oil and natural gas has been volatile. Such volatility is likely to continue in the future. A decline in the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or prolonged low oil or natural gas prices in the future would likely result in reduced exploration and development of offshore areas and a decline in the demand for our services. Even during periods of high prices for oil and natural gas, companies exploring for oil and gas may cancel or curtail programs, or reduce their levels of capital expenditures for exploration and production for a variety of reasons. These factors could cause our revenues and margins to decline, reduce day rates and utilization of our rigs and limit our future growth prospects and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our industry is subject to intense price competition and volatility. The contract drilling business is highly competitive with numerous industry participants. Drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Price competition is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job, although rig availability, the quality and technical capability of service and equipment and safety record are also factors. We compete with a number of offshore drilling contractors, many of which are substantially larger than we are and which possess appreciably greater financial and other resources and assets than we do. The industry in which we operate historically has been volatile, marked by periods of low demand, excess rig supply and low day rates, followed by periods of high demand, low rig availability and increasing day rates. Periods of excess rig supply intensify the competition in the industry and often result in rigs being idled. We may be required to idle additional rigs or to enter into lower-rate contracts in response to market conditions in the future. Presently, there are numerous recently constructed ultra-deepwater vessels and high-specification jack-ups that have entered the market and more are under contract for construction. Many of these units do not have drilling contracts in place. The entry into service of these new units has increased and will continue to increase supply and could curtail a strengthening, or trigger a reduction, in day rates and utilization as rigs are absorbed into the active fleet. Any further increase in construction of new units may increase the negative impact on day rates and utilization. In addition, rigs may be relocated to markets in which we operate, which could result in or exacerbate excess rig supply which may lower day rates in those markets. Lower utilization and day rates in one or more of the regions in which we operate would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Prolonged periods of low utilization and day rates could also result in the recognition of impairment charges on certain of our drilling rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable. Our business relies heavily on a limited number of drillings units and a limited number of customers and the loss of a significant customer could have an adverse impact on our business. Our customer base includes major and independent oil and gas companies as well as government-owned oil companies. The contract drilling business is subject to the usual risks associated with having a limited number of customers for our services. Such risks are heightened by our limited number of drilling units. Consolidation among oil and natural gas exploration and production companies has reduced the number of available customers. In fiscal year 2011, three customers each accounted for over 10% of our operating revenues: Chevron Australia, 31%; Sarawak Shell Bhd., 22%; and Kosmos Energy Ghana Inc., 21%. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if any of our major customers terminate their contracts with us, fail to renew our existing contracts, refuse to award new contracts to us or experience difficulties in obtaining financing to fund their drilling programs. High capital expenditures will be necessary to keep pace with the bifurcation of the drilling fleet. The market for our services is characterized by continual and rapid technological developments that have resulted in, and will likely continue to result in, substantial improvements in the functionality and performance of rigs and equipment. Our customers are increasingly demanding the services of newer, higher specification drilling rigs. This results in a bifurcation of the drilling fleet for both the jack-up and floater rig classes and is evidenced by the higher specification drilling rigs generally operating at higher overall utilization levels and day rates than the lower specification or standard drilling rigs. A significant number of lower specification rigs are being either warm or cold-stacked. As a result of this bifurcation, high capital expenditures will be required to maintain and improve existing rigs and equipment and purchase and construct newer, higher specification drilling rigs to meet the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. If we are not successful in acquiring new rigs and equipment or upgrading our existing rigs and equipment on a timely and cost-effective manner, we could lose business and profits. In addition, current competitors or new market entrants may develop new technologies, services or standards that could render some of our services or equipment obsolete, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 10 Rig upgrade, repair and construction projects are subject to risks, including failure to secure drilling contracts, delays and cost overruns. As of November 21, 2011, we had new build projects consisting of one ultra-deepwater drillship, one ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rig and three high-specification jack-up rigs under construction and have entered into a contract for the construction of an additional ultra-deepwater drillship. Four of our five new builds currently under construction and our recently announced new build drillship do not have long-term drilling contracts in place. We may also commence the construction of additional rigs for our fleet from time to time without first obtaining drilling contracts covering any such rig. Our failure to secure drilling contracts for rigs under construction, including our remaining uncontracted new build construction projects, prior to deployment could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Since 2009, we have invested or committed to invest over $3.3 billion in the expansion of our fleet, including ultra-deepwater and jack-up rigs. Depending on available opportunities, we may construct additional rigs for our fleet in the future. In addition, we make significant upgrade, refurbishment and repair expenditures on our fleet from time to time. Some of these expenditures are unplanned. These projects are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project resulting from numerous factors, including the following: • shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; • unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; • unanticipated increases in the cost of equipment, labor and raw materials, particularly steel; • weather interferences; • difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or in meeting permit conditions; • design and engineering problems; • client acceptance delays; • political, social and economic instability, war and civil disturbances; • delays in customs clearance of critical parts or equipment; • financial or other difficulties or failures at shipyards and suppliers; • disputes with shipyards and suppliers; and • work stoppages and other labor disputes. Delays in the delivery of rigs being constructed or undergoing upgrade, refurbishment or repair may result in delay in contract commencement, resulting in a loss of revenue to us, and may cause our customers to seek to terminate or shorten the term of the contract under applicable late delivery clauses, if any. In the event of termination of one of these contracts, we may not be able to secure a replacement contract on as favorable terms, if at all. The estimated capital expenditures for rig upgrades, refurbishments and construction projects could materially exceed our planned capital expenditures. Moreover, our rigs undergoing upgrade, refurbishment and repair may not earn a day rate during the period they are out of service. Our business may experience reduced profitability if our customers terminate or seek to renegotiate our drilling contracts. Currently, our contracts with customers are day rate contracts, in which we charge a fixed amount per day regardless of the number of days needed to drill the well. During depressed market conditions, a customer may no longer need a rig that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable rig at a lower day rate. Customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing drilling contracts or avoid their obligations under those contracts. In addition, certain of our contracts may be cancelled upon specified notice at the option of the customer upon payment of an early termination payment. Contracts also customarily provide for either automatic termination or termination at the option of the customer in 11 the event of total loss of the drilling rig, if a rig is not delivered to the customer, if a rig does not pass acceptance testing within the period specified in the contract, if drilling operations are suspended for extended periods of time by reason of excessive rig downtime for repairs, or other specified conditions, including force majeure or failure to meet minimum performance criteria. Early termination of a contract may result in a rig being idle for an extended period of time. Not all of our contracts require the customer to fully compensate us for the loss of the contract. Our revenues may be adversely affected by customers’ early termination of contracts, especially if we are unable to re-contract the affected rig within a short period of time. The termination or renegotiation of a number of our drilling contracts could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our business will be adversely affected if we are unable to secure contracts on economically favorable terms. The drilling markets in which we compete frequently experience significant fluctuations in the demand for drilling services, as measured by the level of exploration and development expenditures, and the supply of capable drilling equipment. We have a number of contracts that will expire in 2012. Our ability to renew these contracts or obtain new contracts and the terms of any such contracts will depend on market conditions. We may be unable to renew our expiring contracts or obtain new contracts for the rigs under contracts that have expired or been terminated, and the day rates under any new contracts may be substantially below the existing day rates, which could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. We can, as we have done in the past, relocate drilling rigs from one geographic area to another, but only when such moves are economically justified, or we can idle rigs temporarily to save operating expenses and reduce rig supply. If demand for our rigs declines, rig utilization and day rates are generally adversely affected, which in turn, would adversely affect our revenues. Our current backlog of contract drilling revenue may not be ultimately realized. As of September 30, 2011, our contract drilling backlog was approximately $1.5 billion for future revenues under firm commitments. We may not be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond our control, and our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate our contracts for various reasons, including those described above. In addition, some of our customers could experience liquidity issues or could otherwise be unable or unwilling to perform under the contract, which could ultimately lead a customer to go into bankruptcy or to otherwise encourage a customer to seek to repudiate, cancel or renegotiate a contract. Our inability or the inability of our customers to perform under our or their contractual obligations may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our customers may be unable or unwilling to indemnify us. Consistent with standard industry practice, we typically obtain contractual indemnification from our customers whereby they agree to protect and indemnify us for liabilities resulting from various hazards associated with the drilling industry. We can provide no assurance, however, that our customers will be willing or financially able to meet these indemnification obligations. Also, we may choose not to enforce these indemnities because of business reasons. Operating hazards increase our risk of liability; we may not be able to fully insure against all of these risks. Our operations are subject to various operating hazards and risks, including: • well blowouts, loss of well control and reservoir damage; • fires and explosions; • catastrophic marine disaster; • adverse sea and weather conditions; • mechanical failure; • navigation errors; • collision; • oil and hazardous substance spills, containment and clean up; 12 • lost or stuck drill strings; • equipment defects; • labor shortages and strikes; • damage to and loss of drilling rigs and production facilities; and • war, sabotage, terrorism and piracy. These risks present a threat to the safety of personnel and to our rigs, cargo, equipment under tow and other property, as well as the environment. Our operations and those of others could be suspended as a result of these hazards, whether the fault is ours or that of a third party. In certain circumstances, governmental authorities may suspend drilling operations as a result of these hazards, and our customers may cancel or terminate their contracts. Third parties may have significant claims against us for damages due to personal injury, death, property damage, pollution and loss of business if such event were to occur in our operations. Our offshore drilling operations are also subject to marine hazards, either at offshore sites or while drilling equipment is under tow, such as vessel capsizings, sinking, collisions or groundings. In addition, raising and lowering jack-up drilling rigs, flooding semisubmersible ballast tanks and drilling into high-pressure formations are complex, hazardous activities, and we can encounter problems. We have had accidents in the past due to some of the hazards described above. Because of the ongoing hazards associated with our operations: • we may experience accidents; • our insurance coverage may prove inadequate to cover our losses; • our insurance deductibles may increase; or • our insurance premiums may increase to the point where maintaining our current level of coverage is prohibitively expensive or we may be unable to obtain insurance at all. We maintain insurance coverage against casualty and liability risks and have renewed our primary insurance program through June 30, 2012. Certain risks, however, such as pollution, reservoir damage and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Although we believe our insurance is adequate, our policies and contractual indemnity rights may not adequately cover all losses or may have exclusions of coverage for certain losses. We do not have insurance coverage or rights to indemnity for all risks. In addition, we may be unable to renew or maintain our existing insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or at all. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or contractual indemnity, it could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. There is no assurance that our insurance coverage will be available or affordable and, if available, whether it will be adequate to cover future claims that may arise. Additionally, there is no assurance that those parties with contractual obligations to indemnify us will necessarily be financially able or willing to indemnify us against all these risks. Our drilling contracts provide for varying levels of indemnification from our customers and in most cases may require us to indemnify our customers. Under offshore drilling contracts, liability with respect to personnel and property is customarily assigned on a “knock-for-knock” basis, which means that we and our customers assume liability for our respective personnel and property. However, in certain cases we may have liability for damage to our customer’s property and other third-party property on the rig. Our customers typically assume responsibility for and indemnify us from any loss or liability resulting from pollution or contamination, including clean-up and removal and third-party damages, arising from operations under the contract and originating below the surface of the water, including as a result of blow-outs or cratering of the well. In some drilling contracts, however, we may have liability for third-party damages resulting from such pollution or contamination caused by our gross negligence, or, in some cases, ordinary negligence, subject to negotiated caps. We generally indemnify the customer for legal and financial consequences of spills of industrial waste and other liquids originating from our rigs or equipment above the surface of the water. The above description of our insurance program and the indemnification provisions of our drilling contracts is only a summary and is general in nature. Our insurance program and the terms of our drilling contracts may change in the future. In addition, the indemnification provisions of our drilling contracts may be subject to differing interpretations, and enforcement of those provisions may be limited by public policy and other considerations. 13 Our long-term contracts are subject to the risk of cost increases, which could adversely impact our profitability. In periods of rising demand for offshore rigs, a drilling contractor generally would prefer to enter into well-to-well or other short-term contracts less than one year in duration that would allow the contractor to profit from increasing day rates, while customers with reasonably definite drilling programs would typically prefer long-term contracts in order to maintain day rates at a consistent level. Conversely, in periods of decreasing demand for offshore rigs, a drilling contractor generally would prefer long-term contracts to preserve day rates and utilization, while customers generally would prefer well-to-well or other short-term contracts that would allow the customer to benefit from the decreasing day rates. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, a majority of our revenue was derived from long-term day rate contracts greater than one year in duration, and substantially all of our backlog as of September 30, 2011 was attributable to long-term day rate contracts. As a result, our inability to fully benefit from increasing day rates in an improving market may limit our profitability. In general, our costs increase as the business environment for drilling services improves and demand for oilfield equipment and skilled labor increases. While many of our contracts include cost escalation provisions that allow changes to our day rate based on stipulated cost increases or decreases, the timing and amount earned from these day rate adjustments may differ from our actual increase in costs. Additionally, if our rigs incur idle time between contracts, we typically do not remove personnel from those rigs because we utilize the crew to prepare the rig for its next contract. During times of reduced activity, reductions in costs may not be immediate as portions of the crew may be required to prepare our rigs for stacking, after which time the crew members are assigned to active rigs or dismissed. Moreover, as our rigs are mobilized from one geographic location to another, the labor and other operating and maintenance costs can vary significantly. In general, labor costs increase primarily due to higher salary levels and inflation. Equipment maintenance expenses fluctuate depending upon the type of activity the unit is performing and the age and condition of the equipment. Contract preparation expenses vary based on the scope and length of contract preparation required and the duration of the firm contractual period over which such expenditures are amortized. A change in tax laws in any country in which we operate could result in higher tax expense. We conduct our worldwide operations through various subsidiaries. Tax laws and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation. Consequently, we are subject to changing tax laws, treaties and regulations in and between countries in which we operate. Our income tax expense is based on our interpretation of the tax laws in effect at the time the expense was incurred. Tax legislation is proposed from time to time which could, among other things, limit our ability to defer the taxation of non-U.S. income and would increase current tax expense. A change in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or in the interpretation thereof, could result in a materially higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings. We file periodic tax returns that are subject to review and audit by various revenue agencies in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Taxing authorities may challenge any of our tax positions. We are currently contesting tax assessments that could be material and we may contest future assessments where we believe the assessments are in error. Determinations by such authorities that differ materially from our recorded estimates, favorably or unfavorably, may have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Government regulation and environmental risks could reduce our business opportunities and increase our costs. We must comply with extensive government regulation in the form of international conventions, federal, state and local laws and regulations in jurisdictions where our vessels operate and are registered. These conventions, laws and regulations govern oil spills and matters of environmental protection, worker health and safety, and the manning, construction and operation of vessels, and vessel and port security. We believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable environmental, health and safety and vessel and port security laws and regulations as currently in effect. We are not a party to any pending governmental litigation or similar proceeding, and we are not aware of any threatened governmental litigation or proceeding which, if adversely determined, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. However, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and even criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations and the issuance of injunctions that may limit or prohibit our operations. In addition, compliance with environmental, health and safety and vessel and port security laws increases our costs of doing business. 14 Environmental, health and safety and vessel and port security laws change frequently, and we may not be able to anticipate such changes or the impact of such changes. There is no assurance that we can avoid significant costs, liabilities and penalties imposed as a result of governmental regulation in the future. Changes in laws or regulations regarding offshore oil and gas exploration and development activities, the cost or availability of insurance, and decisions by customers, governmental agencies, or other industry participants could reduce demand for our services or increase our costs of operations, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition and operating results, but we cannot reasonably or reliably estimate that such changes will occur, when they will occur, or if they will impact us. The Macondo well incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico in April 2010 and its impact on worldwide drilling operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Atwood Condor, which is expected to be delivered from the shipyard in June 2012, will mobilize to the U.S. Gulf of Mexico to operate under a 21-month contract expected to commence in September 2012. In the future, we may relocate other rigs to or place other new build rigs in service in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. The Macondo incident and its consequences, including actions taken, or that may be taken, by the U.S. and other governments or our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, regulatory actions within a region, such as the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, may have an impact on global utilization and day rates. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or foreign anti-bribery legislation could have an adverse impact on our business. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, including the United Kingdom Bribery Act 2010, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices and impact our business. Although we have programs in place covering compliance with anti-bribery legislation, any failure to comply with the FCPA or other anti-bribery legislation could subject us to civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We could also face fines, sanctions and other penalties from authorities in the relevant foreign jurisdictions, including prohibition of our participating in or curtailment of business operations in those jurisdictions and the seizure of rigs or other assets. Our international operations may involve risks not generally associated with domestic operations. We derive substantially all of our revenues from operations outside the United States. Our operations are subject to risks inherent in conducting business internationally, such as: • legal and governmental regulatory requirements; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; • political, social and economic instability; • terrorist acts, piracy, war and civil disturbances; • language and cultural difficulties; • potential vessel seizure, expropriation or nationalization of assets or confiscatory taxation; • import-export quotas or other trade barriers; • renegotiation, nullification or modification of existing contracts; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • foreign and domestic monetary policies; • work stoppages; • complications associated with repairing and replacing equipment in remote locations; 15 • limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk coverage, in certain areas; • wage and price controls; • assaults on property or personnel, including kidnappings; • travel limitations or operational problems caused by public health or security threats; • imposition of currency exchange controls; • solicitation by governmental officials for improper payments or other forms of corruption; • currency exchange fluctuations and devaluations; or, • potentially adverse tax consequences, including those due to changes in laws or interpretation of existing laws. Our non-U.S. operations are subject to various laws and regulations in certain countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to the import and export, equipment and operation of drilling units, currency conversions and repatriation, oil and gas exploration and development, and taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel. Governments in some foreign countries have become increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions and companies holding concessions, the exploration for oil and gas and other aspects of the oil and gas industries in their countries, including local content requirements for participating in tenders for certain drilling contracts. Many governments favor or effectively require the awarding of drilling contracts to local contractors or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. In addition, government action, including initiatives by OPEC, may continue to cause oil or gas price volatility. In some areas of the world, this governmental activity has adversely affected the amount of exploration and development work by major oil companies and may continue to do so. Operations in less developed countries can be subject to legal systems which are not as mature or predictable as those in more developed countries, which can lead to greater uncertainty in legal matters and proceedings. Some of our drilling contracts are partially payable in local currency. Those amounts may exceed our local currency needs, leading to the accumulation of excess local currency, which, in certain instances, may be subject to either temporary blocking or other difficulties converting to U.S. dollars. Excess amounts of local currency may be exposed to the risk of currency exchange losses. The shipment of goods, services and technology across international borders subjects us to extensive trade and other laws and regulations. Our import and export activities are governed by unique customs laws and regulations in each of the countries where we operate. Moreover, many countries, including the U.S., control the import and export of certain goods, services and technology and impose related import and export recordkeeping and reporting obligations, the laws and regulations related to which are complex and constantly changing. These laws and regulations may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner materially impacting our operations. Shipments may be delayed and denied import or export for a variety of reasons, some of which are outside our control, and such delays or denials could cause unscheduled operational downtime. Any failure to comply with these applicable legal and regulatory obligations also could result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from government contracts, seizure of shipments and loss of import and export privileges. In the past, these conditions or events have not materially affected our operations. However, we cannot predict whether any such conditions or events might develop in the future. Also, we organized our subsidiary structure and our operations, in part, based on certain assumptions about various foreign and domestic tax laws, currency exchange requirements, and capital repatriation laws. While we believe our assumptions are correct, there can be no assurance that taxing or other authorities will reach the same conclusion. If our assumptions are incorrect, or if the relevant countries change or modify such laws or the current interpretation of such laws, we may suffer adverse tax and financial consequences, including the reduction of cash flow available to meet required debt service and other obligations. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our business, operating results and financial condition. 16 Our business is subject to war, sabotage, terrorism and piracy, which could have an adverse effect. It is unclear what impact the current United States military campaigns or possible future campaigns will have on the energy industry in general, or us in particular, in the future. Uncertainty surrounding retaliatory military strikes or a sustained military campaign may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including changes in the insurance markets, disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including pipelines, production facilities, refineries, electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. War or risk of war may also have an adverse effect on the economy. Acts of war, sabotage, terrorism, piracy and social unrest, brought about by world political events or otherwise, have caused instability in the world’s financial and insurance markets in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Such acts could be directed against companies such as ours, and could also adversely affect the oil, gas and power industries and restrict their future growth. Insurance premiums could increase and coverage may be unavailable in the future. Failure to obtain and retain key personnel could impede our operations. We depend to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and other key management personnel. There is no assurance that these individuals will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other personnel could adversely affect our operations. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business worldwide. Historically, competition for the labor required for drilling operations and construction projects, has intensified as the number of rigs activated, added to worldwide fleets or under construction increased, leading to shortages of qualified personnel in the industry and creating upward pressure on wages and higher turnover. We may experience increased competition for the crews necessary to operate our rigs currently under construction. If increased competition for labor were to intensify in the future we may experience increases in costs or reductions in experience levels which could impact operations. The shortages of qualified personnel or the inability to obtain and retain qualified personnel could also negatively affect the quality, safety and timeliness of our work. Consolidation of suppliers may limit our ability to obtain supplies and services at an acceptable cost, on our schedule or at all. Our operations rely on a significant supply of capital and consumable spare parts and equipment to maintain and repair our fleet. We also rely on the supply of ancillary services, including supply boats and helicopters. Recent consolidation has reduced the number of available suppliers, resulting in fewer alternatives for sourcing of key supplies and services. We may not be able to obtain supplies and services at an acceptable cost, at the times we need them or at all. These cost increases, delays or unavailability could negatively impact our future operations and result in increases in rig downtime, and delays in the repair and maintenance of our fleet. Unionization efforts and labor regulations in certain countries in which we operate could materially increase our costs or limit our flexibility. Certain of our employees and contractors in international markets are represented by labor unions and work under collective bargaining or similar agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiation. Efforts may be made from time to time to unionize portions of our workforce. In addition, we may in the future be subject to strikes or work stoppages and other labor disruptions. Additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining agreements or work stoppages could materially increase our costs, reduce our revenues or limit our flexibility. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. There is a concern that emissions of greenhouse gases (“GHG”) may alter the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that affect the global climate. Climate change, including the impact of global warming, may create physical and financial risk. Physical risks from climate change include an increase in sea level and changes in weather conditions. Given the maritime nature of our business, we do not believe that physical climate change is likely to have a material adverse effect on us. Financial risks relating to climate change are likely to arise from increasing legislation and regulation, as compliance with any new rules could be difficult and costly. United States federal legislation has been proposed in Congress to reduce GHG emissions and federal legislation limiting GHG emissions may be imposed in the United States. In addition, the EPA has undertaken new efforts to collect information regarding GHG emissions and their effects and has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act, one of which requires a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and the other of which regulates emissions of GHGs from certain large stationary sources, effective January 2, 2011. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large 17 GHG emission sources in the United States on an annual basis, as well as certain onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production facilities on an annual basis, beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. Foreign jurisdictions are also addressing climate changes by legislation or regulation. The adoption of legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could require us to incur increased energy, environmental and other costs and capital expenditures to comply. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse impacts upon the oil and gas industry relating to climate change may also affect us as demand for our services depends on the level of activity in offshore oil and natural gas exploration, development and production. Although we do not expect that demand for oil and gas will lessen dramatically over the short term, in the long term global warming may reduce the demand for oil and gas or increased regulation of GHG may create greater incentives for use of alternative energy sources. Any long term material adverse effect on the oil and gas industry may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results, but we cannot reasonably or reliably estimate if it will occur, when it will occur or that it will impact us. We are subject to anti-takeover provisions of our constitutive documents and Texas law. Holders of the shares of an acquisition target often receive a premium for their shares upon a change of control. Texas law and the following provisions of constitutive documents, among others, could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control and could prevent holders of our common stock from receiving such a premium: • Texas law contains a provision that prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any shareholder for three years from the date that person became an affiliated shareholder by beneficially owning 20% or more of our outstanding common stock, unless specified conditions are met. • Under our By-laws, special meetings of shareholders may not be called by anyone other than our chairman of the board of directors, president, or the holders of at least one-tenth of all shares issued, outstanding, and entitled to vote. • Under our Rights Agreement effective October 18, 2002 which expires November 5, 2012, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 500,000 shares of “blank-check” preferred stock and to determine the voting rights and other privileges of these shares without any vote or action by our shareholders. Covenants in our credit facility restrict our ability to engage in certain activities. Our senior secured revolving credit facility restricts our ability to, among other things: • incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue redeemable stock; • pay dividends or distributions; • make loans and other types of investments; • incur liens; • restrict dividends, loans or asset transfers from our subsidiaries; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; • consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person; • acquire assets or businesses; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • enter into new lines of business. 18 In addition, our credit facility contains various financial covenants that impose a maximum leverage ratio of 4.0 to 1.0, a debt to capitalization ratio of 0.5 to 1.0, a minimum interest expense coverage ratio of 3.0 to 1.0 and a minimum collateral maintenance of 150% of the aggregate amount outstanding under the credit facility. Our ability to meet these covenants or requirements may be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will satisfy such covenants and requirements in the future. Such restrictions may limit our ability to successfully execute our business plans, which may have adverse consequences on our operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 