Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors Affecting our Future Prospects Set forth below is a description of certain risk factors which we believe may be relevant to an understanding of us and our business. Security holders are cautioned that these and other factors may affect future performance and cause actual results to differ from those which may be anticipated. See "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." Risks Related to our Financial Condition Current economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. The United States economy is continuing to feel the impact of the economic downturn that began in late 2007, and the future economic environment may not fully recover to levels prior to the downturn. This economic uncertainty has and could further lead to reduced consumer spending for the foreseeable future. If consumer spending decreases or does not grow, we may not be able to sustain the improvement in our same store sales. In addition, reduced or flat consumer spending may drive us and our competitors to offer additional products at promotional prices, which would have a negative impact on our gross profit. We operate a number of stores in areas that are experiencing a lower recovery than the economy on a national level. A continued softening or slow recovery in consumer spending may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. Reduced revenues as a result of decreased consumer spending may also reduce our liquidity and otherwise hinder our ability to implement our long term strategy. We are highly leveraged. Our substantial indebtedness could limit cash flow available for our operations and could adversely affect our ability to service debt or obtain additional financing if necessary. We had, as of March 1, 2014, $5.8 billion of outstanding indebtedness and stockholders' deficit of $2.1 billion. We also had additional borrowing capacity under our $1.795 billion senior secured 11 Table of Contents revolving credit facility of approximately $1,315.1 million, net of outstanding letters of credit of $79.9 million. Our earnings were sufficient to cover fixed charges for fiscal 2014 by $233.4 million. However, our earnings were insufficient to cover fixed charges and preferred stock dividends for fiscal 2013, 2012, 2011 and 2010 by $14.0 million, $412.4 million, $564.8 million and $498.4 million, respectively. Our high level of indebtedness will continue to restrict our operations. Among other things, our indebtedness will: •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the markets in which we compete; •place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors with less indebtedness; •render us more vulnerable to general adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions; and •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to service our debt. Our ability to meet our cash requirements, including our debt service obligations, is dependent upon our ability to substantially improve our operating performance, which will be subject to general economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot provide any assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our cash requirements and debt service obligations. We believe we have adequate sources of liquidity to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, debt service and capital expenditures through fiscal 2015 and have no significant debt maturities prior to February 2018. However, if our operating results, cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates rise significantly, we could face liquidity constraints. If we are unable to service our debt or experience a significant reduction in our liquidity, we could be forced to reduce or delay planned capital expenditures and other initiatives, sell assets, restructure or refinance our debt or seek additional equity capital, and we may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms or in a timely manner. Further, any of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations or may have an adverse impact on our business. Our existing debt agreements limit our ability to take certain of these actions. Our failure to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay our debts or refinance our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on us. Borrowings under our senior secured credit facility are based upon variable rates of interest, which could result in higher expense in the event of increases in interest rates. As of March 1, 2014, approximately $2.5 billion of our outstanding indebtedness bore interest at a rate that varies depending upon the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"). Borrowings under our Second Lien facilities Tranche 1 Term Loan due August 2020 and Tranche 2 Term Loan due June 2021 are subject to a minimum LIBOR floor of 100 basis points. Borrowings under our new Tranche 7 Term Loan due February 2020 (we refinanced our Tranche 6 Term Loan due February 2020 on March 14, 2014) are subject to a minimum LIBOR floor of 75 basis points. Borrowings under our senior secured revolving credit facility are most sensitive to LIBOR fluctuations because there is no floor. If LIBOR rises, the interest rates on outstanding debt will increase. Therefore an increase in LIBOR would increase our interest payment obligations under those loans and have a negative effect on our cash flow and financial condition. We currently do not maintain hedging contracts that would limit our exposure to variable rates of interest. The covenants in the instruments that govern our current indebtedness may limit our operating and financial flexibility. The covenants in the instruments that govern our current indebtedness limit our ability to: •incur debt and liens; 12 Table of Contents •pay dividends; •make redemptions and repurchases of capital stock; •make loans and investments; •prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; •engage in acquisitions, consolidations, asset dispositions, sale-leaseback transactions and affiliate transactions; •change our business; •amend some of our debt and other material agreements; •issue and sell capital stock of subsidiaries; •restrict distributions from subsidiaries; and •grant negative pledges to other creditors. The senior secured credit facility contains covenants which place restrictions on the incurrence of debt beyond the restrictions described above, the payment of dividends, sale of assets, mergers and acquisitions and the granting of liens. Our senior secured credit facility has a financial covenant which requires us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. The covenant requires that, if availability on the revolving credit facility is less than $150.0 million, we maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.00 to 1.00. As of March 1, 2014, we had availability under our revolving credit facility of approximately $1,315.1 million, our fixed charge coverage ratio was greater than 1.00 to 1.00, and were in compliance with the senior secured credit facility's financial covenant. Our stockholders will experience dilution if we issue additional common stock. We are generally not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common shares or preferred stock, including, subject to the terms of our outstanding debt instruments, any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common shares or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities, whether for cash, as part of incentive compensation or in refinancing transactions. Any additional future issuances of common stock will reduce the percentage of our common stock owned by investors who do not participate in such issuances. In most circumstances, stockholders will not be entitled to vote on whether or not we issue additional shares of common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of issuances of a large number of shares of our common stock or the perception that such issuances could occur. Risks Related to our Operations We need to improve our operations in order to improve our financial condition, but our operations will not improve if we cannot effectively implement our business strategy or if our strategy is negatively affected by worsening economic conditions. We have not yet achieved the sales productivity level of our major competitors. We believe that improving the sales of existing stores is important to improving profitability and operating cash flow. If we are not successful in implementing our strategies, including our efforts to increase sales and further reduce costs, or if our strategies are not effective, we may not be able to improve our operations. In addition, any further adverse change or continued weakness in general economic conditions or major industries can adversely affect drug benefit plans and reduce our pharmacy sales. Adverse changes in general economic conditions could affect consumer buying practices and consequently reduce our sales of front end products, and cause a decrease in our profitability. Failure to improve operations or a continued weakness in major industries or general economic conditions would adversely affect our 13 Table of Contents results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and our ability to make principal or interest payments on our debt. We purchase all of our brand and generic drugs from a single wholesaler. A disruption in this relationship may have a negative effect on us. We purchase all of our brand prescription and beginning during fiscal 2015, will purchase, with limited exceptions, all of our generic drugs from a single wholesaler, McKesson. Pharmacy sales represented approximately 67.9% of our total sales during fiscal 2014. While we believe that alternative sources of supply for most generic and brand name pharmaceuticals are readily available, a significant disruption in our relationship with McKesson could make it difficult for us to continue to operate our business on a regular basis until we executed a replacement wholesaler agreement or developed and implemented self-distribution processes. We believe we could obtain and qualify alternative sources, including through self-distribution, for substantially all of the prescription drugs we sell on an acceptable basis, and accordingly that the impact of any disruption would be temporary. In addition, because McKesson acts as a wholesaler for drugs purchased from ultimate manufacturers worldwide, any disruption in the supply of a given drug could adversely impact McKesson's ability to fulfill our demands, which could adversely effect us. A significant disruption in our computer systems or a cyber security breach could adversely affect our operations. We rely extensively on our computer systems to manage our ordering, pricing, point-of-sale, inventory replenishment and other processes. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber security breaches, vandalism, severe weather conditions, catastrophic events and human error, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. Although we deploy a layered approach to address information security threats and vulnerabilities, including ones from a cyber security standpoint, designed to protect confidential information against data security breaches, a compromise of our information security controls or of those businesses with whom we interact, which results in confidential information being accessed, obtained, damaged or used by unauthorized or improper persons, could harm our reputation and expose us to regulatory actions and claims from customers and clients, financial institutions, payment card associations and other persons, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Moreover, a data security breach could require that we expend significant resources related to our information systems and infrastructure, and could distract management and other key personnel from performing their primary operational duties. If our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any compromise of our security could also result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. Although we maintain cyber security insurance, we cannot assure you that the coverage limits under our insurance program will be adequate to protect us against future claims. Risks Related to our Industry The markets in which we operate are very competitive and further increases in competition could adversely affect us. We face intense competition with local, regional and national companies, including other drugstore chains, independently owned drugstores, supermarkets, mass merchandisers, dollar stores and internet pharmacies. Competition from discount stores has significantly increased during the past few years. Our 14 Table of Contents industry also faces growing competition from companies who import drugs directly from other countries, such as Canada, as well as from large-scale retailers that offer generic drugs at a substantial discount. Some of our competitors have or may merge with or acquire pharmaceutical services companies, pharmacy benefit managers, mail order facilities or enter into strategic partnership alliances with wholesalers, which may further increase competition. We may not be able to effectively compete against them because our existing or potential competitors may have financial and other resources that are superior to ours. In addition, we may be at a competitive disadvantage because we are more highly leveraged than our competitors. The ability of our stores to achieve profitability depends on their ability to achieve a critical mass of loyal, repeat customers. We believe that the continued consolidation of the drugstore industry will further increase competitive pressures in the industry. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to effectively compete in our markets or increase our sales volume in response to further increased competition. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many organizations in the healthcare industry, including pharmacy benefit managers, have consolidated, such as the merger of Express Scripts and Medco Health Solutions, to create larger healthcare enterprises with greater market power, which has resulted in greater pricing pressures. If this consolidation trend continues, it could give the resulting enterprises even greater bargaining power, which may lead to further pressure on the prices for our products and services. If these pressures result in reductions in our prices, our business will become less profitable unless we are able to achieve corresponding reductions in costs or develop profitable new revenue streams. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements, and societal pressures will continue to cause the healthcare industry to evolve, potentially resulting in further business consolidations and alliances among the industry participants we engage with, which may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The availability of pharmacy drugs is subject to governmental regulations. The continued conversion of various prescription drugs, including potential conversions of a number of popular medications, to over-the-counter medications may reduce our pharmacy sales and customers may seek to purchase such medications at non-pharmacy stores. Also, if the rate at which new prescription drugs become available slows or if new prescription drugs that are introduced into the market fail to achieve popularity, our pharmacy sales may be adversely affected. The withdrawal of certain drugs from the market or concerns about the safety or effectiveness of certain drugs or negative publicity surrounding certain categories of drugs may also have a negative effect on our pharmacy sales or may cause shifts in our pharmacy or front end product mix. Changes in third party reimbursement levels for prescription drugs and changes in industry pricing benchmarks could reduce our margins and have a material adverse effect on our business. Sales of prescription drugs reimbursed by third party payors, including the Medicare Part D plans and state sponsored Medicaid and related managed care Medicaid agencies, represented 97.0% of our business in fiscal 2014. The continued efforts of the Federal government, health maintenance organizations, managed care organizations, pharmacy benefit management companies, other State and local government entities, and other third-party payors to reduce prescription drug costs and pharmacy reimbursement rates, as well as litigation relating to how drugs are priced, may impact our profitability. In addition, some of these entities may offer pricing terms that we may not be willing to accept or otherwise restrict our participation in their networks of pharmacy providers. Any significant loss of third-party business could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Certain provisions of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 ("DRA") sought to reduce federal spending by altering the Medicaid reimbursement formula for multi-source (i.e., generic) drugs ("AMP"). Although those reductions did not go into effect, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, signed into law on March 23, 2010 (the "Patient Care Act") enacted a modified AMP reimbursement formula for multi-source drugs. The modified formula, when implemented, may reduce Medicaid reimbursements which could affect our revenues and profits. There have also been a number of other recent proposals and enactments by the Federal government and various states to reduce Medicare Part D and Medicaid reimbursement levels in response to budget problems. We expect other similar proposals in the future. We are subject to governmental regulations, procedures and requirements; our noncompliance or a significant regulatory change could adversely affect our business, the results of our operations or our financial condition. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations ("Regulations"). Changes in these Regulations may require extensive system and operating changes that may be difficult to implement. Untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable Regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect the continued operation of our business, including: (i) suspension of payments from government programs; (ii) loss of required government certifications; (iii) loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government reimbursement programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; (iv) loss of licenses; or (v) significant fines or monetary penalties. The Regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, federal, state and local registration and regulation of pharmacies; dispensing and sale of controlled substances and products containing pseudoephedrine; applicable Medicare and Medicaid Regulations; the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act or ("HIPAA"); Regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing exposure to and the management and disposal of hazardous substances; Regulations enforced by the U. S. Federal Trade Commission, the U. S. Department of Health and Human Services and the Drug Enforcement Administration as well as state regulatory authorities, governing the sale, advertisement and promotion of products we sell; anti-kickback laws; false claims laws and federal and state laws governing the practice of the profession of pharmacy. We are also governed by federal and state laws of general applicability, including laws regulating matters of wage and hour laws, working conditions, health and safety and equal employment opportunity. Certain risks are inherent in providing pharmacy services; our insurance may not be adequate to cover any claims against us. Pharmacies are exposed to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other healthcare products, such as with respect to improper filling of prescriptions, labeling of prescriptions, adequacy of warnings, unintentional distribution of counterfeit drugs and expiration of drugs. In addition, federal and state laws that require our pharmacists to offer counseling, without additional charge, to their customers about medication, dosage, delivery systems, common side effects and other information the pharmacists deem significant can impact our business. Our pharmacists may also have a duty to warn customers regarding any potential negative effects of a prescription drug if the warning could reduce or negate these effects. Although we maintain professional liability and errors and omissions liability insurance, from time to time, claims result in the payment of significant amounts, some portions of which are not funded by insurance. We cannot assure you that the coverage limits under our insurance programs will be adequate to protect us against future claims, or that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms in the future. Our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows may be adversely affected if in the future our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable or there is an increase in liability for which we self-insure or we suffer reputational harm as a result of an error or omission. 16 Table of Contents We may be subject to significant liability should the consumption of any of our products cause injury, illness or death. Products that we sell could become subject to contamination, product tampering, mislabeling or other damage requiring us to recall our private brand products. In addition, errors in the dispensing and packaging of pharmaceuticals could lead to serious injury or death. Product liability claims may be asserted against us with respect to any of the products or pharmaceuticals we sell and we may be obligated to recall our private brand products. A product liability judgment against us or a product recall could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we fail to protect the security of personal information about our customers and associates, we could be subject to costly government enforcement actions or private litigation. Through our sales and marketing activities, we collect and store certain personal information that our customers provide to purchase products or services, enroll in promotional programs, register on our web site, or otherwise communicate and interact with us. We also gather and retain information about our associates in the normal course of business. We may share information about such persons with vendors that assist with certain aspects of our business. Despite instituted safeguards for the protection of such information, security could be compromised and confidential customer or business information misappropriated, for which we have paid related penalties in the past. Loss of customer or business information could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and expose us to claims from customers, financial institutions, payment card associations and other persons, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, compliance with tougher privacy and information security laws and standards may result in significant expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes. Item 1B. Unresolved SEC Staff Comments None 