Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors Affecting our Future Prospects Set forth below is a description of certain risk factors which we believe may be relevant to an understanding of us and our business. Security holders are cautioned that these and other factors may affect future performance and cause actual results to differ from those which may be anticipated. See "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." Risks Related to Our Financial Condition Current economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. The United States economy is continuing to feel the impact of the economic downturn that began in late 2007, and the future economic environment may continue to be less favorable than that of previous years. This economic uncertainty has and could further lead to reduced consumer spending for the foreseeable future. If consumer spending continues to decrease, we will likely not be able to improve our same store sales. In addition, reduced or flat consumer spending may drive us and our competitors to offer additional products at promotional prices, which would have a negative impact on our gross profit. A continued softening or slow recovery in consumer spending may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. Reduced revenues as a result of decreased consumer spending may also reduce our liquidity and otherwise hinder our ability to implement our long term strategy. 11 Table of Contents We are highly leveraged. Our substantial indebtedness could limit cash flow available for our operations and could adversely affect our ability to service debt or obtain additional financing if necessary. We had, as of February 27, 2010, $6.4 billion of outstanding indebtedness and stockholders' deficit of $1.7 billion. We also had additional borrowing capacity under our existing $1.175 billion senior secured revolving credit facility of approximately $936.0 million, net of outstanding letters of credit of $159.0 million. Our earnings were insufficient to cover fixed charges and preferred stock dividends for fiscal 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006 by $498.4 million, $2.6 billion, $340.6 million, $50.8 million and $23.1 million, respectively. Our high level of indebtedness will continue to restrict our operations. Among other things, our indebtedness will: •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the markets in which we compete; •place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors with less indebtedness; •render us more vulnerable to general adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions; and •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to service our debt. Our ability to meet our cash requirements, including our debt service obligations, is dependent upon our ability to substantially improve our operating performance, which will be subject to general economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our cash requirements and debt service obligations. We believe we have adequate sources of liquidity to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, debt service and capital expenditures through fiscal 2011 and have no material maturities prior to September 2012. However, if our operating results, cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates rise significantly, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt and other obligations or otherwise be required to delay our planned activities. If we are unable to service our debt or experience a significant reduction in our liquidity, we could be forced to reduce or delay planned capital expenditures and other initiatives, sell assets, restructure or refinance our debt or seek additional equity capital, and we may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms or in a timely manner. Further, any of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations or may have an adverse impact on our business. Our existing debt agreements limit our ability to take certain of these actions. Our failure to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay our debts or refinance our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on us. Borrowings under our senior secured credit facility are based upon variable rates of interest, which could result in higher expense in the event of increases in interest rates. As of February 27, 2010, approximately $2.1 billion of our outstanding indebtedness bore interest at a rate that varies depending upon the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"), subject, in the case of the Tranche 3 Term Loan, senior secured loan due June 2014; the Tranche 4 Term Loan, senior secured loan due June 2015; and the senior secured revolving credit facility, to a minimum LIBOR floor of 300 basis points. Our Tranche 2 Term Loan, senior secured loan due June 2014, is most subject to LIBOR fluctuations because there is no floor. If we borrow additional amounts under our senior secured revolving credit facility, the interest rate on those borrowings will also vary depending upon LIBOR. If LIBOR rises, the interest rates on outstanding debt will increase. Therefore an increase in LIBOR would increase our interest payment obligations under those loans and have a negative effect on our cash flow and financial condition. We currently do not maintain hedging contracts that would limit our exposure to variable rates of interest. 12 Table of Contents The covenants in the instruments that govern our current indebtedness may limit our operating and financial flexibility. The covenants in the instruments that govern our current indebtedness limit our ability to: •incur debt and liens; •pay dividends; •make redemptions and repurchases of capital stock; •make loans and investments; •prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; •engage in acquisitions, consolidations, asset dispositions, sale-leaseback transactions and affiliate transactions; •change our business; •amend some of our debt and other material agreements; •issue and sell capital stock of subsidiaries; •restrict distributions from subsidiaries; and •grant negative pledges to other creditors. In addition, our credit facility has a fixed charge coverage ratio test which increases from 1.05 to 1.10 beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. The senior secured credit facility only requires us to maintain the minimum fixed charge coverage ratio once availability on the revolving credit facility is less than $150 million. If we are unable to meet the terms of the financial covenants or if we breach any of these covenants, a default could result under one or more of these agreements. A default, if not waived by our lenders, could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness and cause our debt to become immediately due and payable. If acceleration occurs, we would not be able to repay our debt and it is unlikely that we would be able to borrow sufficient additional funds to refinance such debt. Even if new financing is made available to us, it may not be available on terms acceptable to us. If we obtain modifications of our agreements, or are required to obtain waivers of defaults, we may incur significant fees and transaction costs or become subject to more stringent covenants and restrictions on our operations. Our stockholders will experience dilution if we issue additional common stock. Subject to any required approval under the Stockholder Agreement (as defined below), we are generally not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common shares or preferred stock, including, subject to the terms of our outstanding debt instruments, any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common shares or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities, whether for cash, as part of incentive compensation or in refinancing transactions. Any additional future issuances of common stock will reduce the percentage of our common stock owned by investors who do not participate in such issuances. In most circumstances, stockholders will not be entitled to vote on whether or not we issue additional shares of common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of issuances of a large number of shares of our common stock or the perception that such issuances could occur. 13 Table of Contents Subject to certain limitations, Jean Coutu Group may sell Rite Aid common stock at any time, which could cause our stock price to decrease. The shares of Rite Aid common stock that the Jean Coutu Group currently holds are generally restricted, but Jean Coutu Group may sell these shares under certain circumstances, including pursuant to a registered underwritten public offering under the Securities Act or in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act. We have entered into a registration rights agreement with Jean Coutu Group, which will give Jean Coutu Group the right to require us to register all or a portion of its shares at any time (subject to certain exceptions). The sale of a substantial number of our shares by Jean Coutu Group or our other stockholders within a short period of time could cause our stock price to decrease, make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of Rite Aid common stock or acquire other businesses using Rite Aid common stock as consideration. We are in compliance with all New York Stock Exchange continued listing requirements. However, if we do not continue to maintain compliance with such requirements, our common stock may be delisted. On July 1, 2009, we were notified by the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") that, as of July 1, 2009, we regained compliance with the NYSE share price listing requirement. We are in compliance with all NYSE listing rules, have actively been taking steps to maintain our listing and expect our efforts to maintain our NYSE listing will be successful. However, there can be no assurance that we will maintain compliance with the NYSE minimum share price rule or other continued listing requirements. In the event of a delisting, holders of our 8.5% convertible notes due 2015 (the "8.5% Convertible Notes") could require us to repurchase their 8.5% Convertible Notes, which would result in a default under our senior credit facility. Although there can be no assurance that we would be able to do so, we may seek to refinance or otherwise acquire the 8.5% Convertible Notes to avoid such a scenario, as the amendment to our Credit Agreement permits us to do under certain circumstances. Risks Related to Our Operations We need to continue to improve our operations in order to improve our financial condition, but our operations will not improve if we cannot continue to effectively implement our business strategy or if our strategy is negatively affected by worsening economic conditions. We have not yet achieved the sales productivity level of our major competitors. We believe that improving the sales of existing stores is important to improving profitability and operating cash flow. If we are not successful in implementing our strategies, including our efforts to further reduce costs, or if our strategies are not effective, we may not be able to improve our operations. In addition, any further adverse change or continued downturn in general economic conditions or major industries can adversely affect drug benefit plans and reduce our pharmacy sales. Adverse changes in general economic conditions affect consumer buying practices and consequently reduce our sales of front end products, and cause a decrease in our profitability. Failure to continue to improve operations or a continued decline in major industries or general economic conditions would adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and our ability to make principal or interest payments on our debt. For so long as Jean Coutu Group (and, subject to certain conditions, certain members of the Coutu family) maintain certain levels of Rite Aid stock ownership, Jean Coutu Group (and, subject to certain conditions, certain members of the Coutu family) could exercise significant influence over us. At February 27, 2010 Jean Coutu Group owns approximately 27.5% of the voting power of Rite Aid. As a result, Jean Coutu Group (and, subject to certain conditions, certain members of the Coutu family) generally has the ability to significantly influence the outcome of any matter submitted for the vote of our stockholders. The stockholder agreement (the "Stockholder Agreement") that we entered into at the time of the Brooks Eckerd acquisition provides that Jean Coutu Group (and, subject to 14 Table of Contents certain conditions, certain members of the Coutu family) designate four of the fourteen members of our board of directors, subject to adjustment based on its ownership position in us. Accordingly, Jean Coutu Group generally is able to significantly influence the outcome of all matters that come before our board of directors. As a result of its significant interest in us, Jean Coutu Group may have the power, subject to applicable law (including the fiduciary duties of the directors designated by Jean Coutu Group), to significantly influence actions that might be favorable to Jean Coutu Group, but not necessarily favorable to our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the ownership position and governance rights of Jean Coutu Group could discourage a third party from proposing a change of control or other strategic transaction concerning us. Additionally, the Stockholder Agreement provides Jean Coutu Group with certain preemptive rights, the ability to maintain their ownership percentage in Rite Aid and in certain circumstances, requires two-thirds of our Board to approve certain transactions. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and Jean Coutu Group, which may be resolved in a manner that adversely affects our business, financial condition or results of operations. Following the Brooks Eckerd acquisition, Jean Coutu Group has continued its Canadian operations but no longer has any operations in the United States, and we currently have no operations in Canada. Despite the lack of geographic overlap, conflicts of interest may arise between us and Jean Coutu Group in areas relating to past, ongoing and future relationships, including corporate opportunities, potential acquisitions or financing transactions, sales or other dispositions by Jean Coutu Group of its interests in us and the exercise by Jean Coutu Group of its influence over our management and affairs. As a result of the Brooks Eckerd acquisition, a number of the directors on our board of directors are persons who are also officers or directors of Jean Coutu Group or its subsidiaries. Service as a director or officer of both Rite Aid and Jean Coutu Group or its other subsidiaries could create conflicts of interest if such directors or officers are faced with decisions that could have materially different implications for Rite Aid and for Jean Coutu Group. Apart from the conflicts of interest policy contained in our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and applicable to our directors, we and Jean Coutu Group have not established any formal procedures for us and Jean Coutu Group to resolve potential or actual conflicts of interest between us. There can be no assurance that any of the foregoing conflicts will be resolved in a manner that does not adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are dependent on our management team, and the loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on our business and the results of our operations or financial condition. The success of our business is materially dependent upon the continued services of our executive management team. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations, financial condition or cash flows. Additionally, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain other skilled personnel in the future. We are substantially dependent on a single wholesaler of branded pharmaceutical products to sell products to us on satisfactory terms. A disruption in this relationship may have a negative effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. We purchase all of our brand prescription drugs from a single wholesaler, McKesson, pursuant to a contract that runs through April 1, 2013. Pharmacy sales represented approximately 67.9% of our total sales during fiscal 2010, and, therefore, our relationship with McKesson is important to us. Any significant disruptions in our relationship with McKesson would make it difficult for us to continue to operate our business until we executed a replacement wholesaler agreement or developed and implemented self-distribution processes. There can be no assurance that we would be able to find a replacement wholesaler on a timely basis or that such a wholesaler would be able to fulfill our demands 15 Table of Contents on similar terms, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Industry The markets in which we operate are very competitive and further increases in competition could adversely affect us. We face intense competition with local, regional and national companies, including other drugstore chains, independently owned drugstores, supermarkets, mass merchandisers, discount stores, dollar stores, mail order and internet pharmacies. Our industry also faces growing competition from companies who import drugs directly from other countries, such as Canada, as well as from large-scale retailers that offer generic drugs at a substantial discount. Some of our competitors have or may merge with or acquire pharmaceutical services companies or pharmacy benefit managers, which may further increase competition. We may not be able to effectively compete against them because our existing or potential competitors may have financial and other resources that are superior to ours. In addition, we may be at a competitive disadvantage because we are more highly leveraged than our competitors. The ability of our stores to achieve profitability depends on their ability to achieve a critical mass of loyal, repeat customers. We believe that the continued consolidation of the drugstore industry will further increase competitive pressures in the industry. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to effectively compete in our markets or increase our sales volume in response to further increased competition. Drug benefit plan sponsors and third party payors could change their plan eligibility criteria and further encourage or require the use of mail-order prescriptions which could decrease our sales and reduce our margins and have a material adverse effect on our business. An adverse trend for drugstore retailing has been initiatives to contain rising healthcare costs leading to the rapid growth in mail-order prescription processors. These prescription distribution methods have grown in market share relative to drugstores as a result of the rapid rise in drug costs experienced in recent years and are predicted to continue to rise. Mail-order prescription distribution methods are perceived by employers and insurers as being less costly than traditional distribution methods and are being encouraged, and, in some cases, required, by third party pharmacy benefit managers, employers and unions that administer benefits. As a result, some labor unions and employers are requiring, and others may encourage or require, that their members or employees obtain medications from mail-order pharmacies which offer drug prescriptions at prices lower than we are able to offer. Another adverse trend for drugstore retailing has been for drug benefit plan sponsors and third party payors to change their plan eligibility requirements resulting in fewer beneficiaries covered and a reduction in the number of prescriptions allowed. Mail-order prescription distribution and drug benefit plan eligibility changes have negatively affected sales for traditional chain drug retailers, including us, and we expect such negative effect to continue in the future. There can be no assurance that our efforts to offset the effects of mail order and eligibility changes will be successful nor can we predict whether the recently adopted health care reform legislation will exacerbate this risk. The availability of pharmacy drugs is subject to governmental regulations. The continued conversion of various prescription drugs, including the planned conversion of a number of popular medications, to over-the-counter medications may reduce our pharmacy sales and customers may seek to purchase such medications at non-pharmacy stores. Also, if the rate at which new prescription drugs become available slows or if new prescription drugs that are introduced into the market fail to achieve popularity, our pharmacy sales may be adversely affected. The withdrawal of 16 Table of Contents certain drugs from the market or concerns about the safety or effectiveness of certain drugs or negative publicity surrounding certain categories of drugs may also have a negative effect on our pharmacy sales or may cause shifts in our pharmacy or front end product mix. Changes in third party reimbursement levels for prescription drugs and changes in industry pricing benchmarks could reduce our margins and have a material adverse effect on our business. Sales of prescription drugs reimbursed by third party payors, including the Medicare Part D plans and state sponsored Medicaid agencies, are 96.2% of our business. We expect our pharmacy gross margin to be lower in fiscal 2011 than previously experienced due to continued reimbursement rate pressures, fewer new generics, fewer price reductions on existing generics and the impact of the recently implemented Average Wholesale Price ("AWP") adjustments on our Medicaid business. In conjunction with a class action settlement with two entities that publish the average wholesale price (AWP) of pharmaceuticals, the methodology used to calculate the AWP, a pricing reference widely used in the pharmacy industry, reduced the AWP for many prescription drugs effective September 26, 2009. We have reached understandings with most of our third party payors to adjust reimbursements to correct for this change in methodology, but many state Medicaid programs that utilize AWP as a pricing reference have not taken action to make similar adjustments, which is expected to result in reduced Medicaid reimbursement levels in fiscal 2011 as we have experienced in the latter part of fiscal 2010. In fiscal 2010, approximately 6.9% of our revenues were from state sponsored Medicaid agencies, the largest of which was approximately 2.0% of our total sales. Additionally, certain provisions of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (DRA) sought to reduce federal spending by altering the Medicaid reimbursement formula for multi-source (i.e., generic) drugs (AMP). Those reductions did not go into effect; however, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, signed into law on March 23, 2010 (the Patient Care Act) enacted a modified reimbursement formula for multi-source drugs. The modified formula, when implemented, may reduce Medicaid reimbursements. There have also been a number of other recent proposals and enactments by the Federal government and various states to reduce Medicare Part D and Medicaid reimbursement levels in response to budget problems. We expect other similar proposals in the future. The continued efforts of the Federal government, health maintenance organizations, managed care organizations, pharmacy benefit management companies, other State and local government entities, and other third-party payors to reduce prescription drug costs and pharmacy reimbursement rates, as well as litigation relating to how drugs are priced, may impact our profitability. In addition, some of these entities may offer pricing terms that we may not be willing to accept or otherwise restrict our participation in their networks of pharmacy providers. Although we expect continued improvements in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues to somewhat mitigate all of these factors above, if our pharmacy gross margin continues to decrease, it would adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are subject to governmental regulations, procedures and requirements; our noncompliance or a significant regulatory change could adversely affect our business, the results of our operations or our financial condition. Our business is subject to federal, state and local government laws, regulations and administrative practices. We must comply with numerous provisions regulating health and safety, equal employment opportunity, minimum wage and licensing for the sale of drugs, alcoholic beverages, tobacco and other products. In addition, we must comply with regulations pertaining to product labeling, dating and pricing. Our pharmacy business is subject to local registrations in the states where our pharmacies are located, applicable Medicare and Medicaid regulations and prohibitions against paid referrals of patients. Failure to properly adhere to these and other applicable regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties including suspension of payments from government programs; 17 Table of Contents loss of required government certifications; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government reimbursement programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; loss of licenses; significant fines or monetary penalties for anti-kickback law violations, submission of false claims or other failures to meet reimbursement program requirements and could adversely affect the continued operation of our business. Additionally, any such failure could damage our reputation or brand. Our pharmacy business is subject to the patient privacy and other obligations including corporate, pharmacy and associate responsibility, imposed by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. As a covered entity, we are required to implement privacy standards, train our associates on the permitted use and disclosures of protected health information, properly dispose of related records, provide a notice of privacy practice to our pharmacy customers and permit pharmacy health customers to access and amend their records and receive an accounting of disclosures of protected health information. Failure to properly adhere to these requirements could result in the imposition of civil as well as criminal penalties. Federal and state reform programs, such as healthcare reform and enforcement initiatives of federal and state governments may also affect our pharmacy business. These initiatives include: •proposals designed to significantly reduce spending on Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs; •changes in programs providing for reimbursement for the cost of prescription drugs by third party plans; •increased scrutiny of, and litigation relating to, prescription drug manufacturers' pricing and marketing practices; and •regulatory changes relating to the approval process for prescription drugs. These initiatives could lead to the implementation or enactment of, or changes to, federal regulations and state regulations that could adversely impact our prescription drug sales and, accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. It is uncertain at this time what additional healthcare reform initiatives, if any, will be implemented, or whether there will be other changes in the administration of governmental healthcare programs or interpretations of governmental policies or other changes affecting the healthcare system. The recently adopted healthcare reform legislation as well as future healthcare or budget legislation or other changes, including those referenced above, may materially adversely impact our pharmacy sales. Certain risks are inherent in providing pharmacy services; our insurance may not be adequate to cover any claims against us. Pharmacies are exposed to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other healthcare products, such as with respect to improper filling of prescriptions, labeling of prescriptions, adequacy of warnings, unintentional distribution of counterfeit drugs and expiration of drugs. In addition, federal and state laws that require our pharmacists to offer counseling, without additional charge, to their customers about medication, dosage, delivery systems, common side effects and other information the pharmacists deem significant can impact our business. Our pharmacists may also have a duty to warn customers regarding any potential negative effects of a prescription drug if the warning could reduce or negate these effects. Although we maintain professional liability and errors and omissions liability insurance, from time to time, claims result in the payment of significant amounts, some portions of which are not funded by insurance. We cannot assure you that the coverage limits under our insurance programs will be adequate to protect us against future claims, or that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms in the future. Our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows may be adversely affected if in the future our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable or there is an increase in liability for which we self-insure or we suffer reputational harm as a result of an error or omission. 18 Table of Contents We will not be able to compete effectively if we are unable to attract, hire and retain qualified pharmacists. The national shortage of pharmacists has eased over the past 12 months, resulting in more licensed pharmacists and new graduates seeking positions in many markets. Although this is occurring nationally, there is still an unmet demand for pharmacists in certain regions of the country that are challenging to staff. We continue to offer competitive compensation plans to retain and attract current and future pharmacists, work with Colleges of Pharmacy across the U.S. to recruit both pharmacy interns and pharmacy graduates and conduct a recruiting program for international pharmacists, but if the shortage recurs in one or more markets, our ability to compete effectively in that market could be adversely impacted. We may be subject to significant liability should the consumption of any of our products cause injury, illness or death. Products that we sell could become subject to contamination, product tampering, mislabeling or other damage requiring us to recall our private brand products. In addition, errors in the dispensing and packaging of pharmaceuticals could lead to serious injury or death. Product liability claims may be asserted against us with respect to any of the products or pharmaceuticals we sell and we may be obligated to recall our private brand products. A product liability judgment against us or a product recall could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we fail to protect the security of personal information about our customers and associates, we could be subject to costly government enforcement actions or private litigation. Through our sales and marketing activities, we collect and store certain personal information that our customers provide to purchase products or services, enroll in promotional programs, register on our web site, or otherwise communicate and interact with us. We also gather and retain information about our associates in the normal course of business. We may share information about such persons with vendors that assist with certain aspects of our business. Despite instituted safeguards for the protection of such information, security could be compromised and confidential customer or business information misappropriated. Loss of customer or business information could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and expose us to claims from customers, financial institutions, payment card associations and other persons, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, compliance with tougher privacy and information security laws and standards may result in significant expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes. Item 1B. Unresolved SEC Staff Comments None 