Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors Affecting our Future Prospects Set forth below is a description of certain risk factors which we believe may be relevant to an understanding of us and our business. Security holders are cautioned that these and other factors may affect future performance and cause actual results to differ from those which may, from time to time, be anticipated. See “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Financial Condition We are highly leveraged. Our substantial indebtedness could limit cash flow available for our operations and could adversely affect our ability to service debt or obtain additional financing if necessary. We had, as of March 3, 2007, $3.1 billion of outstanding indebtedness and stockholders’ equity of approximately $1.66 billion. We also had additional borrowing capacity under our existing $1.75 billion senior secured revolving credit facility of approximately $1.33 billion at that time, net of outstanding letters of credit of $117.1 million. At the time of closing for the pending acquisition, we will fund the $2.3 billion cash portion of the purchase price with the issuance of additional debt. Our debt obligations adversely affect our operations in a number of ways and while we believe we have adequate sources of liquidity to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, debt service and capital expenditures through fiscal year 2008, there can be no assurance that our cash flow from operations will be sufficient to service our debt, which may require us to borrow additional funds for that purpose, restructure or otherwise refinance our debt. Our earnings were insufficient to cover fixed charges for fiscal 2007, 2006, 2004, and 2003 by $50.8 million, $23.1 million, $2.6 million, and $204.3 million, respectively. Our ratio of earnings to fixed charges for fiscal 2005 was 1.15. Our high level of indebtedness will continue to restrict our operations. Among other things, our indebtedness will: · limit our ability to obtain additional financing; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the markets in which we compete; · place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors with less indebtedness; · render us more vulnerable to general adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions; and · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to service our debt. Our ability to meet our cash requirements, including our debt service obligations, both now and after the consummation of the pending acquisition, will be dependent upon our ability to substantially improve our operating performance, which will be subject to general economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which we cannot control. If our cash flow from our operating activities is insufficient, we may take certain actions, including delaying or reducing capital or other expenditures, attempting to restructure or refinance our debt, selling assets or operations or seeking additional equity capital. We may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms or in a timely manner. Further, any of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations or may have an adverse impact on our business. Our existing debt agreements limit our ability to take certain of these actions. Our failure to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay our debts or to successfully undertake any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on us. 14 Borrowings under our existing and new credit facilities and expenses related to the sale of our accounts receivable under our receivables securitization agreements are based upon variable rates of interest, which could result in higher expense in the event of increases in interest rates. Approximately $445 million of our outstanding indebtedness as of March 3, 2007 and approximately $1.1 billion of debt to be issued at the time of closing for the pending acquisition bears or will bear an interest rate that varies depending upon the Londan Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”). If we borrow additional amounts under our senior credit facility, the interest rate on those borrowings will also vary depending upon LIBOR. Further, we pay ongoing program fees under our receivables securitization agreements that vary depending upon LIBOR. If LIBOR rises, the interest rates on outstanding debt and the program fees under our receivables securitization program will increase. Therefore an increase in LIBOR would increase our interest payment obligations under these loans, increase our receivables securitization program fee payments and have a negative effect on our cash flow and financial condition. We currently do not maintain any hedging contracts that would limit our exposure to variable rates of interest. The covenants in our current indebtedness and the indebtedness to be incurred to finance the acquisition impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility. The covenants in the instruments that govern our current indebtedness and the indebtedness to be incurred in connection with the pending acquisition limit our ability to: · incur liens and debt; · pay dividends; · make redemptions and repurchases of capital stock; · make loans and investments; · prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; · engage in acquisitions, consolidations, assets dispositions, sale-leaseback transactions and affiliate transactions; · change our business; · amend some of our debt and other material agreements; · issue and sell capital stock of subsidiaries; · restrict distributions from subsidiaries; and · grant negative pledges to other creditors. In addition, if we have less than $100.0 million of revolver availability under our senior secured credit facility, we will be subject to a fixed charge coverage ratio maintenance test. If we are unable to meet the terms of the financial covenants or if we breach any of these covenants, a default could result under one or more of these agreements. A default, if not waived by our lenders, could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness and cause our debt to become immediately due and payable. If acceleration occurs, we would not be able to repay our debt and it is unlikely that we would be able to borrow sufficient additional funds to refinance such debt. Even if new financing is made available to us, it may not be available on terms acceptable to us. If we obtain modifications of our agreements, or are required to obtain waivers of defaults, we may incur significant fees and transaction costs. 15 Risks Related to Our Operations We need to continue to improve our operations in order to improve our financial condition, but our operations will not improve if we cannot continue to effectively implement our business strategy or if our strategy is negatively affected by general economic conditions. We have not yet achieved the sales productivity level of our major competitors. We believe that improving the sales of existing stores is important to improving profitability and operating cash flow. If we are not successful in implementing our strategy, or if our strategy is not effective, we may not be able to improve our operations. In addition, any adverse change in general economic conditions or major industries can adversely affect drug benefit plans and reduce our pharmacy sales or can adversely affect consumer buying practices and reduce our sales of front-end products, and cause a decrease in our profitability. Failure to continue to improve operations or a decline in major industries or general economic conditions would adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and our ability to make principal or interest payments on our debt. Our new store and store relocation development program requires entering construction and development commitments and occasionally purchasing land that will not be utilized for several years which may limit our financial flexibility. We will enter into significant construction and development commitments as part of our new store and store relocation development program. Also, we will occasionally make capital expenditures to acquire land that may not be used for several years. Even if there are significant negative economic or competitive developments in our industry, financial condition or the regions where we have made these commitments, we are obligated to fulfill these commitments. Further, if we subsequently dispose of the property that we acquire, we may receive less than our purchase price or the net book value of such property, which may result in financial loss. We are dependent on our management team, and the loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on our business and the results of our operations or financial condition. The success of our business is materially dependent upon the continued services of our executive management team. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations, financial condition or cash flows. Additionally, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain other skilled personnel in the future. We are substantially dependent on a single wholesaler of branded pharmaceutical products to sell products to us on satisfactory terms. A disruption in this relationship may have a negative effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. We purchase all of our brand prescription drugs from a single wholesaler, McKesson, pursuant to a contract that runs through March 2009. Pharmacy sales represented approximately 63.7% of our total sales during fiscal 2007, and, therefore, our relationship with McKesson is important to us. Any significant disruptions in our relationship with McKesson would make it difficult for us to continue to operate our business until we executed a replacement strategy. There can be no assurance that we would be able to find a replacement supplier on a timely basis or that such supplier would be able to fulfill our demands on similar terms, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 16 Risks Related to Our Industry The markets in which we operate are very competitive and further increases in competition could adversely affect us. We face intense competition with local, regional and national companies, including other drugstore chains, independently owned drugstores, supermarkets, mass merchandisers, discount stores, dollar stores and mail order pharmacies. Our industry also faces growing competition from companies who import drugs directly from other countries, such as Canada, as well as from large-scale retailers that offer generic drugs at a substantial discount. Some of our competitors have or may merge with or acquire pharmaceutical services companies, which may further increase competition. We may not be able to effectively compete against them because our existing or potential competitors may have financial and other resources that are superior to ours. In addition, we may be at a competitive disadvantage because we are more highly leveraged than our competitors. The ability of our stores to achieve profitability depends on their ability to achieve a critical mass of customers. We believe that the continued consolidation of the drugstore industry will further increase competitive pressures in the industry. As competition increases, a significant increase in general pricing pressures could occur, which would require us to increase our sales volume and to sell higher margin products and services in order to remain competitive. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue effectively to compete in our markets or increase our sales volume in response to further increased competition. Drug benefit plan sponsors and third party payors could change their plan eligibility criteria and further encourage or require the use of mail-order prescriptions which could decrease our sales and reduce our margins and have a material adverse effect on our business. An adverse trend for drugstore retailing has been initiatives to contain rising healthcare costs leading to the rapid growth in mail-order prescription processors. These prescription distribution methods have grown in market share relative to drugstores as a result of the rapid rise in drug costs experienced in recent years and are predicted to continue to rise. Mail-order prescription distribution methods are perceived by employers and insurers as being less costly than traditional distribution methods and are being encouraged, and, in some cases, required, by third party pharmacy benefit managers, employers and unions that administer benefits. As a result, some labor unions and employers are requiring, and others may encourage or require, that their members or employees obtain medications from mail-order pharmacies which offer drug prescriptions at prices lower than we are able to offer. Another adverse trend for drugstore retailing has been for drug benefit plan sponsors and third party payors to change their plan eligibility requirements resulting in fewer beneficiaries covered and a reduction in the number of prescriptions allowed. Mail-order prescription distribution and drug benefit plan eligibility changes have negatively affected sales for traditional chain drug retailers, including us, in the last few years and we expect such negative effect to continue in the future. There can be no assurance that our efforts to offset the effects of mail order and eligibility changes will be successful. The availability of pharmacy drugs is subject to governmental regulations. The continued conversion of various prescription drugs to over-the-counter medications may reduce our pharmacy sales and customers may seek to purchase such medications at non-pharmacy stores. Also, if the rate at which new prescription drugs become available slows or if new prescription drugs that are introduced into the market fail to achieve popularity, our pharmacy sales may be adversely affected. The withdrawal of certain drugs from the market or concerns about the safety or effectiveness of certain drugs or negative publicity surrounding certain categories of drugs may also have a negative effect on our pharmacy sales or may cause shifts in our pharmacy or front-end product mix. 17 Changes in third party reimbursement levels for prescription drugs could reduce our margins and have a material adverse effect on our business. Sales of prescription drugs, as a percentage of sales, and the percentage of prescription sales reimbursed by third parties, have been increasing and we expect them to continue to increase. In fiscal 2007, sales of prescription drugs represented 63.7% of our sales and 95.4% of all of the prescription drugs that we sold were with third party payors. During fiscal 2007, the top five third-party payors accounted for approximately 31.2% of our total sales, the largest of which represented 9.4% of our total sales. Third party payors could reduce the levels at which they will reimburse us for the prescription drugs that we provide to their members. Any significant loss of third-party payor business or any significant reduction in reimbursement levels could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In fiscal 2007, approximately 6.8% of our revenues were from state sponsored Medicaid agencies, the largest of which was 2% of our total sales. In fiscal 2007, approximately 13% of our prescription sales were to customers covered by Medicare Part D, and we expect these sales to continue. There have been a number of recent proposals and enactments by the Federal government and various states to reduce Medicaid reimbursement levels in response to budget problems, some of which propose to reduce reimbursement levels in the applicable states significantly, and we expect other similar proposals in the future. If third party payors reduce their reimbursement levels or if Medicare Part D or state Medicaid programs cover prescription drugs at lower reimbursement levels, our margins on these sales would be reduced, and the profitability of our business and our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected. We are subject to governmental regulations, procedures and requirements; our noncompliance or a significant regulatory change could adversely affect our business, the results of our operations or our financial condition. Our business is subject to federal, state and local government laws, regulations and administrative practices. We must comply with numerous provisions regulating health and safety, equal employment opportunity, minimum wage and licensing for the sale of drugs, alcoholic beverages, tobacco and other products. In addition, we must comply with regulations pertaining to product labeling, dating and pricing. Our pharmacy business is subject to local registrations in the states where our pharmacies are located, applicable Medicare and Medicaid regulations and prohibitions against paid referrals of patients. Failure to properly adhere to these and other applicable regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties including suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government reimbursement programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; loss of licenses; significant fines or monetary penalties for anti-kickback law violations, submission of false claims or other failures to meet reimbursement program requirements and could adversely affect the continued operation of our business. Our pharmacy business is subject to the patient privacy and other obligations including corporate, pharmacy and associate responsibility, imposed by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. As a covered entity, we are required to implement privacy standards, train our associates on the permitted use and disclosures of protected health information, provide a notice of privacy practice to our pharmacy customers and permit pharmacy health customers to access and amend their records and receive an accounting of disclosures of protected health information. Failure to properly adhere to these requirements could result in the imposition of civil as well as criminal penalties. Federal and state reform programs, such as healthcare reform and enforcement initiatives of federal and state governments may also affect our pharmacy business. These initiatives include: · proposals designed to significantly reduce spending on Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs; 18 · changes in programs providing for reimbursement for the cost of prescription drugs by third party plans; · increased scrutiny of, and litigation relating to, prescription drug manufacturers’ pricing and marketing pactices; and · regulatory changes relating to the approval process for prescription drugs. These initiatives could lead to the enactment of, or changes to, federal regulations and state regulations that could adversely impact our prescription drug sales and, accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. It is uncertain at this time what additional healthcare reform initiatives, if any, will be implemented, or whether there will be other changes in the administration of governmental healthcare programs or interpretations of governmental policies or other changes affecting the healthcare system. Future healthcare or budget legislation or other changes, including those referenced above, may materially adversely impact our pharmacy sales. Certain risks are inherent in providing pharmacy services; our insurance may not be adequate to cover any claims against us. Pharmacies are exposed to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other healthcare products, such as with respect to improper filling of prescriptions, labeling of prescriptions, adequacy of warnings and unintentional distribution of counterfeit drugs. In addition, federal and state laws that require our pharmacists to offer counseling, without additional charge, to their customers about medication, dosage, delivery systems, common side effects and other information the pharmacists deem significant can impact our business. Our pharmacists may also have a duty to warn customers regarding any potential negative effects of a prescription drug if the warning could reduce or negate these effects. Although we maintain professional liability and errors and omissions liability insurance, from time to time, claims result in the payment of significant amounts, some portions of which are not funded by insurance. We cannot assure you that the coverage limits under our insurance programs will be adequate to protect us against future claims, or that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms in the future. Our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows may be adversely affected if in the future our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable or there is an increase in liability for which we self-insure or we suffer reputational harm as a result of an error or omission. We will not be able to compete effectively if we are unable to attract, hire and retain qualified pharmacists. There is a nationwide shortage of qualified pharmacists. However, we may not be able to attract, hire and retain enough qualified pharmacists. This could adversely affect our operations. We may be subject to significant liability should the consumption of any of our products cause injury, illness or death. Products that we sell could become subject to contamination, product tampering, mislabeling or other damage requiring us to recall our private label products. In addition, errors in the dispensing and packaging of pharmaceuticals could lead to serious injury or death. Product liability claims may be asserted against us with respect to any of the products or pharmaceuticals we sell and we may be obligated to recall our private brand products. A product liability judgment against us or a product recall could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 19 Risks Related to The Pending Acquisition Although we expect that the pending acquisition of the Brooks and Eckerd drugstore chains will result in benefits to us, we may not realize those benefits because of integration difficulties. Integrating the operations of the Brooks and Eckerd drugstore chains successfully or otherwise realizing any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition including anticipated cost savings and additional revenue opportunities, involve a number of potential challenges. The failure to meet these integration challenges could seriously harm our results of operations . Realizing the benefits of the acquisition will depend in part on the integration of information technology, operations and personnel. These integration activities are complex and time-consuming and we may encounter unexpected difficulties or incur unexpected costs, including: · diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns to integration matters; · difficulties in consolidating and rationalizing information technology platforms and administrative infrastructures; · difficulties in integrating the Brooks and Eckerd store operations to serve the combined customer base of Rite Aid and the Brooks and Eckerd drugstore chains; · difficulties in converting the distribution centers; · difficulties in combining corporate cultures, maintaining associate morale and retaining key associates; and · challenges in demonstrating to our customers and to customers of the Brooks and Eckerd drugstore chains that the acquisition will not result in adverse changes in customer service standards or business focus. We expect to spend approximately $475 million of integration-related capital expenditures and to incur $205 million of integration-related non-recurring expenses during the 16-month integration period. If the anticipated benefits and synergies are not realized, or if the integration-related expenses and capital requirements are greater than anticipated, the anticipated accretive effect of the acquisition could be decreased or delayed, which could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. Moreover, the Brooks and Eckerd chains are not fully integrated with one another and in many instances operate using different systems. As a result, following the pending acquisition, we will be undertaking to integrate not one but two drugstore chains into our operations. Complications in integrating these two drugstore chains could increase our integration costs and make it more difficult to achieve a successful integration following the acquisition. We may not successfully integrate the operations of the Brooks and Eckerd drugstore chains in a timely manner and we may not realize the anticipated net reductions in costs and expenses and other benefits and synergies of the pending acquisition of the Brooks and Eckerd drugstore chains to the extent, or in the timeframe, anticipated. In addition to the integration risks discussed above, our ability to realize these net reductions in costs and expenses and other benefits and synergies could be adversely impacted by practical or legal constraints on our ability to combine operations. 20 Following the pending acquisition, for so long as Jean Coutu Group (and, subject to certain conditions, certain members of the Coutu family) maintain certain levels of Rite Aid stock ownership, Jean Coutu Group (and, subject to certain conditions, certain members of the Coutu family) will exercise significant influence over us. When the pending acquisition is completed, Jean Coutu Group will own approximately 30.2% of the voting power of Rite Aid. As a result, Jean Coutu Group (and, subject to certain conditions, certain members of the Coutu family) generally will have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of any matter submitted for the vote of Rite Aid stockholders. The stockholder agreement provides that Jean Coutu Group (and, subject to certain conditions, certain members of the Coutu family) will designate four of the fourteen members of the Rite Aid board of directors, subject to adjustment based on its ownership position in Rite Aid. Accordingly, Jean Coutu Group generally will be able to significantly influence the outcome of all matters that come before the Rite Aid board of directors. As a result of its significant interest in Rite Aid, Jean Coutu Group may have the power, subject to applicable law (including the fiduciary duties of the directors designated by Jean Coutu Group), to significantly influence actions that might be favorable to Jean Coutu Group, but not necessarily favorable to Rite Aid’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the ownership position and governance rights of Jean Coutu Group could discourage a third party from proposing a change of control or other strategic transaction concerning Rite Aid. As a result, the common stock of Rite Aid could trade at a price that does not reflect a “takeover premium” to the same extent as do the stocks of similarly situated companies that do not have a stockholder with an ownership interest as large as that of Jean Coutu Group. We will incur significant indebtedness in connection with the acquisition of the Brooks and Eckerd drugstore chains and the resulting debt service obligations may significantly limit our ability to execute our business strategy and increase the risk of default under our debt obligations. We intend to borrow approximately $2.4 billion in connection with our financing for the acquisition of the Brooks and Eckerd drugstore chains. It is a condition to the completion of the acquisition that we shall have received the proceeds of the financing in an amount sufficient to consummate the acquisition. Although we currently expect that such financing will be available on commercially reasonable terms, there can be no assurance of this. If we are unable to consummate a permanent debt financing, we may enter into a bridge facility of up to $1.72 billion that is likely to be on terms substantially more restrictive and is likely to be more costly than the terms of the contemplated financing. Following the completion of the acquisition, our ability to meet our cash requirements, including our debt service obligations, will be dependent upon our ability to substantially improve our operating performance, which will be subject to general economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are or may be beyond our control. In addition, some of these debt service obligations have interest payments that are subject to variable interest rates and are therefore dependent upon future interest rates which are beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations to fund these cash requirements and debt service obligations. If our operating results, cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates increase significantly, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt and other obligations. If we are unable to service our debt, we could be forced to reduce or delay planned expansions and capital expenditures, sell assets, restructure or refinance our debt or seek additional equity capital, and we may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms or in a timely manner. Further, any of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations or may have an adverse impact on our business. Our existing debt agreements limit our ability to take certain of these actions. Our failure to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay our debts or to successfully undertake any of these actions could have a material adverse effects on us. 21 In addition, the degree to which we may be leveraged as a result of the indebtedness incurred in connection with the acquisition or otherwise could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes, could make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions, could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes and opportunities in the markets in which we compete, could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to service our debt. The announcement and pendency of the pending acquisition may cause disruptions in the business of the Brooks and Eckerd drugstore chains, which could have an adverse effect on their business, financial condition or results of operations and, post-closing, our business, financial condition or results of operations. The announcement and pendency of the pending acquisition could cause disruptions of the business of the Brooks and Eckerd drugstore chains. Specifically: · certain vendors may change their programs or processes which might adversely affect the supply or cost of the products, which then might adversely affect Brooks and Eckerds’ stores sales or gross profit; · current and prospective associates of the Brooks and Eckerd drugstore chains may experience uncertainty about their future roles with Rite Aid, which might adversely affect the ability of the Brooks and Eckerd drugstore chains to attract and retain key personnel; and · current and prospective customers of the Brooks and Eckerd drugstore chains may experience uncertainty about the ability of the Brooks and Eckerd stores to meet their needs, which might cause customers to make purchases or fill their prescriptions elsewhere. These disruptions could be exacerbated by a delay in the completion of the pending acquisition and could have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Brooks and Eckerd drugstore chains prior to the completion of the pending acquisition and on Rite Aid following the completion of the pending acquisition. The pending acquisition is subject to the approvals from government entities that may not be received as well as certain closing conditions that may not be satisfied or waived. Failure to consummate the pending acquisition could have a material adverse effect on us. We cannot complete the pending acquisition unless we receive various consents, approvals and clearances from antitrust and other authorities in the United States. While we believe that we will receive the requisite approvals from these authorities, there can be no assurance of this. The stock purchase agreement we entered into with Jean Coutu Group contains numerous conditions to closing, the satisfaction or waiver of which are required to complete the pending acquisition. The conditions include, among others, the accuracy of our and Jean Coutu Group’s respective representations and warranties in the stock purchase agreement, as well as the performance in all material respects by us and the Jean Coutu Group of our and its respective obligations under the stock purchase agreement. There can be no assurance that the conditions required to consummate the pending acquisition will be satisfied or waived. If the pending acquisition is not consummated for any reason, we will have incurred substantial expenses without realizing the anticipated benefits of the pending acquisition, including anticipated net reductions in costs and expenses. We have incurred substantial legal, accounting and financial advisory fees and our management has devoted considerable time and effort in connection with the pending acquisition. 22 Conflicts of interest may arise between us and Jean Coutu Group, which may be resolved in a manner that adversely affects our business, financial condition or results of operations. After the pending acquisition, Jean Coutu Group will continue its Canadian operations but will no longer have any operations in the United States; we currently have no operations in Canada. Despite the lack of geographic overlap after the transaction, conflicts of interest may arise between us and Jean Coutu Group in areas relating to past, ongoing and future relationships, including corporate opportunities, potential acquisitions or financing transactions, sales or other dispositions by Jean Coutu Group of its interests in us and the exercise by Jean Coutu Group of its influence over our management and affairs. After the completion of the pending acquisition, a number of the directors on the Rite Aid board of directors will be persons who are also officers or directors of Jean Coutu Group or its subsidiaries. Service as a director or officer of both Rite Aid and Jean Coutu Group or its other subsidiaries could create conflicts of interest if such directors or officers are faced with decisions that could have materially different implications for Rite Aid and for Jean Coutu Group. Apart from the conflicts of interest policy contained in Rite Aid’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and applicable to Rite Aid directors, the parties have not established any formal procedures for Rite Aid and Jean Coutu Group to resolve potential or actual conflicts of interest between them. There can be no assurance that any of the foregoing conflicts will be resolved in a manner that does not adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Following the completion of the pending acquisition, we will be dependent on Jean Coutu Group for certain transitional services pursuant to a transition services agreement. The failure of Jean Coutu Group to perform its obligations under the transition services agreement could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to effectively monitor and control the operations of the Brooks and Eckerd drugstore chains we are acquiring depends to a large extent on the proper functioning of our information technology and business support systems. Following the completion of the acquisition, we will be initially dependent upon Jean Coutu Group to continue to provide certain information technology, network and support services to the Brooks and Eckerd stores for a period of time after the completion of the acquisition to facilitate the transition of the Brooks and Eckerd drugstore chains. The terms of these arrangements will be governed by a transition services agreement to be entered into as of the closing of the acquisition. Rite Aid and Jean Coutu Group are obligated to negotiate in good faith the transition services agreement. If, however, we fail to reach a satisfactory agreement with respect to certain services or Jean Coutu Group falls to perform its obligations under the transition services agreement, we may not be able to perform such services ourselves or obtain such services from third parties at all or on terms favorable to us. In addition, upon termination of the transition services agreement, if we are unable to develop the necessary systems, resources and controls necessary to allow us to provide the services currently being provided by Jean Coutu Group or to obtain such services from third parties, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Subject to certain limitations, Jean Coutu Group may sell Rite Aid common stock at any time following the completion of the acquisition of the Brooks and Eckerd drugstore chains, which could cause our stock price to decrease. The shares of Rite Aid common stock that Jean Coutu Group will receive following the completion of the acquisition of the Brooks and Eckerd drugstore chains are restricted, but Jean Coutu Group may sell these shares following the acquisition under certain circumstances, including pursuant to a registered underwritten public offering under the Securities Act or in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act. We have entered into a registration rights agreement with Jean Coutu Group, which will give Jean Coutu Group the right to require us to register all or a portion of its shares at any time. The sale of a 23 substantial number of our shares by Jean Coutu Group or our other stockholders within a short period of time could cause our stock price to decrease, make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of Rite Aid common stock or acquire other businesses using Rite Aid common stock as consideration. Upon successful completion of the pending acquisition, we will be able to issue more shares of our common stock than currently authorized. As a result, such future issuances of our common stock could have a dilutive effect on the earnings per share and voting power of current stockholders. The amendment to our restated certificate of incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of Rite Aid common stock has been approved by our stockholders. Therefore, upon completion of the acquisition, we will be able to issue more shares of our common stock than currently authorized. Current Rite Aid stockholders do not have preemptive rights with respect to our common stock. If the Rite Aid board of directors elects to issue additional shares of common stock in the future, whether in public offerings, in connection with mergers and acquisitions, or otherwise, such additional issuances could dilute the earnings per share and voting power of current stockholders. Additionally, the amendment to our restated certificate of incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of Rite Aid common stock, which will become effective upon completion of the pending acquisition, could have an anti-takeover effect under some circumstances. Item 1B. Unresolved SEC Staff Comments None 