Item 1A. Risk Factors If the planned merger with Kinross is not completed we may be subject to additional risks and incur additional costs We announced our merger with Kinross in October 2003 and signed the definitive agreement in November 2003. We have extended the termination date of the merger five times to December 31, 2006. We cannot provide any assurance that the merger will be completed prior to the termination date. The delay is primarily the result of difficulties encountered by Kinross regarding accounting and disclosure issues related to Kinross' allocation and subsequent impairment testing of goodwill and related deferred taxes thereon. As of March 1, 2006, Kinross has filed all of its required filings including revised accounting and disclosures regarding the goodwill and related deferred taxes. These filings are subject to regulatory review. The merger will not be consummated until this review is completed and Crown and Kinross file their 2005 annual financial statements with various regulatory agencies. Further delays are possible that could result in termination of the Kinross agreement, unless we and Kinross agree to another extension of the termination date. We can provide no assurance that the termination date will be extended, nor any assurance that if the termination date is extended, the merger will be completed. If the merger is not completed, Crown would be required to either find another company to merge with, attempt to sell or joint venture the Buckhorn Mountain Project, or move forward with development of the Buckhorn Mountain Project on its own. Any of these options would require additional capital and imply additional risks, detailed below. There can be no assurance that Crown would be able to pursue any of these alternatives. If Crown were to pursue these alternatives, it may not be successful in completing them. The termination or failure to complete the merger with Kinross could have a negative impact on our share price, our financial condition and results of operations. We have only one viable mining property, the Buckhorn Mountain Project, and failure to permit, develop, and mine the project would severely impact our operations. We intend to consummate the Merger with Kinross as planned, but can give no assurances that we will be successful in completing the Merger. In the event the Merger is not completed, we can give no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete the permitting process for the Buckhorn Mountain Project, or obtain adequate financing to allow us to develop and operate the Buckhorn Mountain Project and continue operations. Although we estimate we have adequate resources for our operations, including permitting of Buckhorn Mountain, through the first quarter of 2007, if the pending merger with Kinross is not completed, and we are unable to permit, develop and mine the Buckhorn Mountain Project on our own, we could not expect to operate with our existing resources or property which would negatively impact the market price of our stock and our future financial condition and results of operations. We have limited sources of financing and the inability to obtain financing when needed could significantly limit or prevent us from developing the Buckhorn Mountain Project. The capital required for the development of our Buckhorn Mountain Project is substantial. We have financed operations through the issuance of convertible debt instruments, utilization of joint venture arrangements with third parties (generally providing that the third party will obtain a specified percentage of our interest in a certain property in exchange for the expenditure of a specified amount), the sale of interests in properties or other assets, and the issuance of common stock. Assuming our pending merger with Kinross is not completed, we currently estimate we have adequate resources to fund our operations through the first quarter of 2007, unless Merger with Kinross is terminated and we make a decision to begin the development of the Buckhorn Mountain Project on our own, which would require additional financing. Failure to complete the pending merger with Kinross may cast doubt on our ability to obtain adequate fin ancing and could negatively impact the market price of our stock and our future financial condition and results of operations. Many companies in the mining industry have significantly greater resources than we do and we may not be able to compete in our industry or be favorably viewed by stock markets where we trade. A large number of companies are engaged in the exploration and development of mineral properties, many of which have substantially greater technical and financial resources than we do. Our common stock trades on the over the counter bulletin board and is not widely held or traded. Therefore, we may be at a disadvantage with respect to many of our competitors in the acquisition, exploration and development of mining properties and market valuation of the shares of our common stock. The exploration for and the development and marketing of minerals are affected by numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. Among these factors are the price of the raw or refined minerals in the marketplace, imports of minerals from other countries, the availability of adequate milling and smelting facilities, the price of fuel, the availability and the cost of labor, and the market price of competitive minerals. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to compete in exploration and development of mineral properties if the planned merger with Kinross is not completed. The disadvantages we face could negatively impact the market price of our stock and our future financial condition and results of operations. Since the announcement of the Kinross merger, the market price of our stock has traded almost exclusively in relation to Kinross' stock price over which we have no control. Since October 2003, the return on our shareholders' investment in our stock has been almost exclusively tied to Kinross' share price. We expect this to continue as long as we are subject to the planned merger agreement with Kinross. We have virtually no control over the factors that affect Kinross stock price. If Kinross stock price declines for any reason, this could negatively impact the market price of our stock. The ownership of our properties is based upon a complex set of legal titles, which are subject to uncertainties that may be challenged and could be determined to be deficient or invalid, which could adversely affect our ownership of the Buckhorn Mountain Project. Our domestic property consists, to a large extent, of patented mining claims as well as unpatented mining claims on unappropriated federal land pursuant to procedures established by the Mining Law of 1872 and other federal and state laws. These laws generally provide that a citizen of the United States (including corporations) may acquire a possessory right (i.e. unpatented mining claim) to develop and mine valuable mineral deposits discovered upon unappropriated federal lands, provided that such lands have not been withdrawn from mineral exploration, e.g., national parks, military reservations and lands designated as part of the National Wilderness Preservation System. These laws also provide for the location of unpatented millsite claims for the purpose of mining and milling minerals from valid mining claims. The validity of all unpatented mining claims is dependent upon inherent uncertainties and conditions. These uncertaint ies relate to such non-record facts as the sufficiency of the discovery of minerals, proper posting and marking of boundaries and possible conflicts with other claims not determinable from descriptions of record. Furthermore, the acquisition of unpatented millsite claims may be limited by several factors, which include the number of valid unpatented mining claims. Prior to discovery of a locatable mineral thereon, a mining claim may be open to location by others unless the owner is in possession of the claim. In the event that the discovery of a valuable mineral deposit is made on unpatented mining claims in the exploratory stage, we may not be able to assure clear title. The Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (the "1993 Act"), with subsequent amending acts, currently requires the holder of each existing unpatented mining claim to pay a "claim maintenance fee" of $125 per claim on or before August 31 of each year. To locate any new unpatented claims, we must pay the $155 per claim location fee on or before August 31 of each year. If we fail to pay a claim maintenance fee or a location fee as required by the 1993 Act, we conclusively forfeit the related unpatented claim. In connection with the acquisition of our properties, we have conducted limited reviews of title and related matters, and have obtained certain representations regarding ownership. We cannot assure you that we hold good and marketable title to all of our properties. Should the title to any of our properties be challenged or found to be invalid for any reason, this could negatively impact our ownership of all or a portion of the Buckhorn Mountain Project. Any degradation in the title to our Buckhorn Mountain Project could negatively impact the market price of our stock and our future financial condition and results of operation. Our operations could be negatively affected by existing as well as potential changes in laws and regulatory requirements that we are subject to, including regulation of mineral exploration and land ownership, environmental regulations and taxation. The development of the Buckhorn Mountain Project is subject to federal, state and local environmental regulations. All our reserves are situated on private land that we own with a portion of our proposed activities and mining claims situated on U.S. public lands. The United States Forest Service ("USFS") and Bureau of Land Management ("BLM") extensively regulate mining operations conducted on public lands and the Washington State Department of Ecology ("WDOE") regulates mining operations on private lands. Our operations involving the development of Buckhorn Mountain are subject to laws and regulations relating to exploration procedures, safety precautions, employee health and safety, air quality standards, pollution of stream and fresh water sources, impacts on ground and surface water flows, odor, noise, dust, and other environmental protection controls adopted by federal, state, and local governmental authorities as well as the rights of adjoining property owners and potential ancestral claims by native Americans. In addition, if the Kinross merger is not completed as planned, in order to conduct mining operations at the Buckhorn Mountain Project, we will be required to obtain performance bonds related to environmental permit compliance. These bonds may take the form of cash deposits or, if available, could be provided by outside insurance policies. We may be required to prepare and present data pertaining to the effect or impact that any proposed exploration or mining activity at Buckhorn Mountain may have upon the environment to federal, state, or local authorities. All requirements imposed by any such authorities may be costly and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations. Future legislation and regulations are expected to continue to emphasize the protection of the environment and, as a consequence, our activities may be more closely regulated to further the cause of environmental protection. Such legislation and regulations, as well as future interpretation of existing laws may result in substantial increases in our capital and operating costs and delays, interruptions, or a termination of operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted. Bills proposing major changes to the mining laws of the United States have been considered by Congress. If these bills, which may include royalty fees or net profits interests, are enacted in the future, they could have a significant effect on the ownership and operation of patented and unpatented mining claims in the United States including claims that we own or hold. Although it is not possible to predict whether or in what form Congress might enact changes to the mining laws, amendments to current laws and regulations governing operations and activities of mining companies or more stringent implementation thereof could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operation. Applicable laws and regulations require us to make certain capital and operating expenditures to maintain current operations and initiate new operations. Our estimates of expenditures required to comply with applicable regulations are included in all of our budgets for our projects. Although these costs are difficult to determine, we are not currently aware of any expenditure that is required in excess of budgeted amounts. We incur expenditures for land reclamation undertaken in the normal course of operations in compliance with federal and state land restoration laws and regulations. Adverse changes in environmental and other government regulations could have a material adverse effect on the price of our stock and our financial position or results of operations. The amount of taxes that the Buckhorn Mountain Project could be subject to is substantial and the potential increase in those taxes could negatively impact our operations. If the planned merger with Kinross is not completed, the Buckhorn Mountain Project is and may become subject to substantial taxes including, income taxes, state and local franchise taxes, personal property taxes, and state severance taxes levied by various governmental units where we operate. Washington State severance taxes are based on a percentage of the value of the mineral being extracted, and they vary from mineral to mineral. Taxes have historically increased and our operations may also be subject to increased taxation by each jurisdiction in which the Buckhorn Mountain Project is located, and we cannot predict what those increases may be. A substantial increase in taxes could have a material adverse effect on the price of our stock and our financial position or results of operations. The value of our Company is extremely dependent on gold and commodity prices over which we have no control. Our operations will be significantly affected by changes in the market price of gold and other commodities since the evaluation of the commercial viability of the Buckhorn Mountain Project is heavily dependent upon the market price of gold and to a lesser extent other commodities. The price of commodities also affects the value of exploration projects we own or may wish to acquire if the Kinross merger is not completed. These prices of commodities fluctuate on a daily basis and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control. The supply and demand for gold and other commodities, the level of interest rates, the rate of inflation, investment decisions by large holders of these commodities, including governmental reserves, and stability of exchange rates can all cause significant fluctuations in prices. Such external economic factors are in turn influenced by changes in international investment patterns and monetary syst ems and political developments. The prices of gold and other commodities have fluctuated widely and future serious price declines could have a material adverse effect on the price of our stock and our financial position or results of operations. Our business is dependent on key executives and the loss of any of our key executives could adversely affect our business, future operations and financial condition. We are dependent on the services of key executives, including our Chief Executive Officer, Christopher E. Herald, our Chief Financial Officer, James R. Maronick, and our Vice President of Operations, Walter H. Hunt. All of the above named officers have many years of experience and an extensive background in Crown, the mining industry in general and the Buckhorn Mountain Project. Each is also an officer of Solitario. We may not be able to replace that experience and knowledge with other individuals. Pursuant to a Management Agreement between Solitario and us, we are reimbursed for direct out-of-pocket expenses, payment of between 25% and 75% of executive and administrative salaries and benefits as well as other administrative costs. In the event that the Kinross transaction is not completed, we anticipate that we would continue to operate under the Management Agreement with Solitario. For more information regarding the Manag ement Agreement see "Related Party Transactions." We do not have key man life insurance policies on any of our executive officers. The loss of these persons or our inability to attract and retain additional highly skilled employees may adversely affect our business, future operations and financial condition. Occurrence of events for which we are not insured may require us to pay for losses for which we may not have adequate resources. These losses may be due to environmental liabilities, loss of property, death or injuries from activities incidental to our operations and other losses, which we cannot currently predict. Mineral exploration and development is subject to risks of human injury, environmental liability and loss of assets. We maintain insurance to protect ourselves against certain risks related to our operations, however, we may elect not to have insurance for certain risks because of the high premiums associated with insuring those risks or for various other reasons; in other cases, insurance may not be available for certain risks. We do not maintain insurance against political risk. Occurrence of events for which we are not insured could have a material adverse effect on stock price and our financial position or results of operations. We have a limited number of employees and do not currently have expertise in many areas related to mineral development. As of March 1, 2006, we employed seven persons. Although we consider our relations with employees to be excellent, there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain any of these employees. In addition, our employees are generally very specialized and we may not be able to attract and hire additional employees necessary to complete the development of the Buckhorn Mountain Project if the merger with Kinross is not completed. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. A portion of our employee's time is devoted to work under the management services contract with Solitario, which could lead to conflicts of interest. We have identified material weaknesses in disclosure controls and procedures and deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting that we may not be able to mitigate or entirely eliminate. As further discussed in Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation" and in Item 9A "Controls and Procedures," we have identified material weaknesses in disclosure controls and procedures and deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting. With our limited staff and resources we believe it may not be economically feasible to hire additional staff and or outside accounting and legal firms to mitigate or entirely eliminate all material weaknesses in disclosure controls and procedures or all deficiencies in internal controls over financial reporting. The continued existence of these weaknesses and deficiencies may cause our financial information to be materially misstated as reported and, if so determined, could require us to restate financial information in the future. The potential misstatement of our reported financial information as well as the potential restatem ent of our reported financial information could have a negative impact on the market price of our stock and our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 