Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information and risks set forth in this report. Volatility in the global economy could adversely affect our business and operating results. Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have experienced extreme disruption in the past, including, among other things, volatility in securities prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuation of others, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. These conditions have had a significant adverse impact on our industry and financial condition and results of operations. Further changes in the global economy could lead to challenges in our business and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. A tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in orders and spending for our products and services. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of any disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions and the effects they may have on our business and financial condition. Uncertain economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because our business depends on the amount that manufacturers of microelectronics spend on capital equipment, downturns in the microelectronics industry may adversely affect our business and operating results. The microelectronics industry experiences periodic downturns, which may have a negative effect on our business and our sales and other operating results. Our business depends on the amounts that manufacturers of microelectronics spend on capital equipment. The amounts they spend on capital equipment depend on the existing and expected demand for semiconductor devices and products that use semiconductor devices. When a downturn occurs, some semiconductor manufacturers experience lower demand and increased pricing pressure for their products. As a result, they are likely to purchase less semiconductor processing equipment and have sometimes delayed making decisions to purchase capital equipment. In some cases, semiconductor manufacturers have canceled or delayed orders for our products. Historically, the semiconductor equipment industry has experienced more pronounced decreases in net sales than the semiconductor industry as a whole. We have in the past experienced downturns in orders for new equipment as well as delays in or cancellations of existing orders. We cannot predict the extent and length of any future softening in the industry. 10 Table of Contents We have, and expect to continue to have, significant working capital needs. We have and expect to continue to have substantial capital expenditure and working capital needs. We do not have any revolving line of credit or other form of debt financing. In the future, if more cash is needed to fund operations than expected, we encounter unanticipated problems or expenses in our business, or we decide to make an investment in, or acquire, businesses, products or technologies, we may need to take additional cash-generating actions. Such actions may include the establishment of a financing facility or the sale of equity or debt securities. Depending on market conditions, it could be difficult for us to raise the additional cash needed without incurring significant dilution to our existing shareholders or agreeing to significant restrictions on our ability to operate as currently planned. Our actual results may vary from the guidance we provide investors, which could cause our stock price to decline and subject us to lawsuits from investors. We provide earnings guidance from time to time. For a variety of reasons, our results of operations are difficult to predict and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our ability to achieve forecasted results depends on a number of factors, including our assumptions regarding future performance, many of which are entirely outside of our control. Due to the uncertainties relating to assumptions that management makes in calculating our expected financial results, actual results may vary from the guidance we provide investors and may vary materially. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our earnings guidance. In addition, because we provide earnings guidance from time to time, our common stock may be subject to increased volatility and we may be subject to lawsuits by investors. Our stock price may decline following an announcement of disappointing earnings or earnings guidance or if we revise our earnings guidance downward as the estimates and assumptions we make in calculating guidance become more certain. Also, some companies that have made downward revisions to their earnings guidance or did not meet the guidance provided have been subject to lawsuits by investors. Such lawsuits may have merit and result in adverse settlements or judgments. Even if such lawsuits are dismissed or have no merit, they may be costly and may divert management attention and other resources away from our business, which could harm our business and the price of our common stock. We have incurred significant net losses in the past, our future revenues are inherently unpredictable, and we may be unable to maintain profitability. We have incurred significant net losses in the past. Our operating results for future periods are subject to numerous uncertainties, and we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain profitability. It is possible that in future quarters our operating results will decrease from the previous quarter or fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, the trading price of our common stock could significantly decline. Further, exacerbated or continuing declines in net income or increases in net losses could affect our operating results, liquidity or financial condition. The current economic environment and the fact that we derive a significant percentage of our quarterly revenues from bookings received during the quarter and from shipments made in the final weeks of the quarter make our quarterly revenues difficult to predict. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are affected, both positively and negatively, by fluctuations in general economic conditions and in the specific economic conditions affecting the semiconductor industry. Although we believe overall conditions in the worldwide economy and financial markets in general, and in the semiconductor industry in particular, have improved recently, our visibility continues to be limited and forecasting remains extremely difficult. We derive a significant percentage of our quarterly revenues from bookings received during the quarter and from shipments made in the final weeks of the quarter, making quarterly revenues difficult to predict. We generate a significant percentage of our quarterly revenues from orders received during the quarter and “turned” for shipment within the quarter. Any shortfall in expected “turns” orders will adversely affect quarterly revenues. There are many factors that can cause a shortfall in turns orders, including declines in general economic conditions or the businesses of our customers. In addition, we sometimes book a disproportionately large percentage of turns orders during the final weeks of the quarter. 11 Table of Contents Any failure to receive, or delay in receiving, expected turns orders would adversely (and perhaps materially) affect quarterly revenues. We sometimes ship a disproportionately large percentage of our quarterly revenues during the final weeks of the quarter, and any delays in making those shipments are more likely to cause them to slip into the following quarter. Any failure to effect scheduled shipments by the end of a quarter would adversely affect quarterly revenues. We derive our revenues primarily from a relatively small number of high-priced systems, sales of which significantly affect our quarterly operating results. System sales constitute a significant portion of our total revenue. Our systems are priced from approximately $500,000 to up to $5 million per unit, and our revenues in any given quarter are dependent upon a rather limited number of such systems. As a result, the inability to recognize revenue on even a few systems can cause a significant adverse impact on our revenues for that quarter. We have a limited number of key customers, which may subject us to unpredictable revenue swings. Sales to a limited number of large customers constitute a significant portion of our overall revenue, new orders and profitability. As a result, the actions of even one customer may subject us to revenue swings that are difficult to predict. Similarly, significant portions of our credit risk may, at any given time, be concentrated among a limited number of customers, so that the failure of even one of these key customers to pay its obligations to us could significantly impact our cash flow and operating results. Failure of our products to gain market acceptance would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We believe that our growth prospects depend upon our ability to gain customer acceptance of our products and technology, particularly newly developed products, such as our ORION® Single Wafer Cleaning System. Market acceptance of products depends upon numerous factors, including: • compatibility with existing manufacturing processes and products; • ability to displace incumbent suppliers or processes or tools of record; • perceived advantages over competing products; and • the level of customer service available to support such products. Moreover, manufacturers often rely on a limited number of equipment vendors to meet their manufacturing equipment needs. As a result, market acceptance of our products may be affected adversely to the extent potential customers utilize a competitor’s manufacturing equipment. There can be no assurance that sales of new products will remain constant or grow or that we will be successful in obtaining broad market acceptance of our systems and technology. We expect to spend a significant amount of time and resources to develop new systems and enhance existing systems. In light of the long product development cycles inherent in our industry, we will make these expenditures well in advance of the prospect of deriving revenue from the sale of any new systems. Our ability to commercially introduce and successfully market any new systems is subject to a wide variety of challenges during this development cycle, including start-up bugs, design defects and other matters that could delay introduction of these systems to the marketplace. In addition, since our customers are not obligated by long-term contracts to purchase our systems, our anticipated product orders may not materialize or orders that do materialize may be canceled. As a result, if we do not achieve market acceptance of new products, we may not be able to realize sufficient sales of our systems in order to recoup research and development expenditures. The failure of any of our new products, for example the ORION®, to achieve market acceptance would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents If we do not continue to develop new products and processes, we will not be able to compete effectively. Our business and results of operations could decline if we do not develop and successfully introduce new or improved products and processes that the market accepts. The technology used in microelectronics manufacturing equipment and processes changes rapidly. For example, the industry has started to shift towards single wafer processes from batch processes. If this trend occurs more rapidly than anticipated, it could negatively impact our operating results. Industry standards change constantly and equipment manufacturers frequently introduce new products and processes. We believe that microelectronics manufacturers increasingly rely on equipment manufacturers like us to: • design and develop more efficient manufacturing equipment; • design and implement improved processes for microelectronics manufacturers to use; and • make their equipment compatible with equipment made by other equipment manufacturers. To compete, we must continue to develop, manufacture, and market new or improved products and processes that meet changing industry standards. To do this successfully, we must: • select appropriate products; • design and develop our products efficiently and quickly; • implement our manufacturing and assembly processes efficiently and on time; • make products that perform well for our customers; • market and sell our products effectively; and • introduce our new products in a way that does not unexpectedly reduce sales of our existing products. Because we do not have long-term sales commitments with our customers, our operating results will be adversely affected if customers decide to reduce, delay or cancel orders or choose to buy from our competitors. We depend and expect to continue to depend on a limited number of customers for a large portion of our business, and if our significant customers reduce, delay, or cancel orders, then our operating results could suffer. Our largest customers have changed from year to year, however, sales to our top five customers accounted for approximately 63% of total revenues in fiscal 2010, 55% of total revenues in fiscal 2009 and 51% of total revenues in fiscal 2008. Samsung Electronics accounted for approximately 32% of our total revenues in fiscal 2010, approximately 34% of our total revenues in fiscal 2009 and 19% of our total revenues in fiscal 2008. Hynix accounted for approximately 11% of our total revenues in fiscal 2010. ST Microelectronics accounted for approximately 12% of our total revenues in fiscal 2008. We currently have no long-term sales commitments with any of our customers. Instead, we generally make sales under purchase orders. All orders are subject to cancellation or delay by the customer. Our licensing practices related to international spare parts sales may subject us to fines and could reduce our ability to be competitive in certain countries. In addition to offering our customers microelectronics manufacturing equipment, we provide replacement spare parts, spare part kits and assemblies. In late calendar 2006, we determined that certain of our replacement valves, pumps and heaters could fall within the scope of United States export licensing regulations to products that could be used in connection with chemical weapons processes. We determined that these regulations require us to obtain licenses to ship some of our replacement spare parts, spare part kits and assemblies to customers in certain controlled countries as defined in the export licensing regulations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2007, we were granted licenses to ship replacement spare parts, spare parts kits and assemblies to all customers in the controlled countries where we currently conduct business. The applicable export licensing regulations frequently change. Moreover, the types and categories of products that are subject to export licensing are often described in the regulations in general terms and could 13 Table of Contents be subject to differing interpretations. If we do not maintain the appropriate export licenses, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected and we could be subjected to significant fines. In the second quarter of fiscal 2007, we made a voluntary disclosure to the United States Department of Commerce to clarify our licensing practices and to review our practices with respect to prior sales of certain replacement valves, pumps and heaters to customers in several controlled countries as defined in the licensing regulations. In October 2009, we entered into a settlement agreement with the Office of Export Enforcement, for $450,000. We paid $5,000 per month for ten months beginning in November 2009. The remaining $400,000 owed under the settlement was suspended for 12 months. The 12-month suspension period expired October 29, 2010, and we expect to be released from further payments, including the suspended $400,000. Product or process development problems could harm our results of operations. Our products are complex, and from time to time have defects or bugs that are difficult and costly to fix. This can harm our results of operations in the following ways: • we may incur substantial costs to ensure the functionality and reliability of products early in their life cycle; • repeated defects or bugs can reduce orders, increase manufacturing costs, adversely impact working capital and increase service and warranty expenses; • we may require significant lead times between product introduction and commercialization; • harm our credibility with existing customers; and • lead to commercial and/or product liability as a result of lawsuits. As a result, we may have to write off inventory and other assets related to products and could lose customers and revenue. There is no assurance that we will be successful in preventing product and process development problems that could potentially harm our results of operations. If the worsening of credit market conditions continues or increases, it could have a material adverse impact on our investment portfolio. The short-term funding credit issues that began during the second half of calendar 2007 continue to impact liquidity in asset-backed commercial paper and to cause failed auctions in the auction rate securities market. If the global credit market continues to deteriorate, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some of our investments are impaired. This could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our investment portfolio includes auction rate securities (“ARS”). The ARS we currently hold have contractual maturities between 25 to 33 years. ARS are usually found in the form of municipal bonds, preferred stock, a pool of student loans or collateralized debt obligations. The interest rates of our ARS are reset every 28 days through an auction process and at the end of each reset period, investors can sell or continue to hold the securities at par. The $3.8 million par value ARS we hold are backed by student loans and are collateralized, insured and guaranteed by the United States Federal Department of Education. In addition, all ARS held by us are rated by the major independent rating agencies and carry investment grade ratings and have not experienced any payment defaults. Beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2008, all of our ARS experienced failed auctions due to sell orders exceeding buy orders. Under the contractual terms, the issuer is obligated to pay penalty interest rates should an auction fail. We cannot liquidate our ARS until a successful auction occurs, the issuer redeems the ARS, a buyer is found outside of the auction process or the underlying securities have matured. 14 Table of Contents There is no assurance that future auctions of our ARS will be successful. As a result, our ability to voluntarily liquidate and recover the carrying value of some or all of the ARS we hold may be limited for an indefinite period of time. If an issuer of our ARS is unable to successfully close future auctions or does not redeem the ARS, or the United States government fails to support its guaranty of the obligations, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of the ARS and record additional impairment charges in future periods, which could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in demand caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may reduce our international sales. Almost all of our direct international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. Nonetheless, changes in demand caused by fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates may affect our international sales. We have direct sales, service and applications support and logistics responsibilities for our products in Europe and the Asia Pacific region, and accordingly, we incur labor, service and other expenses in foreign currencies. As of August 28, 2010, we had not entered into any hedging activities and our foreign currency transaction gains and losses for fiscal 2010 were insignificant. We intend to evaluate various hedging activities and other options to minimize fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. There is no assurance that we will be successful in minimizing foreign exchange rate risks and such failure may reduce our international sales or negatively impact our operating results. Because of the need to meet and comply with numerous foreign regulations and policies, the potential for change in the political and economic environments in foreign jurisdictions and the difficulty of managing business overseas, we may not be able to sustain our historical level of international sales. We operate in a global market. In fiscal 2010, approximately 64% of our sales revenue derived from sales outside of the United States. In fiscal 2009, approximately 71% of our sales revenue derived from sales outside the United States. In fiscal 2008, approximately 76% of our sales revenue derived from sales outside the United States. We expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of total sales.* Sales to customers outside the United States involve a number of risks, including the following: • imposition of government controls; • compliance with U.S. export laws and foreign laws; • political and economic instability; • trade restrictions; • changes in taxes and tariffs; • longer payment cycles; • difficulty of administering business overseas; and • general economic conditions. In particular, the Japanese and Asia Pacific markets are extremely competitive. The semiconductor device manufacturers located in these markets are very aggressive in seeking price concessions from suppliers, including equipment manufacturers like us. We seek to meet technical standards imposed by foreign regulatory bodies. However, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to comply with those standards in the future. Any failure by us to design products to comply with foreign standards could have a significant negative impact on us. 15 Table of Contents Because of the significant financial resources needed to offer a broad range of products, to maintain customer service and support and to invest in research and development, we may be unable to compete with larger, better established competitors. The microelectronics equipment industry is highly competitive. We face substantial competition throughout the world. We believe that to remain competitive, we will need significant financial resources to offer a broad range of products, to maintain customer service and support, and to invest in research and development. We believe that the microelectronics industry is becoming increasingly dominated by large manufacturers who have the resources to support customers on a worldwide basis. In the past several years, we have seen a trend toward consolidation in the microelectronics equipment industry. We expect the trend toward consolidation to continue as companies seek to strengthen or maintain their market positions in a rapidly changing industry. This could lead to larger, stronger competitors. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, and customer-support capabilities than us. Large equipment manufacturers have or may enter the market areas in which we compete. In addition, smaller, emerging microelectronics equipment companies provide innovative technology. We expect that our competitors will continue to improve the design and performance of their existing products and processes. We also expect them to introduce new products and processes with better performance and pricing. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to compete effectively in the United States or elsewhere. We may be unable to continue to invest in marketing, research and development and engineering at the levels we believe necessary to maintain our competitive position. Our failure to make these investments could have a significant negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Manufacturing interruptions or delays could affect our ability to meet customer demand, while the failure to estimate customer demand accurately could result in excess or obsolete inventory. Our business depends on our ability to supply equipment, services and related products that meet the rapidly changing requirements of our customers, which depends in part on the timely delivery of parts, components and subassemblies (collectively, parts) from suppliers. Some key parts may be subject to long lead-times and/or obtainable only from a single supplier or limited group of suppliers. Significant interruptions of manufacturing operations or the delivery of services could result in delayed deliveries to our customers, manufacturing inefficiencies, increased costs or order cancellations as a result of: • the failure or inability of suppliers to timely deliver quality parts; • volatility in the availability and cost of materials; • difficulties or delays in obtaining required export approvals; • information technology or infrastructure failures; • difficulties related to planning or effecting business process changes; • natural disasters (such as earthquakes, floods or storms); or • other causes (such as regional economic downturns, pandemics, political instability, terrorism or acts of war). Moreover, if actual demand for our products is different than expected, we may purchase more/fewer parts than necessary or incur costs for canceling, postponing or expediting delivery of parts. Any or all of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our backlog may not result in future net sales. We schedule the production of our systems based in part upon order backlog. Due to possible customer changes in delivery schedules and cancellations of orders, our backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. In addition, while we evaluate each customer order on a case by case basis to determine qualification for inclusion in backlog, there can be no assurance that amounts 16 Table of Contents included in backlog ultimately will result in future sales. A reduction in backlog during any particular period, or the failure of our backlog to result in future sales, could harm our business and operating results. Because we depend upon our management and technical personnel for our success, the loss of key personnel could place us at a competitive disadvantage. Our success depends to a significant extent upon our management and technical personnel. The loss of a number of these key persons could have a negative effect on our operations. Competition is high for such personnel in our industry in all of our locations. We periodically review our compensation and benefit packages to ensure that they are competitive in the marketplace and make adjustments or implement new programs for that purpose, as appropriate. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to attract and retain the personnel we require. Our employment costs in the short-term are to a large extent fixed, and therefore any unexpected revenue shortfall could adversely affect our operating results. Our operating expense levels are based in significant part on our headcount, which generally is driven by longer-term revenue goals. For a variety of reasons, particularly the high cost and disruption of lay-offs and the costs of recruiting and training, our headcount in the short-term is, to a large extent, fixed. Accordingly, we may be unable to reduce employment costs in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenue or gross margin, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Because the development and protection of our intellectual property is important to our success, the loss or diminution of our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, and other measures. However, we believe that our financial performance will depend more upon the innovation, technological expertise, and marketing abilities of our employees than on such protection. In connection with our intellectual property rights, we face the following risks: • our pending patent applications may not be issued or may be issued with more narrow claims; • patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented; • rights granted under issued patents may not provide competitive advantages to us; • foreign laws may not protect our intellectual property rights; and • others may independently develop similar products, duplicate our products, or design around our patents. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we occasionally receive notices from others alleging infringement claims, and we also consider seeking claims against others. We have been involved in patent infringement litigation in the past and we could become involved in similar lawsuits or other patent infringement claims in the future. We cannot guarantee the outcome of such lawsuits or claims, which may have a significant negative effect on our business or operating results. We are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims. We have in the past and may in the future be involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, intellectual property rights, contracts and other matters. These legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to prosecute or defend, and could divert management’s attention and resources. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of future legal proceedings or claims. If we are not able to resolve a claim, negotiate a settlement of the matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms and/or successfully prosecute or defend its position, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents There has and continues to be substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the microelectronics industry. Commercialization of new products or further commercialization of our products could provoke claims of infringement by third parties. In the future, litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us, to protect trade secrets or know-how owned by us or to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our effort, which alone could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Further, adverse determinations in such litigation could result in our loss of proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties or prevent us from manufacturing or selling one or more products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We generate minor amounts of liquid and solid hazardous waste and use licensed haulers and disposal facilities to ship and dispose of such waste. In the past, we have received notice from state or federal enforcement agencies that we are a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) in connection with the investigation of several hazardous waste disposal sites owned and operated by third parties. In each matter, we have elected to participate in settlement offers made to all de minimis parties with respect to such sites. The risk of being named a PRP is that if any of the other PRPs are unable to contribute their proportionate share of the liability, if any, associated with the site, those PRPs that are financially able could be held financially responsible for the shortfall. Certain of our product lines are intended for use with hazardous chemicals. As a result, we are notified by our customers from time to time of incidents involving our equipment that have resulted in a spill or release of a hazardous chemical. We maintain product liability insurance in an effort to minimize our risk. However, in some cases it may be alleged that we or our equipment are at fault. There can be no assurance that any future litigation resulting from such claims would not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial results. Our sales cycle is long and unpredictable, which could require us to incur high sales and marketing expenses with no assurance that a sale will result. Sales cycles for some of our products can run as long as 12 to 18 months. As a result, we may not recognize revenue from efforts to sell particular products for extended periods of time. We believe that the length of the sales cycle may increase as some current and potential customers centralize purchasing decisions into one decision-making entity. We expect this may intensify the evaluation process and require us to make additional sales and marketing expenditures with no assurance that a sale will result. We may raise additional capital in the future through the issuance of equity securities, which may result in dilution to existing shareholders. In order to expand our business, we may consider offering and issuing additional equity or equity-based securities. Holders of our securities may experience a dilution in the net tangible book value per share held by them and a reduction in their percentage of ownership if this occurs. Future acquisitions may dilute our shareholders’ ownership interests and have other adverse consequences. Because of consolidations in the semiconductor equipment industry we serve and other competitive factors, our management may seek to acquire additional product lines, technologies, and businesses if suitable opportunities develop. Acquisitions may result in the issuance of our stock, which may dilute our shareholders’ ownership interests and reduce earnings per share. Acquisitions also may increase debt levels and the related goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition and operating results. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in absorbing the new business, product line, or technology; 18 Table of Contents • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • entering new markets in which we have little or no experience; and • possible loss of key employees of the acquired business. Because of the volatility of our stock price, the ability to trade shares of our common stock may be adversely affected and our ability to raise capital through future equity financing may be reduced. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and may continue to be so in the future. In fiscal 2010, our stock price ranged from $0.83 to $5.17 per share. In fiscal 2009, our stock price ranged from $0.20 to $1.21 per share and in fiscal 2008, our stock price ranged from $1.08 to $2.73 per share. The trading price of our common shares is subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, factors discussed elsewhere in this report, and the following: • failure to meet the published expectations of securities analysts for a given period; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • press releases or announcements by, or changes in market values of, comparable companies; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • involvement in or adverse results from litigation. The prices of technology stocks, including ours, have been particularly affected by extreme fluctuations in price and volume in the stock market generally. These broad stock market fluctuations may have a negative effect on our future stock price. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. In the future we could be the target of this type of litigation. Securities litigation may result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business. Our common stock is at risk for delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market. If it is delisted, our stock price and the liquidity of our common stock may be impacted. While our stock price has exceeded $1.00 per share during fiscal 2010, our stock price traded below $1.00 during fiscal 2009. If, in the future, the bid price falls below $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days, we could receive notice from the NASDAQ Global Market stating that the bid price of our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion on the NASDAQ Global Market under Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4). Under NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(8)(D), we would then have 180 calendar days to regain compliance. If at any time after receiving the notice, the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, the NASDAQ Global Market would notify us that we have achieved compliance with the minimum bid price rule. However, if we did not regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule within the 180 calendar days, the NASDAQ Global Market would determine whether we met the initial listing criteria for the NASDAQ Global Market other than the bid price requirement. If we met such criteria, we would be afforded an additional 180 calendar days in order to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule. If we fail to meet NASDAQ’s maintenance criteria, our common stock will be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. If we fail to maintain the standards necessary to be quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market and our common stock is delisted, trading in our common stock would be conducted on the NASDAQ Capital Market or other available market, provided we meet the standards of such market. Our stock price, as well as the liquidity of our common stock, may be adversely impacted as a result. 19 Table of Contents Because our quarterly operating results are volatile, our stock price could fluctuate. In the past, our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations may have a significant impact on our stock price. The reasons for the fluctuations in our operating results, such as sales, gross profits, and net loss, include: • The Timing of Significant Customer Orders and Customer Spending Patterns. During industry downturns, our customers may ask us to delay or even cancel the shipment of equipment orders. Delays and cancellations may adversely affect our operating results in any particular quarter if we are unable to recognize revenue for particular sales in the quarter in which we expected those sales. • The Timing of Customer Acceptances. Based on our revenue recognition policy, certain shipments to customers are not recognized until customer acceptance. Delays of customer acceptances may adversely affect our operating results in any particular quarter if we are unable to recognize revenue for particular sales in the quarter in which we expected those sales. • The Timing of New Product and Service Announcements By Us or Our Competitors. New product announcements by us or our competitors could cause our customers to delay a purchase or to decide to purchase products of one of our competitors which would adversely affect our revenue and, therefore, our results of operations. New product announcements by others may make it necessary for us to reduce prices on our products or offer more service options, which could adversely impact operating margins and net income. • The Mix of Products Sold and the Market Acceptance of Our New Product Lines. The mix of products we sell varies from period to period, and because margins vary among or within different product lines, this can adversely affect our results of operations. If we fail to sell products that generate higher margins, our average gross margins may be lower than expected. If we fail to sell our new product lines, our revenue may be lower than expected. • General Global Economic Conditions or Economic Conditions in a Particular Region. When economic conditions in a region or worldwide worsen, customers may delay or cancel their orders. There also may be an increase in the time it takes to collect payment from our customers or even outright payment defaults. This can negatively affect our cash flow and our results. As a result of these factors, our future operating results are difficult to predict. Further, we base our current and future expense plans in significant part on our expectations of our longer-term future revenue. We expect our expense levels to be relatively fixed in the short term. An unanticipated decline in revenue for a particular quarter may disproportionately affect our net income in that quarter. If our revenue is below our projections, then our operating results will also be below expectations. Any one of the factors we list above, or a combination of them, could adversely affect our quarterly results of operations, and consequently may cause a decline in our stock price. Our restated articles of incorporation, as amended, our restated by-laws and Minnesota law make a takeover of our company more difficult and expensive, which may prevent certain changes in control and limit the market price of our common stock. Our restated articles of incorporation, as amended, our restated by-laws and Minnesota law make a takeover of our company more difficult and expensive, which may prevent certain changes in control and limit the market price of our common stock. Our restated articles of incorporation, as amended, our restated by-laws and Section 302A.673 of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover of our company. Provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation, as amended, and restated by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our shareholders may consider favorable. For example, our authorized but unissued shares of common stock and preferred stock are available for future issuances without shareholder approval, subject to any limitations imposed by the NASDAQ Global Market. Our board of directors may set the rights, preferences and terms of new preferred stock, without shareholder approval. With these rights and preferences, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, our restated articles of incorporation, as 20 Table of Contents amended, provide for a staggered board of directors, with directors serving for three-year terms, with approximately one-third of the directors coming up for re-election each year. Having a staggered board will make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in any acquisition of us that is not favored by our board of directors. Our management has broad discretion in allocating any net proceeds from the sale of securities. We reserve the right to use any funds obtained from the sale of our securities in any manner which our management deems to be in our best interests and in the best interests of our shareholders in order to address changed circumstances or seek out new opportunities. As a result of the foregoing, our success will be substantially dependent upon the discretion and judgment of management with respect to the application and allocation of the net proceeds from any offering of our securities. Investors in any equity securities offered will be entrusting their funds to our management, upon whose judgment and discretion the investors must depend. We do not intend to pay dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth and, therefore, do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Item 1.B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have any unresolved staff comments. 