Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information and risks set forth in this report. If the economic environment does not improve in early fiscal 2010 and, notwithstanding our cash management initiatives, more cash is needed to fund operations than expected, we may need to take additional actions. In light of our financial condition, we implemented a number of cost reduction steps in fiscal 2009 to reduce our use of cash, as discussed in Note 17 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Our cost reduction actions in fiscal 2009 are expected to lower our annual operating expenses by $11 to $12 million, which is expected to reduce our cash flow breakeven revenue level to approximately $12 to $14 million per quarter, depending on the gross margins and the timing of shipments and accounts receivable collections.* In addition, we plan to manage cash flows by reducing capital expenditures to less than $500,000 in fiscal 2010 and to aggressively improve our working capital levels in the second half of fiscal 2010.* We believe that these actions will allow us to have sufficient cash to fund our operations through at least fiscal 2010.* We do not have any revolving line of credit or other form of debt financing. If the economic environment does not improve in early fiscal 2010 and, notwithstanding our cash management initiatives, more cash is needed to fund operations than expected, we may need to take additional actions.* These actions could include additional cost reduction measures and possible cash generating activities, including exploring a sale-leaseback arrangement for our Chaska, Minnesota facility, entering into an asset-based lending arrangement, borrowing up to $3.2 million against or liquidating our remaining life insurance investments of $3.5 million, borrowing up to 50% against or selling some or all of our currently illiquid auction rate securities (“ARS”), possibly at a loss, or selling additional equity.* We can provide no assurance that any of these cash-generating activities will be available to us when needed, or if available, on such terms that will be acceptable or in sufficient amounts to cover our operating expenses at such time. The sale of additional equity would likely result in 10 Table of Contents additional dilution to our shareholders.* In addition, without substantial available capital, we may be unable to take advantage of strategic opportunities as they arise, such as investments in or acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies.* If the worsening of credit market conditions continues or increases, it could have a material adverse impact on our investment portfolio. The current short-term funding credit issues that began to occur during the second half of calendar 2007, continue to impact liquidity in asset-backed commercial paper and to cause failed auctions in the auction rate market. If the global credit market continues to deteriorate, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some of our investments are impaired. This could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our investment portfolio includes ARS. The ARS we currently hold have contractual maturities between 26 to 34 years. ARS are usually found in the form of municipal bonds, preferred stock, a pool of student loans or collateralized debt obligations. The interest rates of our ARS are reset every 28 days through an auction process and at the end of each reset period, investors can sell or continue to hold the securities at par. The $4.7 million par value ARS we hold are backed by student loans and are collateralized, insured and guaranteed by the United States Federal Department of Education. In addition, all ARS held by us are rated by the major independent rating agencies and carry investment grade ratings and have not experienced any payment defaults. Beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2008, all of our ARS experienced failed auctions due to sell orders exceeding buy orders. Under the contractual terms, the issuer is obligated to pay penalty interest rates should an auction fail. We cannot liquidate our ARS until a successful auction occurs, the issuer redeems the ARS, a buyer is found outside of the auction process or the underlying securities have matured. We recorded an other than temporary impairment of approximately $0.4 million as of August 30, 2008 related to our ARS . During fiscal 2009, we redeemed $3.0 million par value of ARS for $3.0 million and we recorded a gain of $0.1 million, which reversed the previously recorded impairment related to these securities. There is no assurance that future auctions of our ARS will be successful. As a result, our ability to voluntarily liquidate and recover the carrying value of some or all of the ARS we hold may be limited for an indefinite period of time. If an issuer of our ARS is unable to successfully close future auctions or does not redeem the ARS, or the United States government fails to support its guaranty of the obligations, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of the ARS and record additional impairment charges in future periods, which could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. Because our business depends on the amount that manufacturers of microelectronics spend on capital equipment, downturns in the microelectronics industry may adversely affect our results. The microelectronics industry experiences periodic downturns, which may have a negative effect on our sales and operating results. Our business depends on the amounts that manufacturers of microelectronics spend on capital equipment. The amounts they spend on capital equipment depend on the existing and expected demand for semiconductor devices and products that use semiconductor devices. When a downturn occurs, some semiconductor manufacturers experience lower demand and increased pricing pressure for their products. As a result, they are likely to purchase less semiconductor processing equipment and have sometimes delayed making decisions to purchase capital equipment. In some cases, semiconductor manufacturers have canceled or delayed orders for our products. Typically, the semiconductor equipment industry has experienced more pronounced decreases in net sales than the semiconductor industry as a whole. Since early calendar 2007, we, along with others in the semiconductor equipment industry, have experienced a downturn in orders for new equipment as well as delays in existing orders, primarily from logic 11 Table of Contents and flash memory manufacturers. We cannot predict the extent and length of the current downturn in orders and the overall softening in the industry in these segments. In addition: • the semiconductor equipment industry may experience other, possibly more severe and prolonged, downturns in the future; • any future recovery of the microelectronics industry may not result in an increased demand by semiconductor manufacturers for capital equipment or our products; and • the semiconductor equipment industry may not improve in the near future or at all. Our licensing practices related to international spare parts sales may subject us to fines and could reduce our ability to be competitive in certain countries. In addition to offering our customers microelectronics manufacturing equipment, we provide replacement spare parts, spare part kits and assemblies. In late calendar 2006, we determined that certain of our replacement valves, pumps and heaters could fall within the scope of United States export licensing regulations to products that could be used in connection with chemical weapons processes. We determined that these regulations require us to obtain licenses to ship some of our replacement spare parts, spare part kits and assemblies to customers in certain controlled countries as defined in the export licensing regulations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2007, we were granted licenses to ship replacement spare parts, spare parts kits and assemblies to all customers in the controlled countries where we currently conduct business. The applicable export licensing regulations frequently change. Moreover, the types and categories of products that are subject to export licensing are often described in the regulations in general terms and could be subject to differing interpretations. In the second quarter of fiscal 2007, we made a voluntary disclosure to the United States Department of Commerce to clarify our licensing practices and to review our practices with respect to prior sales of certain replacement valves, pumps and heaters to customers in several controlled countries as defined in the licensing regulations. In October 2009, we entered into a settlement agreement with the Office of Export Enforcement for $450,000. We will pay $5,000 per month for ten months beginning in November 2009. The remaining $400,000 owed under the settlement will be suspended for 12 months. If we do not commit any export violations during the 12-month period, we will be released from further payment, including the suspended $400,000. Failure of our products to gain market acceptance would adversely affect our financial condition. We believe that our growth prospects depend upon our ability to gain customer acceptance of our products and technology, particularly newly developed products. Market acceptance of products depends upon numerous factors, including: • compatibility with existing manufacturing processes and products; • ability to displace incumbent suppliers or processes or tools of record; • perceived advantages over competing products; and • the level of customer service available to support such products. Moreover, manufacturers often rely on a limited number of equipment vendors to meet their manufacturing equipment needs. As a result, market acceptance of our products may be affected adversely to the extent potential customers utilize a competitor’s manufacturing equipment. There can be no assurance that sales of new products will remain constant or grow or that we will be successful in obtaining broad market acceptance of our systems and technology. We expect to spend a significant amount of time and resources to develop new systems and enhance existing systems. In light of the long product development cycles inherent in our industry, we will make these 12 Table of Contents expenditures well in advance of the prospect of deriving revenue from the sale of any new systems. Our ability to commercially introduce and successfully market any new systems is subject to a wide variety of challenges during this development cycle, including start-up bugs, design defects and other matters that could delay introduction of these systems to the marketplace. In addition, since our customers are not obligated by long-term contracts to purchase our systems, our anticipated product orders may not materialize or orders that do materialize may be canceled. As a result, if we do not achieve market acceptance of new products, we may not be able to realize sufficient sales of our systems in order to recoup research and development expenditures. The failure of any of our new products, for example the ORION®, to achieve market acceptance would harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations and cash flows. If we do not continue to develop new products and processes, we will not be able to compete effectively. Our business and results of operations could decline if we do not develop and successfully introduce new or improved products and processes that the market accepts. The technology used in microelectronics manufacturing equipment and processes changes rapidly. Industry standards change constantly and equipment manufacturers frequently introduce new products and processes. We believe that microelectronics manufacturers increasingly rely on equipment manufacturers like us to: • design and develop more efficient manufacturing equipment; • design and implement improved processes for microelectronics manufacturers to use; and • make their equipment compatible with equipment made by other equipment manufacturers. To compete, we must continue to develop, manufacture, and market new or improved products and processes that meet changing industry standards. To do this successfully, we must: • select appropriate products; • design and develop our products efficiently and quickly; • implement our manufacturing and assembly processes efficiently and on time; • make products that perform well for our customers; • market and sell our products effectively; and • introduce our new products in a way that does not unexpectedly reduce sales of our existing products. Product or process development problems could harm our results of operations. Our products are complex, and from time to time have defects or bugs that are difficult and costly to fix. This can harm our results of operations in the following ways: • we may incur substantial costs to ensure the functionality and reliability of products early in their life cycle; • repeated defects or bugs can reduce orders, increase manufacturing costs, adversely impact working capital and increase service and warranty expenses; and • we may require significant lead times between product introduction and commercialization. As a result, we may have to write off inventory and other assets related to products and could lose customers and revenue. There is no assurance that we will be successful in preventing product and process development problems that could potentially harm our results of operations. It may be difficult for us to compete with stronger competitors resulting from industry consolidation. In the past several years, we have seen a trend toward consolidation in the microelectronics equipment industry. We expect the trend toward consolidation to continue as companies seek to strengthen or maintain their market positions in a rapidly changing industry.* We believe that industry consolidations may result in 13 Table of Contents competitors that are better able to compete. This could have a significant negative impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Future acquisitions may dilute our shareholders’ ownership interests and have other adverse consequences. Because of consolidations in the semiconductor equipment industry we serve and other competitive factors, our management will seek to acquire additional product lines, technologies, and businesses if suitable opportunities develop. Acquisitions may result in the issuance of our stock, which may dilute our shareholders’ ownership interests and reduce earnings per share. Acquisitions also may increase debt levels and the related goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition and operating results. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in absorbing the new business, product line, or technology; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • entering new markets in which we have little or no experience; and • possible loss of key employees of the acquired business. Because of the volatility of our stock price, the ability to trade FSI shares may be adversely affected and our ability to raise capital through future equity financing may be reduced. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and may continue to be so in the future. In fiscal 2009, our stock price ranged from $0.20 to $1.21 per share. In fiscal 2008, our stock price ranged from $1.08 to $2.73 per share and in fiscal 2007, our stock price ranged from $2.13 to $6.90 per share. The trading price of our common shares is subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including factors discussed elsewhere in this report, and the following: • failure to meet the published expectations of securities analysts for a given period; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • press releases or announcements by, or changes in market values of, comparable companies; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • involvement in or adverse results from litigation. The prices of technology stocks, including ours, have been particularly affected by extreme fluctuations in price and volume in the stock market generally. These broad stock market fluctuations may have a negative effect on our future stock price. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. In the future we could be the target of this type of litigation. Securities litigation may result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business. Our common stock is at risk for delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market. If it is delisted, our stock price and the liquidity of our common stock may be impacted. While our stock price has recently exceeded $1.00 per share, our stock price has traded below $1.00 during fiscal 2009. If, in the future, the bid price falls below $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days, we could receive notice from the NASDAQ Global Market stating that the bid price of our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion on the NASDAQ Global Market under Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4). Under NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(8)(D), we would then have 180 calendar days to regain compliance. If at any time after receiving the notice, the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, the NASDAQ Global 14 Table of Contents Market would notify us that we have achieved compliance with the minimum bid price rule. However, if we did not regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule within the 180 calendar days, the NASDAQ Global Market would determine whether we met the initial listing criteria for the NASDAQ Capital Market other than the bid price requirement. If we met such criteria, we would be afforded an additional 180 calendar days in order to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule. If we fail to meet NASDAQ’s maintenance criteria, our common stock will be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. If we fail to maintain the standards necessary to be quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market and our common stock is delisted, trading in our common stock would be conducted on the NASDAQ Capital Market or other available market, provided we meet the standards of such market. Our stock price, as well as the liquidity of our common stock, may be adversely impacted as a result. Because our quarterly operating results are volatile, our stock price could fluctuate. In the past, our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations may have a significant impact on our stock price. The reasons for the fluctuations in our operating results, such as sales, gross profits, and net loss, include: • The Timing of Significant Customer Orders and Customer Spending Patterns. During industry downturns, our customers may ask us to delay or even cancel the shipment of equipment orders. Delays and cancellations may adversely affect our operating results in any particular quarter if we are unable to recognize revenue for particular sales in the quarter in which we expected those sales. • The Timing of Customer Acceptances. Based on our revenue recognition policy, certain shipments to customers are not recognized until customer acceptance. Delays of customer acceptances may adversely affect our operating results in any particular quarter if we are unable to recognize revenue for particular sales in the quarter in which we expected those sales. • The Timing of New Product and Service Announcements By Us or Our Competitors. New product announcements by us or our competitors could cause our customers to delay a purchase or to decide to purchase products of one of our competitors which would adversely affect our revenue and, therefore, our results of operations. New product announcements by others may make it necessary for us to reduce prices on our products or offer more service options, which could adversely impact operating margins and net income. • The Mix of Products Sold and the Market Acceptance of Our New Product Lines. The mix of products we sell varies from period to period, and because margins vary among or within different product lines, this can adversely affect our results of operations. If we fail to sell products that generate higher margins, our average gross margins may be lower than expected. If we fail to sell our new product lines, our revenue may be lower than expected. • General Global Economic Conditions or Economic Conditions in a Particular Region. When economic conditions in a region or worldwide worsen, customers may delay or cancel their orders. There also may be an increase in the time it takes to collect payment from our customers or even outright payment defaults. This can negatively affect our cash flow and our results. As a result of these factors, our future operating results are difficult to predict. Further, we base our current and future expense plans in significant part on our expectations of our longer-term future revenue. As a result, we expect our expense levels to be relatively fixed in the short-run. An unanticipated decline in revenue for a particular quarter may disproportionately affect our net income in that quarter. If our revenue is below our projections, then our operating results will also be below expectations. Any one of the factors we list above, or a combination of them, could adversely affect our quarterly results of operations, and consequently may cause a decline in our share price. 15 Table of Contents Changes in demand caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may reduce our international sales. Almost all of our direct international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. Nonetheless, changes in demand caused by fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates may affect our international sales. We have direct sales, service and applications support and logistics responsibilities for our products in Europe and the Asia Pacific region, and accordingly, we incur labor, service and other expenses in foreign currencies. As of August 29, 2009, we had not entered into any hedging activities and our foreign currency transaction gains and losses for fiscal 2009 were insignificant. We intend to evaluate various hedging activities and other options to minimize fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. There is no assurance that we will be successful in minimizing foreign exchange rate risks and such failure may reduce our international sales or negatively impact our operating results. Because of the need to meet and comply with numerous foreign regulations and policies, the potential for change in the political and economic environments in foreign jurisdictions and the difficulty of managing business overseas, we may not be able to sustain our historical level of international sales. We operate in a global market. In fiscal 2009, approximately 71% of our sales revenue derived from sales outside of the United States. In fiscal 2008, approximately 76% of our sales revenue derived from sales outside the United States. In fiscal 2007, approximately 69% of our sales revenue derived from sales outside the United States. We expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of total sales.* Sales to customers outside the United States involve a number of risks, including the following: • imposition of government controls; • compliance with U.S. export laws and foreign laws; • political and economic instability; • trade restrictions; • changes in taxes and tariffs; • longer payment cycles; • difficulty of administering business overseas; and • general economic conditions. In particular, the Japanese and Asia Pacific markets are extremely competitive. The semiconductor device manufacturers located in these markets are very aggressive in seeking price concessions from suppliers, including equipment manufacturers like us. We seek to meet technical standards imposed by foreign regulatory bodies. However, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to comply with those standards in the future. Any failure by us to design products to comply with foreign standards could have a significant negative impact on us. Because of the significant financial resources needed to offer a broad range of products, to maintain customer service and support and to invest in research and development, we may be unable to compete with larger, better established competitors. The microelectronics equipment industry is highly competitive. We face substantial competition throughout the world. We believe that to remain competitive, we will need significant financial resources to offer a broad range of products, to maintain customer service and support, and to invest in research and development. We believe that the microelectronics industry is becoming increasingly dominated by large manufacturers who have the resources to support customers on a worldwide basis. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, and customer-support capabilities than us. Large equipment manufacturers have or may enter the market areas in which we compete. In addition, smaller, emerging microelectronics equipment companies provide innovative technology. We expect that our competitors will continue to improve 16 Table of Contents the design and performance of their existing products and processes. We also expect them to introduce new products and processes with better performance and pricing. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to compete effectively in the United States or elsewhere. We may be unable to continue to invest in marketing, research and development and engineering at the levels we believe necessary to maintain our competitive position. Our failure to make these investments could have a significant negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Manufacturing interruptions or delays could affect our ability to meet customer demand, while the failure to estimate customer demand accurately could result in excess or obsolete inventory. Our business depends on our ability to supply equipment, services and related products that meet the rapidly changing requirements of our customers, which depends in part on the timely delivery of parts, components and subassemblies (collectively, parts) from suppliers. Some key parts may be subject to long lead-times and/or obtainable only from a single supplier or limited group of suppliers. Significant interruptions of manufacturing operations or the delivery of services could result in delayed deliveries to our customers, manufacturing inefficiencies, increased costs or order cancellations as a result of: • the failure or inability of suppliers to timely deliver quality parts; • volatility in the availability and cost of materials; • difficulties or delays in obtaining required export approvals; • information technology or infrastructure failures; • difficulties related to planning or effecting business process changes; • natural disasters (such as earthquakes, floods or storms); or • other causes (such as regional economic downturns, pandemics, political instability, terrorism or acts of war). Moreover, if actual demand for our products is different that expected, we may purchase more/fewer parts than necessary or incur costs for canceling, postponing or expediting delivery of parts. Any or all of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we do not have long-term sales commitments with our customers, our results will be adversely affected if customers decide to reduce, delay or cancel orders or choose to deal with our competitors. If our significant customers reduce, delay, or cancel orders, then our operating results could suffer. Our largest customers have changed from year to year, however, sales to our top five customers accounted for approximately 55% of total revenues in fiscal 2009, 51% of total revenues in fiscal 2008 and 42% of total revenues in fiscal 2007. Samsung Electronics accounted for approximately 34% of our total sales in fiscal 2009, 19% of our total sales in fiscal 2008 and 13% of our total sales in fiscal 2007. ST Microelectronics accounted for approximately 12% of our total sales in fiscal 2008. Intel Corporation accounted for approximately 11% of our total sales in fiscal 2007. We currently have no long-term sales commitments with any of our customers. Instead, we generally make sales under purchase orders. All orders are subject to cancellation or delay by the customer. Our backlog may not result in future net sales. We schedule the production of our systems based in part upon order backlog. Due to possible customer changes in delivery schedules and cancellations of orders, our backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. In addition, while we evaluate each customer order on a case by case basis to determine qualification for inclusion in backlog, there can be no assurance that amounts included in backlog ultimately will result in future sales. A reduction in backlog during any particular period, or the failure of our backlog to result in future sales, could harm our business. 17 Table of Contents Because we depend upon our management and technical personnel for our success, the loss of key personnel could place us at a competitive disadvantage. Our success depends to a significant extent upon our management and technical personnel. The loss of a number of these key persons could have a negative effect on our operations. Competition is high for such personnel in our industry in all of our locations. We periodically review our compensation and benefit packages to ensure that they are competitive in the marketplace and make adjustments or implement new programs for that purpose, as appropriate. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to attract and retain the personnel we require. Our employment costs in the short-term are to a large extent fixed, and therefore any unexpected revenue shortfall could adversely affect our operating results. Our operating expense levels are based in significant part on our headcount, which generally is driven by longer-term revenue goals. For a variety of reasons, particularly the high cost and disruption of lay-offs and the costs of recruiting and training, our headcount in the short-term is, to a large extent, fixed. Accordingly, we may be unable to reduce employment costs in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue or gross margin shortfall, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Because our intellectual property is important to our success, the loss or diminution of our intellectual property rights through legal challenge by others or from independent development by others, could adversely affect our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, and other measures. However, we believe that our financial performance will depend more upon the innovation, technological expertise, and marketing abilities of our employees than on such protection. In connection with our intellectual property rights, we face the following risks: • our pending patent applications may not be issued or may be issued with more narrow claims; • patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented; • rights granted under issued patents may not provide competitive advantages to us; • foreign laws may not protect our intellectual property rights; and • others may independently develop similar products, duplicate our products, or design around our patents. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we occasionally receive notices from others alleging infringement claims. We have been involved in patent infringement litigation in the past and we could become involved in similar lawsuits or other patent infringement claims in the future. We cannot guarantee the outcome of such lawsuits or claims, which may have a significant negative effect on our business or operating results. We are currently exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims. We have in the past and may in the future be involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, intellectual property rights, contracts and other matters. These legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to prosecute or defend, and could divert management’s attention and resources. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of future legal proceedings or claims. If we are not able to resolve a claim, negotiate a settlement of the matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms and/or successfully prosecute or defend its position, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We generate minor amounts of liquid and solid hazardous waste and use licensed haulers and disposal facilities to ship and dispose of such waste. In the past, we have received notice from state or federal enforcement agencies that we are a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) in connection with the investigation 18 Table of Contents of several hazardous waste disposal sites owned and operated by third parties. In each matter, we have elected to participate in settlement offers made to all de minimis parties with respect to such sites. The risk of being named a PRP is that if any of the other PRPs are unable to contribute their proportionate share of the liability, if any, associated with the site, those PRPs that are financially able could be held financially responsible for the shortfall. There has and continues to be substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the microelectronics industry. Commercialization of new products or further commercialization of our current products could provoke claims of infringement by third parties. In the future, litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us, to protect trade secrets or know-how owned by us or to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our effort, which alone could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Further, adverse determinations in such litigation could result in our loss of proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties or prevent us from manufacturing or selling one or more products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our product lines are intended for use with hazardous chemicals. As a result, we are notified by our customers from time to time of incidents involving our equipment that have resulted in a spill or release of a hazardous chemical. We maintain product liability insurance in an effort to minimize our risk. However, in some cases it may be alleged that we or our equipment are at fault. There can be no assurance that any future litigation resulting from such claims would not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial results. Our sales cycle is long and unpredictable, which could require us to incur high sales and marketing expenses with no assurance that a sale will result. Sales cycles for some of our products can run as long as 12 to 18 months. As a result, we may not recognize revenue from efforts to sell particular products for extended periods of time. We believe that the length of the sales cycle may increase as some current and potential customers centralize purchasing decisions into one decision-making entity. We expect this may intensify the evaluation process and require us to make additional sales and marketing expenditures with no assurance that a sale will result. We do not intend to pay dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth and, therefore, do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Item 1.B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have any unresolved staff comments. 