ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and elsewhere, that are forward-looking involve risks and uncertainties which may affect the Company’s actual results of operations. Certain of these risks and uncertainties which have affected and, in the future, could affect the Company’s actual results are discussed below. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made due to new information or future events. Investors are cautioned not to place undue emphasis on these statements. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluation of the Company’s business and any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and elsewhere. Any of the following risks or others discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or the Company’s other SEC filings, could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. The Company’s future growth is dependent on the development of new products in a rapidly changing technological environment. A major element of the Company’s growth strategy is to increase revenues through new product releases. As a result, the Company must anticipate industry trends and develop products in advance of customer needs. New product development requires planning, designing and testing at both technological and manufacturing-process levels and may require significant research and development expenditures. There can be no assurance that any products now in development, or that the Company may seek to develop in the future, will achieve feasibility or gain market acceptance. There can also be no assurance that the Company’s competitors will not succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective than any which have been or are being developed by the Company or that would render the Company’s technologies and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Changes in economic conditions could negatively impact the Company’s revenues and earnings. The Company’s biotechnology products are sold primarily to research scientists at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and at university and government research institutions. Research and development spending by the Company’s customers and the availability of government research funding can fluctuate based on spending priorities and general economic conditions. An economic downturn or a reduction or delay in governmental funding could cause customers to delay or forego purchases of the Company’s products. The Company carries essentially no backlog of orders and changes in the level of orders received and filled daily can cause fluctuations in quarterly revenues and earnings. The biotechnology and hematology industries are very competitive. The Company faces significant competition across all of its product line and in each market in which it operates. Competitors include companies ranging from start-up companies, who may be able to more quickly respond to customers’ needs, to large multinational companies, which may have greater financial and marketing resources than the Company. In addition consolidation trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have served to create fewer customer accounts and/or to concentrate purchasing decisions for some customers, resulting in increased pricing pressure on the Company. The entry into the market of manufacturers in China and other low-cost manufacturing locations is also creating increased pricing pressures, particularly in developing markets. Failure to anticipate and respond to competitors’ actions may impact the Company’s future sales and earnings. The Company relies heavily on internal manufacturing and related operations to produce, package and distribute its products. The Company manufactures the majority of the products it sells at its Minneapolis facility. Quality control, packaging and distribution operations support all of the Company’s sales. Any significant disruption of these operations for any reason could adversely affect sales and customer relationships, and therefore adversely affect the business. While the Company has taken certain steps to manage these operational risks, and while insurance coverage may reimburse, in whole or in part, for losses related to such disruptions, the Company’s ability to provide products in the longer term could adversely affect future sales growth and earnings. The design and manufacture of products involves certain inherent risks. Manufacturing or design defects could lead to recalls, litigation or alerts relating to the Company’s products. A recall could result in significant costs and damage to the Company’s reputation which could reduce demand for its products. The Company is significantly dependent on sales made through foreign subsidiaries which are subject to changes in exchange rates. Approximately 30% of the Company’s sales are made through its foreign subsidiaries, which make their sales in foreign currencies. The Company’s revenues and earnings are, therefore, affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Any adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect the Company’s revenues and earnings. The Company may be unsuccessful in integrating Boston Biochem and Tocris into its operations. The actual financial results of Boston Biochem and Tocris could differ from the Company’s forecasts, effecting the Company’s future sales and net earnings. If the integrations of the acquired businesses are not successful, the Company may record unexpected impairment charges. Factors that will affect the success of the acquisitions include any decrease in customer loyalty caused by dissatisfaction with the combined companies’ product lines or its sales and marketing practices, including price increases, the ability to retain key employees and the ability of the Company to achieve synergies among its subsidiary companies. Such synergies include leveraging the combined companies’ sales and marketing efforts, achieving certain cost savings and effectively combining technologies to develop new products. 10 Table of Contents The Company’s success will be dependent on recruiting and retaining highly qualified personnel. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific, production and management personnel are critical to the Company’s success. The Company’s anticipated growth and its expected expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise will require the addition of new personnel and the development of additional expertise by existing personnel. The failure to attract and retain such personnel could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s business is subject to governmental laws and regulation. The Company’s operations are subject to regulation by various U.S. federal, state and international agencies. Laws and regulations enacted and enforced by these agencies impact all aspects of the Company’s operations including design, development, manufacturing, labeling, selling and the importing and exporting of products across international borders. Any changes to laws and regulations governing such activities could have an effect on the Company’s operations. If the Company fails to comply with any of these regulations, it may become subject to fines, penalties or actions that could impact development, manufacturing and distribution and/or increase costs or reduce sales. The approval process applicable to clinical diagnostic products of the type that may be developed by the Company may take a year or more. Delays in obtaining approvals could adversely affect the marketing of new products developed by the Company, and negatively affect the Company’s revenues. As a multinational corporation, the Company is subject to the tax laws and regulations of the U.S. federal, state and local governments and of several international jurisdictions. From time to time, new tax legislation may be implemented, which could adversely affect current or future tax filings or negatively impact the Company’s effective tax rate and thus increase future tax payments. The Company is dependent on maintaining its intellectual property rights. The Company’s success will depend, in part, on its ability to obtain licenses and patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. The Company has obtained and continues to negotiate licenses to produce a number of products claimed to be owned by others. Since the Company has not conducted a patent infringement study for each of its products, it is possible that products of the Company may unintentionally infringe patents of third parties or that the Company may have to alter its products or processes, pay licensing fees or cease certain activities because of patent rights of third parties, thereby causing additional unexpected costs and delays which may have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company is exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market values of its investment portfolio. The Company has investments in marketable debt securities that are classified and accounted for as available-for-sale. These securities include U.S. government and agency securities, foreign government and agency securities, corporate debt securities and certificates of deposit. These investments may experience reduced liquidity due to changes in market conditions and investor demand. Although the Company has not recognized any significant losses to date on its available-for-sale securities, any significant future declines in their market values could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. Given the global nature of its business, the Company has investments both domestically and internationally. Credit ratings and pricing of these investments can be negatively impacted by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, financial results, or other factors. As a result, the value or liquidity of the Company’s available-for-sale investments could decline and result in a material impairment, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. The Company may incur losses as a result of its investments in other companies, the success of which is largely out of the Company’s control. The Company’s expansion strategies include collaborations, investments in joint ventures and companies developing new products related to the Company’s business, and the acquisition of businesses for new products, technologies and additional customer base. These strategies carry risks that objectives will not be achieved and future earnings will be adversely affected. Development stage companies of the type the Company has invested in are dependent on their ability to raise additional funds to continue research and development efforts and on receiving patent protection and/or FDA clearance to market their products. The Company uses the equity method of accounting for certain of these investments and records a percentage of the losses of these companies as losses of the Company. The Company may not have control of the expense levels of such companies and their losses may be greater than those anticipated by the Company. Additionally, if funding were unavailable or inadequate to fund operations of these companies or if patent protection or FDA clearance were not received by them, the Company may determine that its investment in one or more of these unconsolidated companies is “other than temporarily” impaired, and the Company could write off all or a portion of its investment. 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments as of the date of this report. 