RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluation the Company's business and any forward-looking statements made in this Report and elsewhere. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect the Company's business, operating results and financial condition. The Company's biotechnology products are sold primarily to research scientists at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and at university and government research institutions. Changes in spending on research by such companies and in funding of such universities and institutions by government, including the National Institutes of Health, affects the revenues and earnings of the Company. The Company carries essentially no backlog of orders and changes in the level of orders received and filled daily can cause fluctuations in quarterly revenues and earnings. Approximately one quarter of the Company's sales are made through its European subsidiary, R&D Systems Europe, which makes its sales in foreign currencies. The Company's revenues and earnings are, therefore, affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. The biotechnology industry is subject to rapid and significant technological change. While the hematology controls industry historically has been less subject to rapid change, it too is evolving and is impacted significantly by changes in the automated testing equipment offered by instrument manufacturers. Competitors of the Company are numerous and include, among others, specialized biotechnology firms, medical laboratory instrument and equipment manufacturers and disposables suppliers, major pharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. There can be no assurance that the Company's competitors will not succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective than any which have been or are being developed by the Company or that would render the Company's technologies and products obsolete or noncompetitive. The Company's success will depend, in part, on its ability to obtain licenses and patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. The Company has obtained and is negotiating licenses to produce a number of cytokines and related products claimed to be owned by others. Since the Company has not conducted a patent infringement study for each of its products, it is possible that products of the Company may unintentionally infringe patents of third parties or that the Company may have to alter its products or processes, pay licensing fees or cease certain activities because of patent rights of third parties, thereby causing additional unexpected costs and delays which may have a material adverse effect on the Company. 11 The Company's expansion strategies, which include internal development of new products, collaborations, investments in joint ventures and companies developing new products related to the Company's business, and the acquisition of companies for new products and additional customer base, carry risks that objectives will not be achieved and future earnings will be adversely affected. Under the equity method of accounting, a percentage of the losses of certain companies in which the Company invests will be reported as losses of the Company. The Company may not have control of the expense levels of such companies and their losses may be greater than those anticipated by the Company. Additionally, if the Company determines that its investment in such companies is "other than temporarily" impaired, the Company may write off its entire investment in such company. Ongoing research and development activities and the production and marketing of certain of the Company's products are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. The approval process applicable to clinical diagnostic products of the type that may be developed by the Company may take a year or more. Delays in obtaining approvals could adversely affect the marketing of new products developed by the Company. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and production personnel to perform research and development work and product manufacturing are critical to the Company's success. The Company's anticipated growth and its expected expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise will require the addition of new personnel and the development of additional expertise by existing personnel. The failure to attract and retain such personnel could adversely affect the Company's business. INVESTOR INFORMATION The Company is subject to the information requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). Therefore, the Company files periodic reports, proxy statements, and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Such reports, proxy statements, and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Financial and other information about the Company is available on its internet site (http://www.techne-corp.com). The Company makes available on its internet site, copies of its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. 12 