ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and elsewhere, that are forward-looking involve risks and uncertainties which may affect the Company's actual results of operations. Certain of these risks and uncertainties which have affected and, in the future, could affect the Company's actual results are discussed below. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made due to new information or future events. Investors are cautioned not to place undue emphasis on these statements. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluation of the Company's business and any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and elsewhere. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect the Company's business, operating results and financial condition. Our revenues are significantly dependent on sales to research scientists in the private and public sector, and a decrease in research spending could negatively impact our revenues. The Company's biotechnology products are sold primarily to research scientists at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and at university and government research institutions. Changes in spending on research by such companies and in the funding that such universities and institutions receive from government agencies, including the National Institutes of Health, affects the revenues and earnings of the Company. The Company carries essentially no backlog of orders and changes in the level of orders received and filled daily can cause fluctuations in quarterly revenues and earnings. We operate in rapidly changing and intensely competitive industries, and may not be able to keep pace with our competitors. The biotechnology industry is subject to rapid and significant technological change. While the hematology controls industry historically has been less subject to rapid change, it too is evolving and is impacted significantly by changes in the automated testing equipment offered by instrument manufacturers. Competitors of the Company are numerous and include, among others, specialized biotechnology firms, medical laboratory instrument and equipment manufacturers and disposables suppliers, major pharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. There can be no assurance that the Company's competitors will not succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective than any which have been or are being developed by the Company or that would render the Company's technologies and products obsolete or noncompetitive. We are significantly dependent on sales made through foreign subsidiaries, and our revenues could be negatively impacted by changes in exchange rates. Approximately 31% of the Company's sales are made through its foreign subsidiaries, which make their sales in foreign currencies. The Company's revenues and earnings are, therefore, affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Our business is subject to governmental regulation, which may have the effect of delaying or impeding the release of certain of our products. Ongoing research and development activities and the production and marketing of certain of the Company's products are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. The approval process applicable to clinical diagnostic products of the type that may be developed by the Company may take a year or more. Delays in obtaining approvals could adversely affect the marketing of new products developed by the Company. 10 We are dependent on maintaining our intellectual property rights, and cannot guarantee that we will not be subject to intellectual property litigation in the future. The Company's success will depend, in part, on its ability to obtain licenses and patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. The Company has obtained and is negotiating licenses to produce a number of cytokines and related products claimed to be owned by others. Since the Company has not conducted a patent infringement study for each of its products, it is possible that products of the Company may unintentionally infringe patents of third parties or that the Company may have to alter its products or processes, pay licensing fees or cease certain activities because of patent rights of third parties, thereby causing additional unexpected costs and delays which may have a material adverse effect on the Company. Our success will be dependent on recruiting and retaining highly qualified personnel, the loss of whom could adversely affect our operations. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and production personnel to perform research and development work and product manufacturing are critical to the Company's success. The Company's anticipated growth and its expected expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise will require the addition of new personnel and the development of additional expertise by existing personnel. The failure to attract and retain such personnel could adversely affect the Company's business. We may incur losses as a result of our investments in other companies, the success of which is largely out of our control. The Company's expansion strategies, which include internal development of new products, collaborations, investments in joint ventures and companies developing new products related to the Company's business, and the acquisition of companies for new products and additional customer base, carry risks that objectives will not be achieved and future earnings will be adversely affected. Under the equity method of accounting, a percentage of the losses of certain companies in which the Company invests will be reported as losses of the Company. The Company may not have control of the expense levels of such companies and their losses may be greater than those anticipated by the Company. Additionally, if the Company determines that its investment in unconsolidated companies is "other than temporarily" impaired, the Company may write off its entire investment in such company. We may be unsuccessful in expanding into China and establishing adequate distribution channels for our products in China. The Company recently established a subsidiary in China to provide warehousing, marketing, sales and technical services for the growing Chinese market. The Company's ability to recover its investment is dependent upon its ability to retain current third-party distributors in China and expand its market share in the region. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments as of the date of this report. 11 