D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to us Since our loan portfolio is highly concentrated in Spain, adverse changes affecting the Spanish economy could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We historically have developed our lending business in Spain, which continues to be our main place of business. As of December 31, 2006, business activity in Spain accounted for 70.2% of our loan portfolio. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Selected Statistical Information—Loans by Geographic Area”. Any adverse changes affecting the Spanish economy are likely to have a significant adverse impact on our loan portfolio and, as a result, on our financial condition and results of operations. A substantial percentage of our customer base is particularly sensitive to adverse developments in the economy, which renders our lending activities relatively riskier than if we lent primarily to higher-income customer segments. Medium- and small-size companies and middle- and lower-middle- income individuals typically have less financial strength than large companies and high-income individuals and accordingly can be expected to be more negatively affected by adverse developments in the economy. As a result, it is generally accepted that lending to these segments of our existing and targeted customer base represents a relatively higher degree of risk than lending to other groups. A substantial portion of our loan portfolio consists of residential mortgages and consumer loans to middle- and lower-middle-income customers and commercial loans to medium- and small-size companies. Consequently, during periods of slowdown in economic activity we may experience higher levels of past due amounts which could result in higher levels of allowance for loan losses. We cannot assure you that we will not suffer substantial adverse effects on our base loan portfolio to these customer segments in the event of adverse developments in the economy. Increased exposure to real estate in Spain makes us more vulnerable to developments in this market. The sound economic growth, the strength of the labor market and a decrease in interest rates in Spain have caused an increase in the demand for mortgage loans in the last few years. This has had repercussions in housing prices, which have also risen significantly. As residential mortgages are one of our main assets, comprising 26%, 27% and 26% of our loan portfolio at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, we are currently highly exposed to developments in real estate markets. We expect the worsening financial conditions in Spain to cause a gradual adjustment process in the Spanish real estate sector, after several years of price increases. In addition, a strong increase in interest rates or unemployment in Spain might have a significant negative impact in mortgage payment delinquency rates. An increase in such delinquency rates could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Highly-indebted households and corporations could endanger our asset quality and future revenues. Spanish households and firms have reached, in recent years, a high level of indebtedness, which represents increased risk for the Spanish banking system. The increase of loans referenced to variable interest rates makes debt service on such loans more vulnerable to changes in interest rates than in the past. In fact, the debt burden of the Spanish households on disposable income has increased substantially from 12.5% in 2003 to 16.4% in 2006. The increase in households’ and firms’ indebtedness also limits their ability to incur additional debt, decreasing the number of new products we may otherwise be able to sell them. A sudden shortage of funds could cause an increase in our costs of funding and an adverse effect on our operating revenues. Historically, one of our principal sources of funds has been savings and demand deposits. Time deposits represented 23.3%, 25.4% and 27.6% of our total funding at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Large-denomination time deposits may, under some circumstances, such as during periods of significant changes in market interest rates for these types of deposit products and resulting increased competition for such funds, be a less stable source of deposits than savings and demand deposits. In addition, 7 Table of Contents since we rely heavily on short-term deposits for our funding, we cannot assure you that, in the event of a sudden or unexpected shortage of funds in the banking systems or money markets in which we operate, we will be able to maintain our current levels of funding without incurring higher funding costs or having to liquidate certain of our assets. We face increasing competition in our business lines. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Financial sector reforms in the markets in which we operate have increased competition among both local and foreign financial institutions, and we believe that this trend will continue. For example, the adoption of the euro as the common currency throughout the EU is making it easier for European banks to compete against us in Spain. In addition, the trend towards consolidation in the banking industry has created larger and stronger banks with which we must now compete. This is particularly the case of the consumer credit market, where foreign entrants are operating in the segment of small credits to subprime households. We also face competition from non-bank competitors, such as: • department stores (for some credit products); • leasing companies; • factoring companies; • mutual funds; • pension funds; and • insurance companies. We cannot assure you that this competition will not adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is particularly vulnerable to volatility in interest rates. Our results of operations are substantially dependent upon the level of our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from interest-earning assets and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including deregulation of the financial sectors in the markets in which we operate, monetary policies pursued by the EU and national governments, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors. Changes in market interest rates could affect the spread between interest rates charged on interest-earning assets and interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities and thereby negatively affect our results of operations. For example, an increase in interest rates could cause our interest expense on deposits to increase more significantly and quickly than our interest income from loans, resulting in a reduction in our net interest income. In addition, income from treasury operations is particularly vulnerable to interest rate volatility. Since approximately 75% of our loan portfolio consists of variable interest rate loans maturing in more than one year, rising interest rates may also bring about an increase in the non-performing loan portfolio. Our financial statements and periodic disclosure under securities laws may not give you the same information as financial statements prepared under U.S. accounting rules and periodic disclosures provided by domestic U.S. issuers. Publicly available information about public companies in Spain is generally less detailed and not as frequently updated as the information that is regularly published by or about listed companies in the United States. In addition, although we are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), the periodic disclosure required of foreign issuers under the Exchange Act is more limited than the periodic disclosure required of U.S. issuers. Finally, we maintain our financial accounts and records and prepare our financial statements in conformity EU-IFRS, which differs in certain respects from U.S. GAAP, the financial reporting standard to which many investors in the United States may be more accustomed. See Note 62 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for the presentation of our stockholders’ equity and net income reconciled to U.S. GAAP. 8 Table of Contents BBVA may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the proposed transaction to acquire Compass. The success of the proposed transaction to acquire Compass will depend, in part, on BBVA’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of BBVA and Compass. However, to realize these anticipated benefits, BBVA and Compass must successfully combine their businesses, which are currently principally conducted in different countries by management and employees coming from different cultural backgrounds. If BBVA is not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the transaction may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. BBVA and Compass have operated and, until the completion of the proposed transaction, will continue to operate, independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the ability of BBVA and Compass to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the transaction. Integration efforts between the two companies will also divert management attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on each of Compass and BBVA during the transition period and on the combined company following completion of the transaction. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Mexico and the United States”. Risks Relating to Latin America Political events in Mexico could adversely affect our operations, given that approximately 37% of our income attributed to the Group is generated in Mexico. The Mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Mexican economy. Mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and state-owned enterprises could have a significant effect on Mexican private sector entities in general, and on our Mexican subsidiaries in particular. Mexico’s presidential elections were held on July 2, 2006. Felipe Calderon’s victory was confirmed by the Federal courts on September 5, 2006, and Calderon took office on December 1, 2006, but the election results were contested by Andres Manuel López Obrador and his party, the Democratic Revolutionary Party, which alleged irregularities in over 30% of the country’s polling stations, sought a vote recount, unsuccessfully appealed the results of the election and staged street protests. The uncertainty caused by the election could result in political and economic instability and social unrest, which could adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of our Mexican subsidiaries. Moreover, the new administration could implement significant changes in laws, public policies and government programs, which could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of our Mexican subsidiaries. Our Latin American subsidiaries’ growth, asset quality and profitability may be affected by volatile macroeconomic conditions, including government default on public debt, in the Latin American countries where they operate. The Latin American countries in which we operate have experienced significant economic volatility in recent decades, characterized by slow growth, declining investment and significant inflation. This volatility has resulted in fluctuations in the levels of deposits and in the relative economic strength of various segments of the economies to which we lend. Negative and fluctuating economic conditions, such as a changing interest rate environment, also affect our profitability by causing lending margins to decrease and leading to decreased demand for higher-margin products and services. The results of several recent electoral processes entail an increased risk of greater state intervention in the domestic economy, especially in Bolivia and Venezuela. Negative and fluctuating economic conditions in some Latin American countries could result in government defaults on public debt. This could affect us in two ways: directly, through portfolio losses, and indirectly, through instabilities that a default in public debt could cause to the banking system as a whole, particularly since commercial banks’ exposure to government debt is generally high in several Latin American countries in which we operate. While we seek to mitigate these risks through what we believe to be conservative risk policies, no assurance can be given that our Latin American subsidiaries’ growth, asset quality and profitability will not be affected by volatile macroeconomic conditions in the Latin American countries in which we operate. 9 Table of Contents Latin American economies can be directly and negatively affected by adverse developments in other countries. Financial and securities markets in Latin American countries in which we operate, are to varying degrees, influenced by economic and market conditions in other countries in Latin America and beyond. Negative developments in the economy or securities markets in one country, particularly in an emerging market, may have a negative impact on other emerging market economies. These developments may adversely affect the business, financial condition and operating results of our subsidiaries in Latin America. We are exposed to foreign exchange and, in some instances, political risks as well as other risks in the Latin American countries in which we operate, which could cause an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate commercial banks in 10 Latin American countries and our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing economic, social and political conditions. We are confronted with different legal and regulatory requirements in many of the jurisdictions in which we operate. These include, but are not limited to, different tax regimes and laws relating to the repatriation of funds or nationalization of assets. Our international operations may also expose us to risks and challenges which our local competitors may not be required to face, such as exchange rate risk, difficulty in managing a local entity from abroad, and political risk which may be particular to foreign investors. Our expansion in these markets requires us to respond to rapid changes in market conditions in these countries. We cannot assure you that we will continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each country in which we operate or that any of the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory changes in Latin America that are beyond our control may have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A number of banking regulations designed to maintain the safety and soundness of banks and limit their exposure to risk are applicable in certain Latin American countries in which we operate. Local regulations differ in a number of material respects from equivalent regulations in Spain and the United States. Changes in regulations that are beyond our control may have a material effect on our business and operations, particularly in Venezuela. In addition, since some of the banking laws and regulations have been recently adopted, the manner in which those laws and related regulations are applied to the operations of financial institutions is still evolving. No assurance can be given that laws or regulations will be enforced or interpreted in a manner that will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Other Countries Our strategic growth in Asia exposes us to increased regulatory, economic and geopolitical risk relating to emerging markets in the region, particularly in China. Strategic growth in Asia, particularly China, continued in 2006. The BBVA Group formed a strategic alliance with the CITIC Group, in which we committed to invest €501 million to purchase 5% of China Citic Bank (“CNCB”) as well as €488 million to purchase 15% of Citic International Financial Holdings (“CIFH”) as of December 31, 2006. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Wholesale Businesses”. As a result of our expansion into Asia, we are exposed to increased risks relating to emerging markets in the region, particularly in China. The Chinese government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Chinese economy. Chinese governmental actions concerning the economy and state-owned enterprises could have a significant effect on Chinese private sector entities in general, and on CNCB or CIFH in particular. We also are exposed to regulatory uncertainty and geopolitical risk as a result of our investments in Asia. Changes in laws or regulations or in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations, whether caused by a change in government or otherwise, could adversely affect our investments. Moreover, Asian economies can be directly and negatively affected by adverse developments in other countries in the region and beyond. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our investments in Asia or the business, financial condition and operating results of the Group. Our continued expansion in the United States increases our exposure to the U.S. market. The Group’s expansion continued in the United States in 2006 with the acquisition of Texas Regional Bancshares, Inc. (“Texas Regional Bancshares”) (for $2,141 million (approximately €1,674 million) in November 2006) and State National Bancshares, Inc. (“State National Bancshares”) (for $484 million (approximately €368 million), which closed in January 2007). These purchases, together with Laredo National Bank, Inc. (“LNB”) (acquired in 2005), have nearly tripled our presence in the United States in the past two years. In addition, we recently announced our proposed acquisition of Compass, which, if consummated, will substantially increase our presence in the United States. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Mexico and the United States” and “Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company—Capital Expenditures”. Our expansion in the United States makes us more vulnerable to developments in this market, particularly the real estate market. The sound economic growth, the strength of the labor market and a decrease in interest rates in the United States have caused an increase in the demand for mortgage loans in the last few years. This has had repercussions in housing prices, which have also risen significantly. As we have acquired entities in the United States, our exposure to the U.S. real estate market has increased, and this will increase further if the proposed acquisition of Compass is consummated. If there were a significant downturn in the U.S. economy in general, or the real estate market in particular, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 