1A. Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Business. These risks and uncertainties are beyond the ability of the Company to control, and, in many cases, the Company cannot predict all of the risks and uncertainties that could cause its actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements. When used in this report, the words "believes," "estimates," "plans," "expects," "anticipates" and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or its management are intended to identify forward-looking statements. - 2 - PART I Item 1. Business General TOR Minerals International, Inc. ("TOR", "we", "us", "our" or the "Company") is a global specialty chemical company engaged in the business of manufacturing and marketing mineral products for use as pigments, pigment extenders and flame retardants used in the manufacture of paints, industrial coatings, plastics, catalysts and solid surface applications. We were organized by Benilite Corporation of America ("Benilite") in 1973. Benilite, which was incorporated in Delaware in 1969, developed the then patented "Benilite process" for producing synthetic rutile ("SR"), the principal ingredient used in the manufacture of HITOX® (high-grade titanium dioxide), from ilmenite ore. Benilite licensed and helped design several synthetic rutile plants located throughout the world which utilize this process (including the plant located in Ipoh, Malaysia, owned by the Company, as discussed below). Benilite concluded that synthetic rutile produced by the Benilite process could be further processed into a buff-colored titanium dioxide pigment having many of the characteristics of standard white titanium dioxide at a significant cost savings. These efforts by Benilite were the beginning of the Company's business. In 1980, the subsidiary of Benilite engaged in the development of HITOX was spun off by Benilite to its shareholders. In December 1988, the Company became a publicly owned company after completing a public offering of 1.38 million shares of its common stock. Our stock symbol is TORM. Going Concern The consolidated financial statements included in this report have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business, as to which uncertainty exists. As discussed in the Liquidity section of this report on page 27, we have significant borrowings which require, among other things, compliance with certain financial covenants, specifically a Consolidated Fixed Charge Ratio and a Consolidated Funded Debt to EBITDA Ratio, on a quarterly basis. As a result of the operating losses incurred throughout 2008, we were not in compliance with these ratio covenants under our US Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") with Bank of America, N.A. (the "Bank") at December 31, 2008. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement came due on April 1, 2009, and the Bank has informed the Company that the facility will be terminated and require repayment of all indebtedness due to the Bank. The Company does not have the cash resources or access to alternative financing to repay the Bank. As described in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements, there is substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern, as noted in the audit opinion with respect to our 2008 financial statements. Our 2008 financial statements do not include any adjustment that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Global Headquarters We are headquartered in Corpus Christi, Texas, USA. This location houses senior management, customer service, logistics, and corporate research and development/technical service laboratories. Our financial and accounting functions also operate from this location. Our principal offices in Corpus Christi are located at 722 Burleson Street, Corpus Christi, Texas 78402, and our telephone number is (361) 883-5591. Our website is located at >www.torminerals.com. Information contained in our website or links contained on our website is not part of this Annual Report of Form 10-K. US Operation Our US manufacturing plant, located in Corpus Christi, Texas, is situated on the north side of the Corpus Christi Ship Channel and has its own dock frontage at the plant. We also utilize the Bulk Terminal, operated by the Port of Corpus Christi Authority, to discharge bulk shipments of SR and Barite from cargo vessels directly into trucks for delivery to our plant. The site has its own railhead and easy access to major highways linking it to the rest of the US and to Mexico. HITOX®, BARTEX®, HALTEX® and TIOPREM® are all produced at this location. - 3 - Asian Operation We acquired our Asian Operation, TOR Minerals Malaysia, Sdn. Bhd. ("TMM"), in 2000. Located in Ipoh, Perak, Malaysia, close to the port of Lumut, TMM is a processor of local ilmenite, upgrading it to SR. This material is the basic building block for HITOX, but also is used as feed stock for white TiO2 and used as a component in welding rod flux. The site also has its own processing lines to manufacture HITOX and TIOPREM. The sales team and the quality assurance laboratory for Asia are located at the offices in Ipoh. European Operation In 2001, we acquired our European Operations, TOR Processing and Trade, B.V. ("TPT"). Situated within reach of the major shipping port of Rotterdam, TPT, located in Hattem, Netherlands, specializes in the manufacturing of premium alumina products ("ALUPREM®") for use worldwide. Customer applications, quality assurance laboratory and support facilities for Europe are located in Hattem. TOR Minerals' global headquarters in Texas provides customer service and shipping logistics for TPT's North American customers. Our Products TOR and our subsidiaries operate in the business of pigment manufacturing and related products in three geographic segments. All United States manufacturing is done at the facility located in Corpus Christi, Texas. Foreign manufacturing is done by the Company's wholly-owned subsidiaries, TMM, located in Malaysia and TPT, located in the Netherlands. Our products are currently marketed in the United States and in more than 60 other countries. We sell our products through a network of direct sales representatives employed by the Company and independent stocking distributors in the United States, as well as distributors and agents overseas. Our sales representatives sell directly to end-users and provide marketing support and guidance for our independent distribution network. HITOX Our principal product, HITOX, accounted for approximately 52% of net sales in 2008 as compared to approximately 53% in 2007 and 58% in 2006. HITOX, a light buff-colored titanium dioxide pigment, is made from SR. Titanium dioxide is the most widely used primary pigment in paints, coatings, plastics, paper and many other types of products. Titanium dioxide, or TiO2, gives opacity and whiteness to end products. Most TiO2 is white; however, HITOX is a unique color pigment that is beige. HITOX occupies a special marketing niche as a high quality, color pigment that can replace some of the other more costly color pigments and some of the white TiO2. HITOX pigments are used by major international paint and plastics manufacturers. Uses include architectural paints, primers, metal finishes and coatings, caulks and sealants, floor tiles and plastic profiles, sheets and film. HITOX, manufactured at plants located in both the US and Malaysia, utilizes SR manufactured at TMM as its primary raw material. The manufacturing process for producing HITOX is not simple and the details of the process and the operating parameters of the systems are not widely known. The HITOX manufacturing process is not patented. In May 2008, we commissioned a new HITOX production process in Malaysia. The new process, which replaces fuel oil with electricity as the primary energy source, significantly reduced HITOX manufacturing costs at the Malaysian facility. ALUPREM Our alumina trihydrate ("ATH") products were expanded in 2001 with the introduction of ALUPREM, which is manufactured at our European operation, TPT, in the Netherlands. ALUPREM, which stands for premium alumina, was developed by TOR's President and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Olaf Karasch. The details of the manufacturing process and the operating parameters of the systems are not widely known. The ALUPREM manufacturing process is not patented. ALUPREM products are used for color critical applications as fillers and flame retardants, such as Solid Surface/Onyx and performance driven uses such as specialty wire and cable insulation, catalysts, high-tech polishing, pigments and specialty papers. ALUPREM represented approximately 30% of TOR's 2008 and 2007 net sales as compared to 24% in 2006. - 4 - SYNTHETIC RUTILE SR, the basic building block for HITOX and TIOPREM, is manufactured at our Asian operation using the Benilite process for producing SR. Ilmenite, the raw material used in the manufacturing process, is first treated in a reduction kiln and then subjected to leaching in hydrochloric acid where soluble iron and other impurities are removed. SR is also used as feed stock for white TiO2 and as a component in welding rod flux. Sales of synthetic rutile to third parties were not significant in 2008, 2007 or 2006. BARTEX BARTEX, which accounted for approximately 12% of our 2008 net sales compared to 11% and 12% in 2007 and 2006, respectively, is manufactured at our US operation from high grade barites (barium sulfate) utilizing a milling process. Barium Sulfate's high density is one of the primary reasons it is used in coatings. As an inert extender pigment, BARTEX, characterized as ultra fine with high brightness and narrow particle size distribution, gives weight and body to products ranging from powder coatings used in appliance and office furniture finishes to rubber products such as carpet and curtain backings and plastics including billiard balls and poker chips. BARTEX allows more expensive prime white pigments, such as white TiO2, to be supplemented or replaced to some degree. BARTEX is manufactured in several different grades which are differentiated by average particle size and whiteness. HALTEX HALTEX, manufactured at our US operation, is produced from Bayer grade alumina trihydrate (ATH) using some of the same production technologies as our other products. It is an environmentally-friendly flame retardant, smoke suppressant filler used in plastic and rubber products. HALTEX features high purity and engineered particle sizing for optimum physical properties. The quality of our HALTEX is suitable for a broad range of technical applications including SMC/BMC thermoset molding compounds, thermoplastic profiles, electrical wire & cable insulation, mining conveyor belts, specialty coatings as well as adhesives and sealants. In 2008 we introduced and began commercial sales of a new line of low viscosity ATH products under the name HALTEX LV. The new line allows for higher filler loadings (compared to standard products) into SMC/BMC and other plastic compounds to meet higher levels of flame retardant, smoke suppressant behavior. TOR Minerals foresees a growing demand for HALTEX LV products in line with more stringent flame retardant/smoke suppressant legislative regulations, including the possible future elimination of halogen flame retardants. TIOPREM TIOPREM, manufactured at our US and Malaysian operation is produced from a proprietary process based on modified SR feedstock made at TOR Minerals' Malaysian plant. Introduced in 2008, TIOPREM is a series of high performance, heat stable colored TiO2 hybrid pigments offering cost savings through the partial replacement of expensive color pigments and white TiO2 in plastics and specialty paints & coatings. End use applications include engineered plastics, laminates, window profiles, plastic lumber, roofing granules and ceramic coatings. Raw Materials and Energy We utilize a variety of raw materials in the manufacture of our products. Outlined below are the principal raw materials for TOR's products. SR: Titanium dioxide pigment can be produced using ilmenite, natural rutile, SR or titanium slag. SR is produced from ilmenite and typically has a titanium dioxide content ranging from 92% to 95%. Ilmenite is a black material found in natural mineral deposits and typically has a titanium dioxide content ranging from 44% to 60%. Ilmenite is found throughout the world, including China, India, Australia and North America. In Malaysia, ilmenite historically has been recovered incidental to tin mining, but as tin mining has decreased in Malaysia, the source and quality of ilmenite has been declining. - 5 - As a result, our current supply is mainly obtained from available stockpiles around Malaysia with virtually no replenishment. The average price for the local ilmenite has been going up and increased approximately 10% in 2008. Although we have been actively developing alternative sources of supply for ilmenite, we expect to utilize the offshore material only when necessary as the cost is much higher due to additional freight and handling.HITOX: TMM is the Company's sole supplier of SR, the raw material for HITOX and TIOPREM. The cost of SR has increased approximately 14% in 2008 and 7% in 2007 primarily due to increases in the cost of ilmenite and energy which increased approximately 5% and 32%, respectively. Other than TMM, there is only one other available source for the quality of SR required for the production of HITOX. If supplies of SR from TMM are interrupted and we are unable to arrange for alternative sources, our ability to produce HITOX, which accounted for 52% of our sales in 2008, would likely suffer, which would adversely affect our business. ALUPREM: Alumina trihydrate, the chief raw material for ALUPREM, is manufactured throughout the world including Europe and North America. The ATH material used for chemicals, fillers and flame-retardants is produced by the Bayer alumina process. This grade of ATH accounts for approximately 95% of the total ATH produced worldwide. The Company purchases ATH from various suppliers in Europe. The average prices for ATH remained stable in both 2008 and 2007. BARTEX: High grade barites (barium sulfate) are mined in China, India, Turkey and Mexico and are the raw materials used to produce BARTEX. The average price for this grade of barites increased approximately 19% in 2008 and 17% in 2007. HALTEX: Bayer grade aluminum hydroxide, used to produce HALTEX, is purchased from one of four suppliers located in the US. The average price for the Bayer grade aluminum increased approximately 6% in 2008, following a decrease of approximately 14% in 2007. ENERGY: We are highly dependent on energy in our manufacturing processes. Natural gas is the predominate source of energy in Corpus Christi. Fuel oil is the predominate source of energy at TMM and electricity is the primary source of energy at TPT. The average energy price, primarily natural gas, in Corpus Christi increased approximately 26% in 2008 and remained stable in 2007. Average energy prices at TMM, primarily fuel oil, increased 32% in 2008 and 12% in 2007. Energy prices at TPT, primarily electricity, remained stable in 2008 and 2007. Research and Development / Technical Services Our expenditures for research and development and technical services remained relatively flat in both 2008 and 2007. We conduct our research and technical service primarily at our facilities in Corpus Christi and our efforts are principally focused on process technology, product development and technical service to our customers. There are no research and development costs borne directly by our customers. Marketing and Customers Sales and Marketing Department Organization TOR's sales efforts are managed out of Corpus Christi, Texas, by the Executive Vice President. We have sales offices at our US, Asian and European operations. The Executive Vice President has a number of area and product managers that work for the Company and help him both deal directly with customers and manage agent and distributor relations. Independent Distributors and Agents We utilize a network of both domestic and foreign independent distributors and agents. Within North America there are multiple agents serving us on either a regional or a product basis. In most other countries there is one stocking distributor who purchases directly from TOR and resells in their territory. In certain large countries there may be multiple distributors. In this way we get the benefit of sales specialists with specific trade knowledge in each country. - 6 - Customers Our end use customers include companies in the paints, coatings, plastics, catalyst and solid surface industries. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our total consolidated sales. Geographic Distribution We sell our products globally and market them in North, Central and South America, Asia and Europe to customers located in more than 60 countries. No individual foreign country accounted for 10% or more of our foreign sales in 2008, 2007 or 2006. Sales to external customers are attributed to geographic area based on country of distribution. A summary of the Company's sales by geographic area is presented below: (In thousands) 2008 2007 2006 Summary by Geographic Area Sales Revenue % of Total Sales Sales Revenue % of Total Sales Sales Revenue % of Total Sales United States $ 12,796 51% $ 16,237 58% $ 15,555 60% Canada, Mexico & South/Central America 2,536 10% 2,966 11% 3,362 13% Pacific Rim 3,048 12% 2,273 8% 1,702 6% Europe, Africa & Middle East 6,924 27% 6,485 23% 5,460 21% Total Sales $ 25,304 100% $ 27,961 100% $ 26,079 100% Competition We experience competition with respect to each of our products. Each product sold by TOR is in direct competition in the market with products which are similar. In order to maintain sales volumes, we must rely on our ability to manufacture and distribute products at competitive prices. We believe that quality, delivery on schedule and price are the principal competitive factors. However, due to the nature of our main product, HITOX, and the size of our company as compared to others in the industry, we are not price leaders, but are price followers and while we generally attempt to increase prices to offset cost increases, these actions tend to lag the cost increases. Competitors range from large corporations with a full line of production capabilities and products to small local firms specializing in one or two products. A number of these competitors are owned and operated by large diversified corporations. Many of these competitors, such as E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co., Inc., Millennium Chemicals, Kronos Inc. and J.M. Huber, have substantially greater financial and other resources, and their share of industry sales is substantially larger than TOR's. Environmental Regulations and Product Safety Our plant in Corpus Christi is subject to regulations promulgated by the Federal Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") and state and local authorities with respect to the discharge of substances into the environment. We believe that the Corpus Christi plant is in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the discharge of substances into the environment, and we do not expect that any material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities will be necessary in order to continue such compliance. TMM's SR plant is required to be licensed by the Malaysian Atomic Energy Licensing Board ("AELB") because the ilmenite used by the plant is derived from tin tailings, which are a source of small amounts of monazite and hafnium which are radioactive rare earth compounds. As part of the licensing requirements, TMM is required to maintain a monitoring program for various emissions from the plant. The monitoring is done in-house by TMM personnel and results are reported to the AELB as required. The plant is subject to various other licensing and permitting requirements, all of which TMM is currently in compliance. - 7 - TPT operates an alumina processing plant in Hattem, the Netherlands, and is governed by rules promulgated by both The Netherlands and the European Community. We believe that the Hattem plant is in compliance with all environmental and safety regulations.HITOX and the ingredient from which it is produced, SR, are non-toxic and non-hazardous. HITOX complies with all applicable laws and regulations enforced by the United States Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") and is an acceptable component of packaging materials used in direct contact with meat, poultry and other food products; of paints used in incidental contact with such products; and of other packaging materials, such as paper and paperboard. HITOX also complies with current color additive regulations promulgated by the FDA. In addition, HITOX has been tested for compliance with the applicable standards promulgated by the National Sanitation Foundation (the "NSF"), and we are authorized to use applicable NSF seals and/or logos in connection with the marketing of HITOX. This authorization is significant in that end users of titanium dioxide pigments who wish their products to be NSF approved must use component materials that also meet NSF standards. Backlog We normally manufacture our pigment products in anticipation of, and not in response to, customer orders and generally fill orders within a short time after receipt. Consequently, we seek to maintain adequate inventories of our pigment products in order to permit us to fill orders promptly after receipt. As of March 31, 2009, we did not have a significant backlog of customer orders. Seasonality Our business is closely correlated with the construction industry and its demand for materials that use pigments, such as paints and plastics. This has generally led to higher sales in our second and third quarters due to increases in construction and maintenance during warmer weather. Also, pigment consumption is closely correlated with general economic conditions. When the economy is in an expansionary state, there is typically an increase in pigment consumption while a slow down typically results in decreased pigment consumption. When the construction industry or the economy is in a period of decline, TOR's sales and profit are likely to be adversely affected. Patents and Trademarks We currently hold no patents on the processes for manufacturing any of our products. Six of TOR's products, HITOX (4/30/2015), ALUPREM (7/29/2013), HALTEX (7/28/2012), BARTEX (2/24/2017), TIOPREM (8/5/2014), OSO® (6/6/2009), TITOX® (5/26/2012), TOR BRIGHT® (9/10/2014) and TOR COAT® (9/10/2013), are marketed under names which have been registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Trademarks are also registered in certain foreign countries. Employees As of December 31, 2008, our US operation had 35 full-time employees, our European operation employed 17, and our Asian operation had 112 employees, of which 59 are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with an in-house union. We have not experienced any work stoppages and believe that our relations with all our employees are good. Available Information TOR's internet website address is www.torminerals.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available through our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. - 8 - Item 1 A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed in the Forward-Looking Statement section provided at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. In addition, you should know that the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Unforeseen risks could arise and problems or issues that we now view as minor could become more significant. If we were unable to adequately respond to any risks, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurances that any actions taken to reduce known risks or uncertainties will work. • Our principal lender for our U.S. operations has demanded repayment of all of the indebtedness that we owe the lender and we do not have the liquidity or alternative financing arrangements to pay off this lender. As a result, there is a substantial risk that we may not be able to continue as a going concern, which may lead to our bankruptcy or liquidation. As further described herein under "Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity", the Company has a Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A. (the "Bank"), under which approximately $2.456 million of indebtedness is owed by us to the Bank as of February 28, 2008. All of the assets of our U.S. operations have been pledged to the Bank as security for such indebtedness. As a result of our failure to comply with a cash flow financial covenant in our Credit Agreement, on March 5, 2009, the Bank notified us of its decision to terminate the Credit Agreement and require us to pay off all of this outstanding debt by April 1, 2009. We do not have the cash resources to discharge this indebtedness as required nor do we have alternative financing source to enable us to refinance this indebtedness. On March 9, 2009, the Bank notified us that it is considering an extension of the Credit Agreement, subject to our satisfaction of several conditions, including that we raise additional equity capital and that one or more of the members of our Board of Directors execute personal guaranties of the Credit Agreement in favor of the Bank. There can be no assurance that the Bank will extend the Credit Agreement on terms favorable to us or at all or that we will be able to meet any of the conditions required by the Bank in order for us to obtain an extension. Because we do not have sufficient liquidity to pay of the indebtedness owed to the Bank, if we are unable to obtain an extension, the Bank would be entitled to exercise all of its rights and remedies of a secured lender under the Credit Agreement. If that were to occur, we would not be able to continue its business operations as a going concern and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. In addition, the Company's two subsidiaries, TMM and TPT, have short-term credit facilities and term loans at banks in Malaysia and the Netherlands, respectively. At December 31, 2008, TMM's utilization under the credit facilities and term loans with HSBC Bank Malaysia, Bhd. ("HSBC") and RHB Bank, Bhd. ("RHB") totaled $2,205,000 and TPT's utilization under the credit facility and term loans with Rabobank totaled $3,082,000. The credit facilities with HSBC, RHB and Rabobank are subject to demand provisions and are subject to certain subjective acceleration covenants based on the judgment of the banks. While the banks have made no indication that they will demand payment of the debt in Malaysia or in the Netherlands, there can be no assurances that this debt will not be called for payment. If it is called for repayment, we may be unable to refinance such indebtedness, and if we are unable, the lenders could foreclose on the assets of TMM and TPT. If it is called for repayment, we may be unable to refinancing such indebtedness, and if we are unable, the lenders could foreclose on the assets of TMM and TPT. Our ability to continue to operate as a going concern is dependent on our ability to improve our operating cash flows to a sufficient level, successfully negotiate with our US lending institution or establish a corporate lending relationship with a new financial institution, and/or raise sufficient new capital. There can be no assurance these changes in our operations or our financing initiatives will be successful. - 9 - • Our foreign debt is subject to subjective acceleration provisions and demand provisions that allow our lending institutions to accelerate payment at any time. If our foreign debt were accelerated under the demand provisions, our working capital and financial condition would be severely impacted. Our subsidiaries have loan agreements with banks in Malaysia and the Netherlands that provide short-term credit facilities and term loans. These borrowings are subject to certain subjective acceleration provisions based on the judgment of the banks and demand provisions that provide that the banks may demand repayment at any time. We believe such a demand provision is customary in Malaysia and the Netherlands for such facilities. At December 31, 2008, our foreign debt consisted of $2,864,000 under the short-term credit facilities and $2,634,000 under the term loans and financial lease agreements. The foreign banks have made no indication that they will demand payment of any of our loans in Malaysia or the Netherlands; however, there can be no assurances that this debt will not be called in the future, particularly in light of the financial difficulties being currently experienced by the Company. At December 31, 2008, TPT's bank debt totaled $3,082,000, of which, TOR (which conducts our US operations from Corpus Christi, Texas) has guaranteed $94,000. If the Netherlands bank were to make demand of TPT's debt and TPT could not refinance that debt with another lending institution, TOR's guarantee could be enforced by TPT's lender. If demand is made by the banks, we may require additional debt or equity financing to meet our working capital and operational requirements or, if required, to refinance maturing or demanded indebtedness. Should we find it necessary to raise additional funds, we may find that such funds are either not available or available only on terms that are unattractive in terms of shareholders' interest, or both, and if this debt could not be repaid or refinanced, the banks could foreclose and sell our foreign operations or hold same as collateral security for these loans, and pursue collection against our guarantees of such loans which would adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity and may force us into bankruptcy or liquidation. (See "Liquidity, Capital Resources and Other Financial Information" on page 27). • We may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market if the price of our common shares remains under $1.00 per share. Under NASDAQ rules, a stock listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market must maintain a minimum bid price of at least $1.00 per share. During late 2008 and early 2009, the minimum bid price for our common shares has fallen below $1.00 per share. As a matter of practice, NASDAQ generally gives a company notice of delisting if its common shares trade below $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days. After receiving the notice, the company will generally be delisted if the trading price for its common stock has not exceeded $1.00 for 10 consecutive days within 90 days of the date of the notice. NASDAQ has temporarily suspended its minimum bid price requirements until July 20, 2009 in light of recent declines in the value of equity securities overall. NASDAQ is not, however, required to extend this rule suspension or give a company any grace period and may delist a company's stock immediately after violation of an applicable rule. Accordingly, if the price of our common stock continues to trade below $1.00 for a sustained period of time, or if NASDAQ decides to delist our common shares based upon a one-time violation of the bid-price rule or any other rule, we may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. Following any such delisting, our common shares may be eligible for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board or other quotation service. Nonetheless, even if our common shares are quoted on an alternative quotation service, the fact of being delisted from the NASDAQ Capital market will likely harm the price and trading volume for our common shares. Once delisted, our common shares would not be eligible for relisting until, among other things, our common shares traded at or above $4.00 per share. - 10 - • Effects of current severe recession on our business. Global economic and market conditions and economic conditions in the United States, and other key markets, have been adversely affected by a persistent severe economic contraction which has resulted in deterioration of the construction business and other businesses that use our products, resulting in reduced demand for our products. This, in turn, caused us to breach financial ratio covenants in our Credit Agreement, which have material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Continued economic weakness, customer financial difficulties, increases in the costs of production, and reductions in spending on construction is expected to have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and consequently on our results of operations and stock price. Our ability to generate revenue is dependant upon the budgets of our core customers. If current recessionary economic conditions continue to persist, these budgets and, consequently, our revenues will be adversely affected. In addition, if the adverse business and economic conditions were to continue, we could experience additional increases in our provisions for doubtful accounts. • Costs of raw materials and energy have resulted and may continue to result in increased operating expenses and reduced results of operations. We purchase large amounts of raw materials and energy for our manufacturing operations. The cost of these raw materials and energy, in the aggregate, represent a substantial portion of our operating expenses. The costs of raw materials and energy generally follow price trends of, and vary with the market conditions for crude oil and natural gas, which may be highly volatile and cyclical. Many raw material and energy costs have recently experienced significant fluctuations, reaching historically record high levels. Moreover, a weak US dollar adds to the volatility in raw material costs. There have been, and will likely continue to be, periods of time when we are unable to pass raw material and energy cost increases on to our customers quickly enough to avoid adverse impacts on our results of operations. In addition, in 2008 we reduced production in the US approximately 31% primarily due to the increased cost of natural gas and freight related to shipping SR from Malaysia to our US operation Our results of operations have been, and could be in the future, significantly affected by increases and volatility in these costs. Cost increases also may increase working capital needs, which could reduce our liquidity and cash flow. In addition, when raw material and energy costs increase rapidly and are passed along to customers as product price increases, the credit risks associated with certain customers can be compounded. To the extent we increase our product sales prices to reflect rising raw material and energy costs, demand for products may decrease as customers reduce their consumption and use substitute products, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. • We have one primary source for SR and if that source was not available, we could not produce our primary product, HITOX. TMM is our primary source for SR. There is only one other available source for the quality of SR required for the production of HITOX. If supplies of SR from TMM are interrupted and we are unable to arrange for an alternative source, this could result in our inability to produce HITOX which accounted for approximately 52% of our sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. • We are dependent on a limited number of customers and could experience significant revenue reductions if they use alternative sources. We derive a significant portion of our revenue each quarter from a limited number of customers. Our top 10 customers accounted for 37%, 38% and 43% of our sales revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Though no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our 2008, 2007 or 2006 sales revenue, a decrease in sales volume of any one of our top 10 customers could have a material impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. - 11 - • Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely impact our financial condition. Because we own assets located outside the United States and have revenues and expenses in currencies other than the US Dollar, we may incur currency transaction and translation losses due to changes in the values of foreign currencies and in the value of the US Dollar. Foreign currency exposure from transactions and commitments denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are managed by selectively entering into derivative transactions. Translation exposure associated with translating the functional currency financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into US Dollars is generally not hedged. Upon translation to the US Dollar, operating results could be significantly affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We cannot predict the effect of changes in exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. (See "Foreign Operations - Impact of Exchange Rate" on page 38). • We borrow funds from time to time from members of our board of directors for working capital purposes. In the past, we have had to borrow funds from members of our board of directors for working capital purposes. At December 31, 2006, we had a $400,000 loan outstanding to our Chairman, Bernard Paulson, a 21.4% shareholder, through Paulson Ranch, Ltd, which was paid off in March 2007. We most likely will require additional working capital loans in the future, but it is also possible that such loans from our board members would not be available because they have made no commitment to provide additional loans. • We are required to make estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. In preparing our financial statements in conformity with GAAP, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ from previously-estimated amounts under different conditions and assumptions. • Our competitors are established companies that have greater experience than us in a number of crucial areas, including manufacturing and distribution. There is intense competition with respect to each of our products. In order to maintain sales volume, we must consistently deliver high quality products on schedule at competitive prices. Our competitors range from large corporations with full lines of production capabilities and products, such as E. I. DuPont de Nemours & Co., Inc., Millenium Chemicals, Kronos, Inc., and J. M. Huber, to small local firms specializing in one or two products. The established companies have significantly greater experience than us in manufacturing and distributing products and have considerably more resources and market share. We may have difficulty in competing with these companies. • Our US operation is located on the Gulf of Mexico coastline and could be adversely affected by hurricanes. We may be subject to work stoppages for hurricanes, particularly during the period ranging from June to November. If a hurricane is severe and our Corpus Christi plant incurs heavy damage and prolonged downtime, which may not be fully covered by insurance, our financial results would be adversely affected. - 12 - • Doing business in foreign countries carries certain risks that are not found in doing business in the US. We currently derive a portion of our revenues from operations in Malaysia and the Netherlands and we source our SR from Malaysia, which is the critical raw material we require for the production of our primary product, HITOX. We believe that currently the risks of doing business in Malaysia and the Netherlands are not significant, however, future risks of doing business in these countries which could result in losses against which we are not insured include, but are not limited to, the following: Potential adverse changes in diplomatic relations of foreign countries with the United States of America Terrorism Disruptions caused by possible foreign conflicts Hostility from local populations Adverse effect of currency exchange controls Restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign investment and earnings Government policies against businesses owned by foreigners Foreign exchange restrictions Changes in taxation structure Item 1 B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the date of this report, we did not have any unresolved staff comments. Item 