Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed in the Forward-Looking Statement section provided at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. In addition, you should know that the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Unforeseen risks could arise and problems or issues that we now view as minor could become more significant. If we were unable to adequately respond to any risks, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurances that any actions taken to reduce known risks or uncertainties will work. Ø Our foreign debt is subject to subjective acceleration provisions and demand provisions that allow our lending institutions to accelerate payment at any time. If our foreign debt were accelerated under the demand provisions, our working capital and financial condition would be severely impacted. Our subsidiaries have loan agreements with banks in Malaysia and The Netherlands that provide short-term credit facilities and term loans. These borrowings are subject to certain subjective acceleration provisions based on the judgment of the banks and demand provisions that provide that the banks may demand repayment at any time. We believe such a demand provision is customary in Malaysia and The Netherlands for such facilities. At December 31, 2012, our foreign debt consisted of $2,503,000 under the short-term credit facilities and $2,250,000 under the term loans and financial lease agreements. If demand is made by the banks, we will require additional debt or equity financing to meet our working capital and operational requirements and to refinance our maturing or demanded indebtedness. Should we find it necessary to raise additional funds, we may find that such funds are either not available or available only on terms that are unattractive in terms of shareholders' interest, or both, and if this debt could not be repaid or refinanced, the banks could foreclose and sell our foreign operations, which the banks hold as collateral security for these loans, and pursue collection against our guarantees of such loans which would adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. Ø Our business is affected by global economic factors including risks associated with declining economic conditions. Our financial results are substantially dependent upon overall economic conditions in the United States, the European Union and Asia. Declining economic conditions in any or all of these locations - or negative perceptions about economic conditions - could result in a substantial decrease in demand for our products and could adversely affect our business. Recent adverse economic conditions in the European Union have adversely affected the sales of our products in this geographic region. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations-Results of Operations-European Operations." Uncertain economic conditions and market instability make it difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers to forecast demand trends. Declines in demand would place additional pressure on our results of operations. The timing and extent of any changes to currently prevailing market conditions is uncertain and supply and demand may be unbalanced at any time. As a consequence, at present, we are unable to accurately predict future economic conditions or the effect of such conditions on our financial conditions or results of operations, and we can give no assurances as to the timing, extent or duration of the current or future economic cycles impacting our industry. - 10 - Ø Costs of raw materials and energy have resulted, and may continue to result, in increased operating expenses and reduced results of operations. We purchase large amounts of raw materials and energy for our manufacturing operations. The cost of these raw materials and energy, in the aggregate, represent a substantial portion of our operating expenses. The costs of raw materials and energy generally follow price trends of, and vary with the market conditions for crude oil and natural gas, which may be highly volatile and cyclical. Many raw material and energy costs have recently experienced significant fluctuations, reaching historically record high levels. Moreover, the fluctuation of the U.S. Dollar to other currencies adds to the volatility in raw material costs. There have been, and will likely continue to be, periods of time when we are unable to pass raw material and energy cost increases on to our customers quickly enough to avoid adverse impacts on our results of operations. Our results of operations have been in the past, and could be in the future, significantly affected by increases and volatility in these costs. Cost increases also may increase working capital needs, which could reduce our liquidity and cash flow. In addition, when raw material and energy costs increase rapidly and are passed along to customers as product price increases, the credit risks associated with certain customers can be compounded. To the extent we increase our product sales prices to reflect rising raw material and energy costs, demand for products may decrease as customers reduce their consumption and use substitute products, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Historically, we have purchased our ilmenite ore in Malaysia. However, as the remaining stockpiles around Malaysia have started depleting, we have started purchasing ilmenite from various other suppliers throughout the world. As a result, our average price paid for the ilmenite has increased approximately 56% during 2012 following an increase of 118% in 2011. Ø Climate change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could adversely impact our results of operations. In addition to the possible direct economic impact that climate change could have on us, climate change regulation could significantly increase our costs. Energy costs are a significant component of our overall costs, and climate change regulation may result in significant increases in the cost of energy. Ø We have one primary source for SR and, if that source was not available, we could not produce HITOX or TIOPREM. TMM is our primary source for SR. There is only one other available source for the quality of SR required for the production of HITOX and TIOPREM. If supplies of SR from TMM are interrupted and we are unable to arrange for this alternative source, this could result in our inability to produce these products which accounted for approximately 36% of our sales for the year ended December 31, 2012. Ø We are dependent on a limited number of customers and could experience significant revenue reductions if they use alternative sources. We derive a significant portion of our revenue each quarter from a limited number of customers. Our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 49% of our consolidated sales revenues in 2012 and 40% of our consolidated sales revenues in 2011. As a result, a decrease in sales volume of any one of our top 10 customers could have a material impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the BASF Corporation and Tioxide Europe Ltd represented approximately 17% and 16%, respectively, of our total consolidated sales and the loss either of these customers could have a material impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. - 11 - Ø Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely impact our financial condition. Because we own assets located outside the United States and have revenues and expenses in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, we may incur currency transaction and translation losses due to changes in the values of foreign currencies and in the value of the U.S. Dollar. Foreign currency exposure from transactions and commitments denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are managed by selectively entering into derivative transactions. Translation exposure associated with translating the functional currency financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. Dollars is generally not hedged. Upon translation to the U.S. Dollar, operating results could be significantly affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We cannot predict the effect of changes in exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. (See "Foreign Operations - Impact of Exchange Rate" on page 32). Ø We borrow funds from time to time from members of our board of directors for working capital purposes. In the past, we have had to borrow funds from members of our board of directors for working capital purposes. We most likely will require additional working capital loans in the future, but it is also possible that such loans from our board members would not be available because they have made no commitment to provide additional loans. Ø We are required to make estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ from previously estimated amounts under different conditions and assumptions. Ø Our competitors are established companies that have greater experience than us in a number of crucial areas, including manufacturing and distribution. There is intense competition with respect to each of our products. In order to maintain sales volume, we must consistently deliver high quality products on schedule at competitive prices. Our competitors range from large corporations with full lines of production capabilities and products, such as E. I. DuPont de Nemours & Co., Inc., Millenium Chemicals, Kronos, Inc., and J. M. Huber, to small local firms specializing in one or two products. The established companies have significantly greater experience than us in manufacturing and distributing products and have considerably more resources and market share. We may have difficulty in competing with these companies. Ø The Company is subject to cyber security risks and may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks and to respond to cyber incidents. The Company's business involves the storage and transmission of the Company's and its customers' and suppliers' proprietary information, and security breaches could expose it to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation and potential liability. A number of companies have disclosed security breaches, some of which have involved intentional attacks. The Company may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber attacks. Attacks may be targeted at the Company, its customers, or both. If an actual or perceived breach of security occurs, customer and/or supplier perception of the effectiveness of the Company's security measures could be harmed and could result in the loss of customers, suppliers or both. Actual or anticipated attacks and risks may cause the Company to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third party experts and consultants. - 12 - A person who is able to circumvent the Company's security measures could misappropriate the Company's or its customers' and suppliers' proprietary information, cause interruption in its operations, damage its computers or those of its users, or otherwise damage its reputation and business. Any compromise of security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to the Company's reputation, and a loss of confidence in its security measures, which could harm its business. The Company's servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions, including "denial-of-service" type attacks. The Company may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. Security breaches, including any breach by the Company or by persons with whom it has commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of its users' personal information, could damage its reputation and expose it to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Ø Our U.S. operation is located on the Gulf of Mexico coastline and could be adversely affected by hurricanes. We may be subject to work stoppages for hurricanes, particularly during the period ranging from June to November. If a hurricane is severe and our Corpus Christi plant incurs heavy damage and prolonged downtime, which may not be fully covered by insurance, our financial results would be adversely affected. Ø Doing business in foreign countries carries certain risks that are not found in doing business in the U.S. We currently derive a portion of our revenues from operations in Malaysia and The Netherlands and we source our SR from Malaysia, which is the critical raw material we require for the production of our primary product, HITOX. We believe that currently the risks of doing business in Malaysia and The Netherlands are not significant, however, future risks of doing business in these countries which could result in losses against which we are not insured include, but are not limited to, the following: Ø Potential adverse changes in diplomatic relations of foreign countries with the United States of America Ø Terrorism Ø Disruptions caused by possible foreign conflicts Ø Hostility from local populations Ø Adverse effect of currency exchange controls Ø Restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign investment and earnings Ø Government policies against businesses owned by foreigners Ø Foreign exchange restrictions Ø Changes in taxation structure - 13 - Item 1 B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the date of this report, we did not have any unresolved staff comments. 