Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed in the Forward-Looking Statement section provided at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. In addition, you should know that the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Unforeseen risks could arise and problems or issues that we now view as minor could become more significant. If we were unable to adequately respond to any risks, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurances that any actions taken to reduce known risks or uncertainties will work. Our foreign debt is subject to subjective acceleration provisions and demand provisions that allow our lending institutions to accelerate payment at any time. If our foreign debt were accelerated under the demand provisions, our working capital and financial condition would be severely impacted. Our subsidiaries have loan agreements with banks in Malaysia and the Netherlands that provide short-term credit facilities and term loans. These borrowings are subject to certain subjective acceleration provisions based on the judgment of the banks and demand provisions that provide that the banks may demand repayment at any time. We believe such a demand provision is customary in Malaysia and the Netherlands for such facilities. At December 31, 2006, our foreign debt consisted of $811,000 under the short-term credit facilities and $2,764,000 under the term loans and financial lease agreements. The foreign banks have made no indication that they will demand payment of any of our loans in Malaysia or the Netherlands; however, there can be no assurances that this debt will not be called in the future. At December 31, 2006, TP&T's bank debt totaled $2,984,000, of which, TOR (which conducts our US operations from Corpus Christi, Texas) has guaranteed $1,257,000. If the Netherlands bank were to make demand of TP&T's debt and TP&T could not refinance that debt with another lending institution, TOR's guarantee could be enforced by TP&T's lender. If this were to occur, it could result in TOR not being in compliance with the covenants relating to TOR's US credit facilities (which totaled $4,495,000 as of December 31, 2006), and could cause an acceleration/demand of the US debt. Table_Contents - 9 - If demand is made by the banks, we may require additional debt or equity financing to meet our working capital and operational requirements or, if required, to refinance maturing or demanded indebtedness. Should we find it necessary to raise additional funds, we may find that such funds are either not available or available only on terms that are unattractive in terms of shareholders' interest, or both, and if this debt could not be repaid or refinanced, the banks could foreclose and sell our foreign operations or hold same as collateral security for these loans, and pursue collection against our guarantees of such loans which would adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. (See "Liquidity, Capital Resources and Other Financial Information" on page 22). We have one primary source for SR and if that source was not available, we could not produce our primary product, HITOX. TMM is our primary source for SR. There is only one other available source for the quality of SR required for the production of HITOX. If supplies of SR from TMM are interrupted and we are unable to arrange for an alternative source, this could result in our inability to produce HITOX which accounted for approximately 58% of our sales for the year ended December 31, 2006. We are dependent on a limited number of customers and could experience significant revenue reductions if they use alternative sources. We derive a significant portion of our revenue each quarter from a limited number of customers. Our top 10 customers accounted for 43%, 56% and 53% of our sales revenues in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Though no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our 2006 sales revenue, sales to the Engelhard Corporation through a one year agreement and Tronox through a multi-year contract accounted for approximately 20% and 11%, respectively, of our total revenues in 2005 and 16% and 17%, respectively in 2004. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely impact our financial condition. Because we own assets located outside the United States and have revenues and expenses in currencies other than the US Dollar, we may incur currency transaction and translation losses due to changes in the values of foreign currencies and in the value of the US Dollar. Foreign currency exposure from transactions and commitments denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are managed by selectively entering into derivative transactions pursuant to our hedging. Translation exposure associated with translating the functional currency financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into US Dollars is generally not hedged. Upon translation to the US Dollar, operating results could be significantly affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We cannot predict the effect of changes in exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. (See "Foreign Operations - Impact of Exchange Rate" on page 31). We borrow funds from time to time from members of our board of directors for working capital purposes. In the past, we have had to borrow funds from members of our board of directors for working capital purposes. At December 31, 2006, we had a $400,000 loan outstanding to our Chairman, Bernard Paulson, a 15.9% shareholder, through Paulson Ranch, Ltd, which was paid off in March 2007. It is possible we could require additional working capital loans in the future, but also that such loans from our board members would not be available because they have made no commitment to provide additional loans. Our competitors are established companies that have greater experience than us in a number of crucial areas, including manufacturing and distribution. There is intense competition with respect to each of our products. In order to maintain sales volume, we must consistently deliver high quality products on schedule at competitive prices. Our competitors range from large corporations with full lines of production capabilities and products, such as E. I. DuPont de Nemours & Co., Inc., Millenium Chemicals, Tronox Incorporated, Kronos, Inc., and J. M. Huber, to small local firms specializing in one or two products. The established companies have significantly greater experience than us in manufacturing and distributing our products and have considerably more resources and market share, and we may have difficulty in competing with these companies. Table_Contents - 10 - Increases in energy, freight and certain raw material costs could negatively affect future gross margins. Increases in the costs of our energy, freight and certain raw materials have negatively affected our 2006, 2005 and 2004 gross margins. In addition, the local Malaysian supply of Ilmenite is diminishing and it is anticipated that we will be required to purchase Ilmenite offshore at 70% to 100% higher prices starting in 2008 or 2009. The extent of these price increases on future gross margins will depend on future product mix and whether the cost increases can be absorbed through end customer price increases. It is possible that increases in energy, freight costs and prices of raw materials will adversely impact our future results from operations if these increased costs cannot be offset by correspondingly higher sales prices. Our US operation is located on the Gulf of Mexico coastline and could be adversely affected by hurricanes. We may be subject to work stoppages for hurricanes, particularly during the period ranging from June to November. If a hurricane is severe and the plant incurs heavy damage and prolonged downtime, which may not be covered fully by insurance, it would adversely impact our financial results. Doing business in foreign countries carries with it certain risks that are not found in doing business in the US. We currently derive a portion of our revenues from operations in Malaysia and the Netherlands and we source our SR from Malaysia, which is the critical raw material we require for the production of our primary product, HITOX. We believe that currently the risks of doing business in Malaysia and the Netherlands are not significant, however, future risks of doing business in these countries which could result in losses against which we are not insured include, but are not limited to, the following: • Potential adverse changes in diplomatic relations of foreign countries with the United States • Terrorism • Disruptions caused by possible foreign conflicts • Hostility from local populations • Adverse effect of currency exchange controls • Restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign investment and earnings • Government policies against businesses owned by foreigners • Foreign exchange restrictions • Changes in taxation structure Item 1 B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the date of this report, we did not have any unresolved staff comments. Item 