Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed in the Forward-Looking Statement section provided at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. In addition, you should know that the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Unforeseen risks could arise and problems or issues that we now view as minor could become more significant. If we were unable to adequately respond to any risks, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurances that any actions taken to reduce known risks or uncertainties will work. • Our principal lender for our US operations has demanded repayment of all of the indebtedness that we owe the lender and we do not have the liquidity or alternative financing arrangements to pay off this lender. As a result, there is a substantial risk that we may not be able to continue as a going concern. As further described herein under "Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity", the Company has a Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A. (the "Bank"), under which approximately $2,100,000 of indebtedness is owed by us to the Bank as of December 31, 2009. The accounts receivable and inventory of our US operations have been pledged to the Bank as security for such indebtedness. As a result of our failure to comply with a cash flow financial covenant in our Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2008 and March 31, 2009, the Bank notified us of its decision to terminate the Credit Agreement, however, the Bank has extended the maturity date on the Credit Agreement to August 15, 2010. The Company is working diligently to establish a corporate lending relationship with a new financial institution for the Company's US operations prior to August 15, 2010, the revised maturity date under the Credit Agreement, to refinance outstanding debt with the Bank prior to its revised maturity. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully refinance the debt due to the Bank. If the Company is unable to refinance the debt due to the Bank prior to its revised maturity or if the Company defaults under the terms of the Credit Agreement prior to its revised maturity and the Bank were to accelerate the maturity of such indebtedness, the Company does not have sufficient liquidity to pay off the indebtedness owed to the Bank, and the Bank would be entitled to exercise all of its rights and remedies as a secured lender under the Credit Agreement. In addition, the Company's two subsidiaries, TMM and TPT have short-term credit facilities and term loans at banks in Malaysia and the Netherlands, respectively. At December 31, 2009, TMM's borrowings under the credit facilities and term loans with HSBC Bank Malaysia, Bhd. ("HSBC") and RHB Bank, Bhd. ("RHB") totaled $332,000 and TPT's borrowings under the credit facility and term loans with Rabobank totaled $2,709,000. The credit facilities with HSBC, RHB and Rabobank are subject to demand provisions and are subject to certain subjective acceleration covenants based on the judgment of the banks. While the banks have made no indication that they will demand payment of the debt in Malaysia or in the Netherlands, there can be no assurances that this debt will not be called for payment. If it is called for repayment, we may be unable to refinance such indebtedness, and if we are unable, the lenders could foreclose on the assets of TMM and TPT. Our ability to continue to operate as a going concern is dependent on our ability to improve our operating cash flows to a sufficient level, successfully negotiate with our US lending institution or establish a corporate lending relationship with a new financial institution, and/or raise sufficient new capital. There can be no assurance these changes in our operations or our financing initiatives will be successful. - 11 - • Our foreign debt is subject to subjective acceleration provisions and demand provisions that allow our lending institutions to accelerate payment at any time. If our foreign debt were accelerated under the demand provisions, our working capital and financial condition would be severely impacted. Our subsidiaries have loan agreements with banks in Malaysia and the Netherlands that provide short-term credit facilities and term loans. These borrowings are subject to certain subjective acceleration provisions based on the judgment of the banks and demand provisions that provide that the banks may demand repayment at any time. We believe such a demand provision is customary in Malaysia and the Netherlands for such facilities. At December 31, 2009, our foreign debt consisted of $1,213,000 under the short-term credit facilities and $1,950,000 under the term loans and financial lease agreements. The foreign banks have made no indication that they will demand payment of any of our loans in Malaysia or the Netherlands; however, there can be no assurances that this debt will not be called in the future, particularly in light of the financial difficulties being currently experienced by the Company. If demand is made by the banks, we may require additional debt or equity financing to meet our working capital and operational requirements or, if required, to refinance maturing or demanded indebtedness. Should we find it necessary to raise additional funds, we may find that such funds are either not available or available only on terms that are unattractive in terms of shareholders' interest, or both, and if this debt could not be repaid or refinanced, the banks could foreclose and sell our foreign operations or hold same as collateral security for these loans, and pursue collection against our guarantees of such loans which would adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. (See "Liquidity, Capital Resources and Other Financial Information" on page 33). • We may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market if the price of our common shares drop under $1.00 per share. Under NASDAQ rules, a stock listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market must maintain a minimum bid price of at least $1.00 per share. On September 15, 2009, we received notice from the NASDAQ Stock Market stating that for thirty (30) consecutive business days, the bid price of the Company's common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion on NASDAQ under Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2). The Company had until March 15, 2010 to regain compliance with the minimum bid price. As a result, the Company effected a one for five reverse stock split effective February 19, 2010, which resulted in the price of our common shares closing at an amount greater than $1.00 per share. If the trading price of our common stock falls below $1.00 again, we may not be able to take any measures to regain compliance, and our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. - 12 - • Our business is affected by global economic factors including risks associated with declining economic conditions. Our financial results are substantially dependent upon overall economic conditions in the United States, the European Union and Asia. Declining economic conditions in all or any of these locations - - or negative perceptions about economic conditions - could result in a substantial decrease in demand for our products and could adversely affect our business. Indeed, as a result of the current economic downturn, we have experienced decreased demand for many of our products. This, in turn, caused us to breach financial ratio covenants in our Credit Agreement for the quarters ended December 31, 2008 and March 31, 2009. Uncertain economic conditions and market instability make it difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers to forecast demand trends. Continued declines in demand would place additional pressure on our results of operations. The timing and extent of any changes to currently prevailing market conditions is uncertain and supply and demand may be unbalanced at any time. As a consequence, at present, we are unable to accurately predict future economic conditions or the effect of such conditions on our financial conditions or results of operations, and we can give no assurances as to the timing, extent or duration of the current or future economic cycles impacting our industry. • Costs of raw materials and energy have resulted, and may continue to result, in increased operating expenses and reduced results of operations. We purchase large amounts of raw materials and energy for our manufacturing operations. The cost of these raw materials and energy, in the aggregate, represent a substantial portion of our operating expenses. The costs of raw materials and energy generally follow price trends of, and vary with the market conditions for crude oil and natural gas, which may be highly volatile and cyclical. Many raw material and energy costs have recently experienced significant fluctuations, reaching historically record high levels. Moreover, the fluctuation of the US dollar to other currencies adds to the volatility in raw material costs. There have been, and will likely continue to be, periods of time when we are unable to pass raw material and energy cost increases on to our customers quickly enough to avoid adverse impacts on our results of operations. For example, in 2008 we reduced production in the US approximately 31% primarily due to the increased cost of natural gas and freight related to shipping SR from Malaysia to our US operation Our results of operations have been, and could be in the future, significantly affected by increases and volatility in these costs. Cost increases also may increase working capital needs, which could reduce our liquidity and cash flow. In addition, when raw material and energy costs increase rapidly and are passed along to customers as product price increases, the credit risks associated with certain customers can be compounded. To the extent we increase our product sales prices to reflect rising raw material and energy costs, demand for products may decrease as customers reduce their consumption and use substitute products, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. • Climate change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could adversely impact our results of operations. In addition to the possible direct economic impact that climate change could have on us, climate change regulation could significantly increase our costs. Energy costs are a significant component of our overall costs, and climate change regulation may result in significant increases in the cost of energy. - 13 - • We have one primary source for SR and, if that source was not available, we could not produce our primary product, HITOX. TMM is our primary source for SR. There is only one other available source for the quality of SR required for the production of HITOX. If supplies of SR from TMM are interrupted and we are unable to arrange for this alternative source, this could result in our inability to produce HITOX which accounted for approximately 42% of our sales for the year ended December 31, 2009. • We are dependent on a limited number of customers and could experience significant revenue reductions if they use alternative sources. We derive a significant portion of our revenue each quarter from a limited number of customers. Our top 10 customers accounted for 42%, 37% and 38% of our sales revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As a result, a decrease in sales volume of any one of our top 10 customers could have a material impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. For the year ended December 31, 2009, BASF Corporation represented 18.2% of our total consolidated sales, and the loss of this customer could have a material impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. • Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely impact our financial condition. Because we own assets located outside the United States and have revenues and expenses in currencies other than the US Dollar, we may incur currency transaction and translation losses due to changes in the values of foreign currencies and in the value of the US Dollar. Foreign currency exposure from transactions and commitments denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are managed by selectively entering into derivative transactions. Translation exposure associated with translating the functional currency financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into US Dollars is generally not hedged. Upon translation to the US Dollar, operating results could be significantly affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We cannot predict the effect of changes in exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. (See "Foreign Operations - Impact of Exchange Rate" on page 43). • We borrow funds from time to time from members of our board of directors for working capital purposes. In the past, we have had to borrow funds from members of our board of directors for working capital purposes. We most likely will require additional working capital loans in the future, but it is also possible that such loans from our board members would not be available because they have made no commitment to provide additional loans. - 14 - • We are required to make estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. In preparing our financial statements in conformity with GAAP, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ from previously estimated amounts under different conditions and assumptions. • Our competitors are established companies that have greater experience than us in a number of crucial areas, including manufacturing and distribution. There is intense competition with respect to each of our products. In order to maintain sales volume, we must consistently deliver high quality products on schedule at competitive prices. Our competitors range from large corporations with full lines of production capabilities and products, such as E. I. DuPont de Nemours & Co., Inc., Millenium Chemicals, Kronos, Inc., and J. M. Huber, to small local firms specializing in one or two products. The established companies have significantly greater experience than us in manufacturing and distributing products and have considerably more resources and market share. We may have difficulty in competing with these companies. • Our US operation is located on the Gulf of Mexico coastline and could be adversely affected by hurricanes. We may be subject to work stoppages for hurricanes, particularly during the period ranging from June to November. If a hurricane is severe and our Corpus Christi plant incurs heavy damage and prolonged downtime, which may not be fully covered by insurance, our financial results would be adversely affected. • Doing business in foreign countries carries certain risks that are not found in doing business in the US. We currently derive a portion of our revenues from operations in Malaysia and the Netherlands and we source our SR from Malaysia, which is the critical raw material we require for the production of our primary product, HITOX. We believe that currently the risks of doing business in Malaysia and the Netherlands are not significant, however, future risks of doing business in these countries which could result in losses against which we are not insured include, but are not limited to, the following: • Potential adverse changes in diplomatic relations of foreign countries with the United States of America • Terrorism • Disruptions caused by possible foreign conflicts • Hostility from local populations • Adverse effect of currency exchange controls • Restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign investment and earnings • Government policies against businesses owned by foreigners • Foreign exchange restrictions • Changes in taxation structure - 15 - Item 1 B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the date of this report, we did not have any unresolved staff comments. Item 