Risk Factors Our results of operations and revenues may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including cyclical changes in the insurance industry, which may cause the price of our securities to be volatile. The results of operations of companies in the property and casualty insurance industry historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. Our profitability can be affected significantly by: · rising levels of loss costs that we cannot anticipate at the time we price our coverages; · volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made, weather-related and other natural catastrophes or terrorist attacks; · changes in the level of reinsurance capacity; · changes in the amount of loss reserves resulting from new types of claims and new or changing judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurers’ liabilities; and · fluctuations in equity markets and interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment, which affect returns on invested assets and may impact the ultimate payout of losses. In addition, the demand for property and casualty insurance can vary significantly, rising as the overall level of economic activity increases and falling as that activity decreases, causing our revenues to fluctuate. These fluctuations in results of operations and revenues may cause the price of our securities to be volatile. Catastrophic losses, including those caused by natural disasters, such as earthquakes and hurricanes, or man-made events such as terrorist attacks, are inherently unpredictable and could cause us to suffer material financial losses. The greatest potential risk of loss we face in the ordinary course of our business is property damage resulting from catastrophic events, particularly earthquakes on the West Coast and hurricanes and tropical storms affecting Hawaii or the continental U.S. Most of our past catastrophe-related claims have resulted from earthquakes and hurricanes. For example, we incurred a pre-tax net loss of $64.3 million related to the 1994 Northridge earthquake. In recent years, hurricanes have had a significant impact on our results. We incurred a pre-tax loss of $22.5 million from the 2005 hurricanes, Katrina, Rita, and Wilma. We also incurred a pre-tax loss of $9.9 million from the 2004 hurricanes, Charley, Frances, and Ivan. Catastrophes can also be caused by various events, including windstorms, hailstorms, explosions, severe winter weather, and fires and may include terrorist events such as the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon on September 11, 2001. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Most catastrophes are restricted to fairly specific geographic areas; however, hurricanes and earthquakes may produce significant damage in large, heavily populated areas. Catastrophes can cause losses in a variety of our property and casualty segments, and it is possible that a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could cause us to suffer material financial losses. Actual insured losses may be greater than our loss reserves, which would negatively impact our profitability. Significant periods of time often elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to us and our payment of that loss. To recognize liabilities for unpaid losses, we establish reserves as balance sheet liabilities representing estimates of amounts needed to pay reported and unreported losses and the related loss adjustment expenses. Loss reserves are just an estimate of what we anticipate the ultimate costs of claims to be and do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Estimating loss reserves is a difficult and complex process involving many variables and subjective judgments. As part of the reserving process, we review historical data and consider the impact of various factors such as: · loss emergence patterns; · underlying policy terms and conditions; · business and exposure mix; · trends in claim frequency and severity; · changes in operations; · emerging economic and social trends; · inflation; and · changes in the regulatory and litigation environments. 31 This process assumes that past experience, adjusted for the effects of current developments and anticipated trends, is an appropriate basis for predicting future events. There is no precise method, however, for evaluating the impact of any specific factor on the adequacy of reserves, and actual results are likely to differ from original estimates. If the actual amount of insured losses is greater than the amount we have reserved for these losses, our profitability could suffer. We may suffer losses from litigation, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and business operations. As is typical in our industry, we face risks associated with litigation. For example, we are currently involved in a complex litigation arising out of an equipment and vehicle leasing program of Commercial Money Center (CMC). We were also a defendant in complex private litigation brought against insurance brokers and insurance companies which alleges injury from the payment of contingent commissions by insurers to brokers, but have been released from the suit without payment of any settlement fees. These lawsuits are described in further detail in Item 3, Legal Proceedings. While it is impossible to ascertain the ultimate outcome of the CMC matter at this time, we believe, based upon facts known to date, that our positions are meritorious and that the final resolution of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations, taken as a whole. However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and if there were an outcome unfavorable to us in the CMC matter or another matter, there exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our results of operations in the period in which the outcome occurs. Our reinsurers may not pay on losses in a timely fashion, or at all, which may increase our costs. We purchase reinsurance by transferring part of the risk we have assumed (known as ceding) to a reinsurance company in exchange for part of the premium we receive in connection with the risk. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred or ceded to the reinsurer, it does not relieve us (the reinsured) of our liability to our policyholders. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. That is, our reinsurers may not pay claims made by us on a timely basis, or they may not pay some or all of these claims, for a variety of reasons. Either of these events would increase our costs and could have a materially adverse effect on our business. If we cannot obtain adequate reinsurance protection for the risks we have underwritten, we may be exposed to greater losses from these risks or we may reduce the amount of business we underwrite, which will reduce our revenues. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection that we purchase. In addition, the historical results of reinsurance programs and the availability of capital also affect the availability of reinsurance. Our reinsurance facilities are generally subject to annual renewal. We cannot be sure that we can maintain our current reinsurance facilities or that we can obtain other reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. If we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance facilities on terms we deem acceptable, either our net exposures would increase - which could increase our costs - or, if we were unwilling to bear an increase in net exposures, we would have to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments - especially catastrophe exposed risks - which would reduce our revenues. Our investment results and, therefore, our financial condition may be impacted by changes in the business, financial condition or operating results of the entities in which we invest, as well as changes in interest rates, government monetary policies, general economic conditions and overall market conditions. We invest the premiums we receive from customers until they are needed to pay policyholder claims or until they are recognized as profits. At December 31, 2007, our investment portfolio consisted of $1.4 billion in fixed income securities, $393.7 million in equity securities and $73.7 million in short-term investments. For the 12 months ended December 31, 2007, we experienced a $14.7 million pre-tax unrealized loss on our investment portfolio. However, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, we experienced $34.4 million in pre-tax unrealized gains on our investment portfolio. The 2007 loss and the 2006 gain reflect primarily the overall stock market and bond market fluctuations experienced during those periods. Fluctuations in the value of our investment portfolio can occur as a result of changes in the business, financial condition or operating results of the entities in which we invest, as well as changes in interest rates, government monetary policies and general economic conditions. These fluctuations may, in turn, negatively impact our financial condition. 32 Recent market activity put pressure on securities containing subprime mortgage exposure. We define subprime mortgages as loans which include one or more of the following: a weak credit score (FICO score of less than 640), high debt-to-income ratio, high loan-to-value ratio, or undocumented income. Our exposure to subprime is through direct investments in subprime-backed mortgage products and is less than $10 million. All of these securities are rated AAA and have been paying as agreed. These securities are fixed rate, exclude interest rate resets, were issued prior to 2005, and are not currently on watch from any major rating agency. We compete with a large number of companies in the insurance industry for underwriting revenues. We compete with a large number of other companies in our selected lines of business. We face competition both from specialty insurance companies, underwriting agencies and intermediaries, as well as diversified financial services companies that are significantly larger than we are and that have significantly greater financial, marketing, management and other resources than we do. Some of these competitors also have significantly greater experience and market recognition than we do. We may incur increased costs in competing for underwriting revenues. If we are unable to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate or to expand our operations into new markets, our underwriting revenues may decline, as well as overall business results. A number of new, proposed or potential legislative or industry developments could further increase competition in our industry. These developments include: · an increase in capital-raising by companies in our lines of business, which could result in new entrants to our markets and an excess of capital in the industry; · the deregulation of commercial insurance lines in certain states and the possibility of federal regulatory reform of the insurance industry, which could increase competition from standard carriers for our excess and surplus lines of insurance business; · programs in which state-sponsored entities provide property insurance in catastrophe-prone areas or other “alternative markets” types of coverage; and · changing practices caused by the Internet, which may lead to greater competition in the insurance business. New competition from these developments could cause the supply and/or demand for insurance or reinsurance to change, which could affect our ability to price our coverages at attractive rates and thereby adversely affect our underwriting results. A downgrade in our ratings from A.M. Best, Standard & Poor’s, or Moody’s could negatively affect our business. Ratings are a critical factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Our insurance companies are rated by A.M. Best, Standard & Poor’s, and Moody’s. A.M. Best, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s ratings reflect their opinions of an insurance company’s and an insurance holding company’s financial strength, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders, and are not evaluations directed to investors. Our ratings are subject to periodic review by such firms, and we cannot assure the continued maintenance of our current ratings. All of our ratings were reviewed during 2007. A.M. Best reaffirmed its “A+, Superior” rating for the combined entity of RLI Insurance Company, Mt. Hawley Insurance Company, and RLI Indemnity Company (RLI Group). Standard and Poor’s reaffirmed our “A+, Strong” rating for the group. Moody’s reaffirmed our group rating of “A2, Good” for RLI Group. Because these ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies, if our ratings are reduced from their current levels by any of A.M. Best, Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s, our competitive position in the industry, and therefore our business, could be adversely affected. A significant downgrade could result in a substantial loss of business as policyholders might move to other companies with higher claims-paying and financial strength ratings. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which may adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. Moreover, if we fail to comply with these regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including fines and suspensions, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than shareholders and other investors. These regulations, generally administered by a department of insurance in each state in which we do business, relate to, among other things: · approval of policy forms and premium rates; · standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; · licensing of insurers and their producers; 33 · restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; · restrictions on the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends to us; · restrictions on transactions between insurance company subsidiaries and their affiliates; · restrictions on the size of risks insurable under a single policy; · requiring deposits for the benefit of policyholders; · requiring certain methods of accounting; · periodic examinations of our operations and finances; · prescribing the form and content of records of financial condition required to be filed; and · requiring reserves for unearned premium, losses and other purposes. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to financial condition, holding company issues and other matters. These regulatory requirements may adversely affect or inhibit our ability to achieve some or all of our business objectives. In addition, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. In some instances, we follow practices based on our interpretations of regulations or practices that we believe may be generally followed by the industry. These practices may turn out to be different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us. This could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Further, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance industry or changes in laws or regulations themselves or interpretations by regulatory authorities could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. In addition to regulations specific to the insurance industry, as a public company we are also subject to regulation by the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange, each of which regulate many areas such as financial and business disclosures, corporate governance, and shareholder matters. We monitor these regulations and rules on an ongoing basis, and make appropriate changes as necessary. Implementing such changes may require adjustments to our business methods, increase our costs and other changes that could cause us to be less competitive in our industry. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified key employees. We depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers, experienced underwriting talent and other skilled employees who are knowledgeable about our business. If we cannot attract or retain top-performing executive officers, underwriters, and other personnel, or if the quality of their performance decreases, we may be unable to maintain our current competitive position in the specialized markets in which we operate and be unable to expand our operations into new markets. We are an insurance holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends from our insurance subsidiaries in needed amounts. RLI Corp. is the holding company for our three principal insurance operating companies. At the holding company level, our principal assets are the shares of capital stock of our insurance company subsidiaries. We may rely on dividends from our insurance company subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, dividends to shareholders and corporate expenses. The payment of dividends by our insurance company subsidiaries will depend on the surplus and future earnings of these subsidiaries and is also subject to regulatory restrictions. The maximum dividend distribution is limited by Illinois law to the greater of 10 percent of RLI Insurance Company’s policyholder surplus as of December 31 of the preceding year or their net income for the 12-month period ending December 31 of the preceding year. These levels may be exceeded in some cases with prior approval from the Illinois Department of Insurance. The maximum dividend distribution that can be paid by RLI Insurance Company during 2008 without prior insurance department approval is $126.2 million, or RLI Insurance Company’s 2007 net income. As a result, we may not be able to receive dividends from our subsidiaries at times and in amounts necessary to meet our debt service obligations or to pay dividends to our shareholders or corporate expenses. During 2007, RLI Insurance Company paid total dividends of $149.7 million to RLI Corp. after obtaining permission for special dividends from the Illinois Department of Insurance. 34 Anti-takeover provisions affecting us could prevent or delay a change of control that is beneficial to you. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws, and provisions of applicable Illinois law and applicable federal and state regulations may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, tender offer or other change of control that holders of our securities may consider favorable. Certain of these provisions impose various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions. These provisions could: · have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us; · discourage bids for our securities at a premium over the market price; · adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our securities; or · impede the ability of the holders of our securities to change our management. Breaches or interruptions of our computer systems could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on multiple computer systems to issue policies, pay claims, run modeling functions, and complete various internal processes. These systems may be exposed to unplanned interruption, unreliability, and data breaches. Any such issues could materially impact our company, including the impairment of information availability, compromise of system integrity/accuracy, reduction of our volume of transactions, and interruption of our general business. Although we believe we currently have adequate safeguards in place, we cannot guarantee that such problems will never occur. If they do, interruption to our business and related costs could be significant, which could impair our profitability. We may not be able to effectively start up or integrate a new product opportunity. Our ability to grow our business depends in part on our creation, implementation and acquisition of new insurance products that are profitable and fit within our business model. New product launches are subject to many obstacles, including ensuring we have sufficient business and systems processes, determining appropriate pricing, assessing opportunity costs and regulatory burdens, and planning for internal infrastructure needs. If we cannot accurately assess and overcome these obstacles or we improperly implement new insurance products, our ability to grow organically and profitably will be impaired. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 