Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors identified by the Company’s management represent significant potential risks that the Company faces in its operations. The Company’s Business May Be Adversely Affected by Conditions in the Financial Markets and Economic Conditions Generally. Since December 2007, the United States has been in a recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many businesses are in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has increased significantly. Since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions. Financial institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in Federal Reserve borrowing rates and other government actions. Some banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. The foregoing has significantly weakened the strength and liquidity of some financial institutions worldwide. In 2008, the U.S. government, the Federal Reserve and other regulators have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, including investing approximately $250 billion in the equity of other banking organizations, but asset values have continued to decline and access to liquidity continues to be very limited. The Company’s financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon on the business 24 Table of Contents environment in the markets where the Company operates, in Western New York and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. Overall, during 2008, the business environment has been adverse for many households and businesses in the United States and worldwide. It is expected that the business environment in Western New York, the United States and worldwide will continue to deteriorate for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. Such conditions could materially adversely affect the credit quality of the Company’s loans and leases, and therefore, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Direct Financing Leases Expose the Company to Increased Credit Risks. At December 31, 2008, the Company’s portfolio of direct financing leases originated through ENL totaled $58.6 million, or 14.4% of total loans and leases outstanding. The leasing portfolio increased by $13.5 million, or 29.9%, from December 31, 2007. The leasing portfolio has been the Company’s fastest-growing segment of its loan and lease portfolio and earns the highest yield compared to other loans that the Company offers. The Company is able to earn the relatively higher yield on these leases because of the higher amount of credit risk assumed in the portfolio. In addition, the leasing portfolio carries a higher risk due to its exposure to certain states that have experienced higher-than-average credit issues such as California, Florida, and Texas. These risks are reflected in the fact that the leases have the highest rate of charge-offs among the Company’s loan and lease portfolio. As ENL is a relatively young company, having commenced operations December 31, 2004, the Company has little history to support a projection as to what a long-term run-rate of charge-offs will be. 2008 was the worst economic environment since the Company purchased ENL and as expected, the worsening economy had a significantly adverse effect on the leasing portfolio. Net charge-offs increased from $0.9 million to $2.0 million. A further deterioration in the credit quality of the leasing portfolio could negatively impact earnings and cause the Company to further tighten lending standards to lessees, which could significantly slow one of the fastest-growing segments of the Company’s loan portfolio. This would also impinge future growth in net interest income as the fast-growing leasing portfolio has buttressed the Company’s overall net interest income growth since ENL’s inception. At December 31, 2008, the Company had $1.9 million in goodwill associated with ENL. Significant declines in the performance of the Company’s direct financing lease portfolio could result in impairment of that goodwill. Commercial Real Estate and Commercial Business Loans Expose the Company to Increased Credit Risks. At December 31, 2008, the Company’s portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $180.4 million, or 44.2% of total loans and leases outstanding and the Company’s portfolio of commercial business loans totaled $46.1 million, or 11.3% of total loans and leases outstanding. The Company plans to continue to emphasize the origination of commercial loans. Commercial loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of commercial real estate and business loans often depends on the successful operations and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to four-family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of the Company’s commercial borrowers have more than one commercial real estate or business loan outstanding with the Company. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Company to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to four-family residential mortgage loan. Continuing Concentration of Loans in the Company’s Primary Market Area May Increase the Company’s Risk. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in western New York State. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers located primarily in western New York State. The Company’s business lending and marketing strategies focus on loans to small- to medium-sized businesses in this geographic region. Moreover, the Company’s assets are heavily concentrated in mortgages on properties located in western New York State. Accordingly, the Company’s business and operations are vulnerable to downturns in the economy of Western New York State. The concentration of the Company’s loans in this geographic region subjects the Company to the risk that a downturn in the economy or recession in this region could result in a decrease in loan originations and increases in delinquencies and foreclosures, which would more greatly affect the Company than if the Company’s lending were more geographically diversified. In addition, the Company may suffer losses if there is a decline in the value of properties underlying the Company’s mortgage loans which would have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operations. 25 Table of Contents In the Event the Company’s Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan and Lease Losses, the Company’s Earnings Could Decrease. The Company maintains an allowance for loan and lease losses in order to capture the probable losses inherent in its loan portfolio. There is a risk that the Company may experience significant loan and lease losses which could exceed the allowance for loan and lease losses. In determining the amount of the Company’s recorded allowance, the Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of its loan and lease portfolio, including the creditworthiness of its borrowers, the effect of changes in the local economy on the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans, the effects on the Company’s loan and lease portfolio of current economic indicators and their probable impact on borrowers, and the Company’s loan quality reviews. In addition, bank regulators periodically review the Company’s loan and lease portfolio and credit underwriting procedures, as well as its allowance for loan and lease losses, and may require the Company to increase its provision for loan and lease losses or recognize further loan and lease charge-offs. At December 31, 2008, the Company had a net loan portfolio of approximately $401.6 million and the allowance for loan and lease losses was approximately $6.1 million, which represented 1.49% of the total amount of gross loans and leases. If the Company’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect or bank regulators require the Company to increase its provision for loan and lease losses or recognize further loan and lease charge-offs, the Company may have to increase its allowance for loan and lease losses or loan and lease charge-offs which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurances that the Company’s allowance for loan and lease losses will be adequate to protect the Company against loan and lease losses that it may incur. Changes in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. The Company’s results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. The Company’s results of operations depend substantially on its net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on its interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on its interest-bearing liabilities. Because the Company’s interest-bearing liabilities generally re-price or mature more quickly than its interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would tend to result in a decrease in its net interest income. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of the Company’s interest-earning assets, and in particular, the Company’s securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2008, the Company’s securities available for sale totaled $73.8 million. Net unrealized gains on securities available for sale, net of tax, amounted to $0.7 million and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale, therefore, could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity or earnings. The Company also is subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, the Company is subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that it is unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. The Company May Be Adversely Affected by the Soundness of Other Financial Institutions Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of counterparty relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry. The most important counterparty for the Company, in terms of liquidity, is the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (“FHLBNY”). The Company uses FHLBNY as its primary source of overnight funds and also has several long-term advances with FHLBNY. At December 31, 2008, the Company had a total of $48.6 million in borrowed funds with FHLBNY. The Company has placed sufficient collateral in the form of residential real estate loans at FHLBNY. As a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System, the Bank is required to hold stock in FHLBNY. The Bank held FHLBNY stock worth $2.7 million as of December 31, 2008. There are 12 branches of the FHLB, including New York. Several members have warned that they have either breached risk-based capital requirements or that they are close to breaching those requirements. To conserve capital, some FHLB branches are suspending dividends, cutting dividend payments, and not buying back excess FHLB stock that members hold. FHLBNY has stated that they expect to be able to continue to pay dividends, redeem excess capital stock, and provide competitively priced advances in the future. The most severe problems in FHLB have been at some of the other 26 Table of Contents FHLB branches. Nonetheless, the 12 FHLB branches are jointly liable for the consolidated obligations of the FHLB system. To the extent that one FHLB branch cannot meet its obligations to pay its share of the system’s debt, other FHLB branches can be called upon to make the payment. Systematic weakness in the FHLB could result in higher costs of FHLB borrowings, reduced value of FHLB stock, and increased demand for alternative sources of liquidity that are more expensive, such as brokered time deposits, the discount window at the Federal Reserve, or lines of credit with correspondent banks First Tennessee and M&T Bank. Strong Competition Within the Company’s Market Area May Limit its Growth and Profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. The Company competes with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally within the Company’s market area and elsewhere. Many of these competitors (whether regional or national institutions) have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Company does, and may offer certain services that the Company does not or cannot provide. The Company’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in this market area. Expansion of the Company’s Branch Network May Adversely Affect its Financial Results. The Company has increased its retail branch network from eight branches to twelve branches by opening de novo branches in five of the last six years. In addition, the Company plans on opening another branch in late 2009, and its strategy is to continue to grow its branch network through de novo branching and acquisitions. The Company can not assure that its branch expansion strategy will be accretive to earnings or that it will be accretive to earnings within a reasonable period of time. Numerous factors contribute to the performance of a new branch, such as suitable location, qualified personnel, and an effective marketing strategy. Additionally, it takes time for a new branch to gather sufficient loans and deposits to generate income sufficient to cover its operating expenses. Difficulties the Company experiences in implementing its growth strategy may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company Operates in a Highly Regulated Environment and May Be Adversely Affected By Changes in Laws and Regulations. The Company is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, FRB, and by the FDIC, as insurer of its deposits. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a bank and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and depositors. Regulatory requirements affect the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank and the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan and lease losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material adverse impact on the Bank, the Company and its business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 