Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors identified by the Company’s management represent significant potential risks that the Company faces in its operations. The Company’s Business May Be Adversely Affected by Conditions in the Financial Markets and Economic Conditions Generally. Since December 2007, the United States has been in a recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions has been greatly reduced and local governments and many businesses are in serious difficulty due to rising unemployment, the lack of consumer spending, a faltering housing market, and reduced liquidity in the credit markets. Since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. In 2009, there was some recovery in the value of some asset classes, but the economy remains weak with high unemployment, lower property values, and low consumer confidence. The Company’s financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and leases and the value of collateral securing those loans and leases, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Company operates, in Western New York and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, declines in housing and real estate valuations, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. Overall, during 2009, the business environment has been adverse for many households and businesses in the United States and worldwide. It is expected that the business environment in Western New York, the United States and worldwide will be slow to recover from the 2008-2009 recession. There can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. Such conditions could materially adversely affect the credit quality of the Company’s loans and leases, and therefore, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. National Direct Financing Lease Portfolio Exposes the Company to Increased Credit Risks. At December 31, 2009, the book value of the Company’s national portfolio of direct financing leases originated through ENL was $31.5 million, or 6.4% of total loans and leases outstanding. The $31.5 million book value represents $35.7 million in lease principal balance, net of the remaining mark of $4.2 million. $2.9 million of those leases were in non-accrual status at December 31, 2009. There was no allowance for lease losses associated with this portfolio at December 31, 2009 as there has been no additional deterioration in credit quality since the portfolio was written down in the second quarter of 2009. Due to the increasing credit risks, poor performance in the portfolio, the lack of strategic fit with the Company’s community banking philosophy, and with the intention of reallocating capital back to its core business, management announced its exit from the national leasing business in April 2009. The Company still faces the challenge of collecting the remainder of the portfolio, which puts the Company at risk for future losses. In 2009, the provision for lease losses was $6.8 million, net charge-offs, including the mark-to-market adjustment of $7.1 million, were $9.3 million, and the entire goodwill balance of $2.0 million was written off. The portfolio balance peaked at December 31, 2008 at $58.6 million, or 14.4% of total loans and leases. Most of the Company’s leases are small-ticket general business equipment leases originated through brokers. With 1,897 active leases, the average balance per lease at December 31, 2009 was $19 thousand. In many cases, the collateral for the leases has a low market value and, with lessees in other states far from the Company’s primary market area, is difficult to retrieve in the case of a delinquent customer. Also, the lessees tend to be small businesses, which have a more difficult time withstanding a poor economic environment than larger and more established middle market customers. In addition, the leasing portfolio is exposed to certain states that have experienced higher-than-average credit issues and property devaluation such as California and Florida. These risks are reflected in the fact that the leases in those states have the highest rate of charge-offs among the Company’s lease portfolio. While management believes that the losses in the leasing portfolio will be less in 2010 as the book value of the portfolio is already down 46.3% from last year end, there remains significant risk of future losses in the portfolio due to the nature of the customers, collateral, and geography of the business and its heightened sensitivity to the continued adverse 26 Table of Contents economic factors. Continued weakness in the lease portfolio could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. Commercial Real Estate and Commercial Business Loans Expose the Company to Increased Credit Risks. At December 31, 2009, the Company’s portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $241.1 million, or 49.3% of total loans and leases outstanding and the Company’s portfolio of commercial business loans totaled $60.3 million, or 12.3% of total loans and leases outstanding. The Company plans to continue to emphasize the origination of commercial loans as they generally earn a higher rate of interest than other loan products offered by the Bank. Commercial loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of commercial real estate and business loans often depends on the successful operations and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to four-family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of the Company’s commercial borrowers have more than one commercial real estate or business loan outstanding with the Company. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Company to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to four-family residential mortgage loan. Commercial real estate loans in non-accrual status at December 31, 2009 were $2.7 million, compared with $1.8 million at December 31, 2008. There were also $4.0 million in commercial real estate loans that were still accruing interest at December 31, 2009, but were over 90 days past due. Management believes that these loans are well secured and in the process of collection. Commercial loans in nonaccrual status at December 31, 2009 were $1.4 million, compared with $0.3 million at December 31, 2008. Continuing Concentration of Loans in the Company’s Primary Market Area May Increase the Company’s Risk. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers located primarily in western New York State. Therefore, the Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in western New York State. The Company’s business lending and marketing strategies focus on loans to small- to medium-sized businesses in this geographic region. Moreover, the Company’s assets are heavily concentrated in mortgages on properties located in western New York State. Accordingly, the Company’s business and operations are vulnerable to downturns in the economy of western New York State. The concentration of the Company’s loans in this geographic region subjects the Company to the risk that a downturn in the economy or recession in this region could result in a decrease in loan originations and increases in delinquencies and foreclosures, which would more greatly affect the Company than if the Company’s lending were more geographically diversified. In addition, the Company may suffer losses if there is a decline in the value of properties underlying the Company’s mortgage loans which would have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operations. The Company has not seen this type of deterioration in the current credit cycle. In the Event the Company’s Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan and Lease Losses, the Company’s Earnings Could Decrease. The Company maintains an allowance for loan and lease losses in order to capture the probable losses inherent in its loan and lease portfolio. There is a risk that the Company may experience significant loan and lease losses which could exceed the allowance for loan and lease losses. In determining the amount of the Company’s recorded allowance, the Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of its loan and lease portfolio, including the creditworthiness of its borrowers, the effect of changes in the local economy on the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans, the effects on the Company’s loan and lease portfolio of current economic indicators and their probable impact on borrowers, and the Company’s loan quality reviews. In addition, bank regulators periodically review the Company’s loan and lease portfolio and credit underwriting procedures, as well as its allowance for loan and lease losses, and may require the Company to increase its provision for loan and lease losses or recognize further loan and lease charge-offs. At December 31, 2009, the Company had a net loan portfolio of approximately $482.6 million and the allowance for loan and lease losses was approximately $7.0 million, which represented 1.42% of the total amount of gross loans and leases. If the Company’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect or bank regulators require the Company to increase its provision for loan and lease losses or recognize further loan and lease charge-offs, the Company may have to increase its allowance for loan and lease losses or loan and lease charge-offs which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurances that the Company’s allowance for loan and lease losses will be adequate to protect the Company against loan and lease losses that it may incur. 27 Table of Contents Changes in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. The Company’s results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. The Company’s results of operations depend substantially on its net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on its interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on its interest-bearing liabilities. Because the Company’s interest-bearing liabilities generally re-price or mature more quickly than its interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would tend to result in a decrease in its net interest income. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of the Company’s interest-earning assets, and in particular, the Company’s securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2009, the Company’s securities available for sale totaled $75.9 million. Net unrealized gains on securities available for sale, net of tax, amounted to $1.0 million and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale, therefore, could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity or earnings. The Company also is subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, the Company is subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that it is unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. The Company May Be Adversely Affected by the Soundness of Other Financial Institutions Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of counterparty relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry. The most important counterparty for the Company, in terms of liquidity, is the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (“FHLBNY”). The Company uses FHLBNY as its primary source of overnight funds and also has several long-term advances with FHLBNY. At December 31, 2009, the Company had a total of $46.1 million in borrowed funds with FHLBNY. The Company has placed sufficient collateral in the form of commercial and residential real estate loans at FHLBNY. As a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System, the Bank is required to hold stock in FHLBNY. The Bank held FHLBNY stock with a fair value of $2.7 million as of December 31, 2009. The Bank’s FHLBNY stock average yield in 2009 was 4.6%. There are 12 branches of the FHLB, including New York. Several members have warned that they have either breached risk-based capital requirements or that they are close to breaching those requirements. To conserve capital, some FHLB branches are suspending dividends, cutting dividend payments, and not buying back excess FHLB stock that members hold. FHLBNY has stated that they expect to be able to continue to pay dividends, redeem excess capital stock, and provide competitively priced advances in the future. The most severe problems in FHLB have been at some of the other FHLB branches. Nonetheless, the 12 FHLB branches are jointly liable for the consolidated obligations of the FHLB system. To the extent that one FHLB branch cannot meet its obligations to pay its share of the system’s debt, other FHLB branches can be called upon to make the payment. Systemic weakness in the FHLB could result in higher costs of FHLB borrowings, reduced value of FHLB stock, and increased demand for alternative sources of liquidity that are more expensive, such as brokered time deposits, the discount window at the Federal Reserve, or lines of credit with correspondent banks First Tennessee and M&T Bank. Strong Competition Within the Company’s Market Area May Limit its Growth and Profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. The Company competes with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally within the Company’s market area and elsewhere. Many of these competitors (whether regional or national institutions) have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Company does, and may offer certain services that the Company does not or cannot provide. The Company’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in this market area. Expansion of the Company’s Branch Network May Adversely Affect its Financial Results. The Company has increased its retail branch network from eight branches to thirteen branches by opening de novo branches in five of the last seven years. In addition, the Company plans on opening another branch in 2010, and its 28 Table of Contents strategy is to continue to grow its branch network through de novo branching and acquisitions. The Company can not assure that its branch expansion strategy will be accretive to earnings or that it will be accretive to earnings within a reasonable period of time. Numerous factors contribute to the performance of a new branch, such as suitable location, qualified personnel, and an effective marketing strategy. Additionally, it takes time for a new branch to gather sufficient loans and deposits to generate income sufficient to cover its operating expenses. Difficulties the Company experiences in implementing its growth strategy may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company Operates in a Highly Regulated Environment and May Be Adversely Affected By Changes in Laws and Regulations. The Company is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, FRB, and by the FDIC, as insurer of its deposits. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a bank and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and depositors. Regulatory requirements affect the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the imposition of deposit insurance premiums and other assessments, the classification of assets by a bank and the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan and lease losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material adverse impact on the Bank, the Company and its business, financial condition and results of operations. Lack of System Integrity or Credit Quality Related to Funds Settlement could Result in a Financial Loss. The Bank settles funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses and consumers and receives funds from clients, card issuers, payment networks and consumers on a daily basis for a variety of transaction types. Transactions facilitated by the Bank include debit card, credit card and electronic bill payment transactions, supporting consumers, financial institutions and other businesses. These payment activities rely upon the technology infrastructure that facilitates the verification of activity with counterparties and the facilitation of the payment. If the continuity of operations or integrity of processing were compromised this could result in a financial loss to the Bank, and therefore the Company, due to a failure in payment facilitation. In addition, the Bank may issue credit to consumers, financial institutions or other businesses as part of the funds settlement. A default on this credit by a counterparty could result in a financial loss to Bank, and therefore to the Company. Financial Services Companies Depend on the Accuracy and Completeness of Information about Customers and Counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, the Company may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports, and other financial information. The Company may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties, or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. While management generally engages only third parties that it knows or believes to be reputable, reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports, or other financial information could cause the Company to enter into unfavorable transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company May Not be Able to Attract and Retain Skilled Personnel. The Company’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain skilled personnel. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by the Company can be intense, and the Company may not be able to hire sufficiently skilled people or to retain them despite its best efforts to be an employer of choice. The loss of services of one or more of the Company’s key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business because of their skills, knowledge of our markets, years of industry experience, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Loss of Key Employees May Disrupt Relationships with Certain Customers. The Company’s business is primarily relationship-driven in that many of the Company’s key employees have extensive customer relationships. Loss of a key employee with such customer relationships may lead to the loss of business if the customers were to follow that employee to a competitor. While management believes that the Company’s relationships with its key business producers are good, the Company cannot guarantee that all of its key personnel will remain with the organization. Loss of such key personnel, should they enter into an employment relationship with one of the Company’s competitors, could result in the loss of some of the Company’s 29 Table of Contents customers. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Because the Nature of the Financial Services Business Involves a High Volume of Transactions, the Company Faces Significant Operational Risks. The Company operates in diverse markets and relies on the ability of its employees and systems to process a high number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from the Company’s operations, including but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of the Company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, and business continuation and disaster recovery. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, the Company could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action and suffer damage to its reputation. The Company’s Information Systems may Experience an Interruption or Breach in Security. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Potential for Business Interruption Exists Throughout the Company’s Organization. Integral to the Company’s performance is the continued efficacy of our technical systems, operational infrastructure, relationships with third parties and the vast array of associates and key executives in the Company’s day-to-day and ongoing operations. Failure by any or all of these resources subjects the Company to risks that may vary in size, scale and scope. This includes, but is not limited to, operational or technical failures, ineffectiveness or exposure due to interruption in third party support as expected, as well as the loss of key individuals or failure on the part of key individuals to perform properly. Although management has established policies and procedures to address such failures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 