risk factors described in Item 1A, as well as in the Company’s periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Many of these factors are beyond the Company’s control and are difficult to predict. Because of these and other uncertainties, the Company’s actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those contemplated, expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained herein. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise forward-looking information, whether as a result of new, updated information, future events or otherwise. Item 1. BUSINESS EVANS BANCORP, INC. Evans Bancorp, Inc. (the “Company”) is a New York business corporation which is registered as a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHCA”). The principal offices of the Company are located at 14-16 North Main Street, Angola, NY 14006 and its telephone number is (716) 926-2000. The Company’s administrative office is located at One Grimsby Drive in Hamburg, NY. This facility is occupied by the Office of the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, as well as the Administrative and Loan Divisions of Evans Bank. The Company was incorporated on October 28, 1988, but the continuity of its banking business is traced to the organization of the Evans National Bank of Angola on January 20, 1920. Except as the context otherwise requires, the Company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries are collectively referred to in this report as the “Company.” The Company’s common stock is traded on NYSE-Amex under the symbol “EVBN.” At December 31, 2011, the Company had consolidated total assets of $740.9 million, deposits of $616.2 million and stockholders’ equity of $69.0 million. The Company’s primary business is the operation of its subsidiaries. It does not engage in any other substantial business activities. The Company has two direct wholly-owned subsidiaries: (1) Evans Bank, N.A. (“Evans Bank” or the “Bank”), which provides a full range of banking services to consumer and commercial customers in Western New York; and (2) Evans National Financial Services, LLC (“ENFS”), which owns 100% of the membership interests in The Evans Agency, LLC (“TEA”), which sells various premium-based insurance policies on a commission basis. At December 31, 2011, the Bank represented 98.7% and ENFS represented 1.3% of the consolidated assets of the Company. Further discussion of our segments is included in Note 18 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 5 Table of Contents Evans Bank The Bank is a nationally chartered bank that has its headquarters and a full-service banking office at 14 North Main Street, Angola, NY, and a total of 13 full-service banking offices in Erie County and Chautauqua County, NY. At December 31, 2011, the Bank had total assets of $730.9 million, investment securities of $103.8 million, net loans of $571.9 million, deposits of $616.2 million and stockholders’ equity of $61.0 million, compared to total assets of $660.6 million, investment securities of $89.6 million, net loans of $517.6 million, deposits of $544.5 million and stockholders’ equity of $56.0 million at December 31, 2010. The Bank offers deposit products, which include checking and NOW accounts, savings accounts, and certificates of deposit, as its principal source of funding. The Bank’s deposits are insured up to the maximum permitted by the Bank Insurance Fund (the “Insurance Fund”) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”). The Bank offers a variety of loan products to its customers, including commercial and consumer loans and commercial and residential mortgage loans. As is the case with banking institutions generally, the Bank’s operations are significantly influenced by general economic conditions and by related monetary and fiscal policies of banking regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve Board (“FRB”) and FDIC. The Bank is also subject to the supervision, regulation and examination of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency of the United States of America (the “OCC”). The Evans Agency, LLC TEA, a retail property and casualty insurance agency, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of ENFS. TEA is headquartered in Angola, NY, with offices located throughout Western New York. TEA is a full-service insurance agency offering personal, commercial and financial services products. For the year ended December 31, 2011, TEA had total revenue of $6.9 million. TEA’s primary market area is Erie, Chautauqua, Cattaraugus and Niagara counties. Most lines of personal insurance are provided, including automobile, homeowners, boat, recreational vehicle, landlord, and umbrella coverage. Commercial insurance products are also provided, consisting of property, liability, automobile, inland marine, workers compensation, bonds, crop and umbrella insurance. TEA also provides the following financial services products: life and disability insurance, Medicare supplements, long term care, annuities, mutual funds, retirement programs and New York State Disability. Other Subsidiaries In addition to the Bank and TEA, the Company has the following direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries: Evans National Leasing, Inc. (“ENL”). ENL, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bank, provided direct financing leasing of commercial small-ticket general business equipment to companies located throughout the contiguous 48 United States. The Company announced in April 2009 that it was exiting the leasing business. After attempting to sell the leasing portfolio, management decided to service it through to maturity, anticipated to be in approximately 2014. Evans National Holding Corp. (“ENHC”). ENHC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bank, operates as a real estate investment trust that holds commercial real estate loans and residential mortgages, providing additional flexibility and planning opportunities for the business of the Bank. Suchak Data Systems, LLC (“SDS”). SDS, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bank, serves the data processing needs of financial institutions with customized solutions and consulting services. SDS hosts the Bank’s core and primary banking systems and provides product development and programming services. SDS’s products and services for its other customers include online banking systems, check imaging, item processing, and automated teller machine (“ATM”) services. Evans National Financial Services, LLC (“ENFS”). ENFS is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. ENFS’s primary business is to own the business and assets of the Company’s non-banking financial services subsidiaries. ENB Associates Inc. (“ENBA”). ENBA, a wholly-owned subsidiary of TEA, offers non-deposit investment products, such as annuities and mutual funds. Frontier Claims Services, Inc. (“FCS”). FCS is a wholly-owned subsidiary of TEA and provides claims adjusting services to various insurance companies. 6 Table of Contents The Company also has two special purpose entities: Evans Capital Trust I, a statutory trust formed on September 29, 2004 under the Delaware Statutory Trust Act, solely for the purpose of issuing and selling certain securities representing undivided beneficial interests in the assets of the trust, investing the proceeds thereof in certain debentures of the Company and engaging in those activities necessary, advisable or incidental thereto; and ENB Employers Insurance Trust, a Delaware trust company formed in February 2003 for the sole purpose of holding life insurance policies under the Bank’s bank-owned life insurance (“BOLI”) program. The Company operates in two operating segments – banking activities and insurance agency activities. See Note 18 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information on the Company’s operating segments. MARKET AREA The Company’s primary market area is Erie County, Niagara County, northern Chautauqua County and northwestern Cattaraugus County, NY. This primary market area is the area where the Bank principally receives deposits and makes loans and TEA sells insurance. Even though ENL conducts business outside of this defined market area, this activity is not deemed to expand the Company’s primary market. MARKET RISK For information about, and a discussion of, the Company’s “Market Risk,” see Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Market Risk” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. COMPETITION All phases of the Company’s business are highly competitive. The Company competes actively with local, regional and national financial institutions, as well as with bank branches and insurance agency offices in the Company’s primary market area of Erie County, Niagara County, northern Chautauqua County, and northwestern Cattaraugus County, NY. These Western New York counties have a high density of financial institutions, many of which are significantly larger and have greater financial resources than the Company. The Company faces competition for loans and deposits from other commercial banks, savings banks, internet banks, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking companies, credit unions, insurance companies and other financial services companies. The Company faces additional competition for deposits and insurance business from non-depository competitors such as the mutual fund industry, securities and brokerage firms, and insurance companies and brokerages. In the personal insurance area, the majority of TEA’s competition comes from direct writers, as well as some small local agencies located in the same towns and villages in which TEA has offices. In the commercial business segment, the majority of the competition comes from larger agencies located in and around Buffalo, NY. By offering the large number of carriers which it has available to its customers, TEA has attempted to remain competitive in all aspects of its business. As an approximate indication of the Company’s competitive position, in Erie County, NY, where 12 of the Company’s 13 banking offices are located, the Bank had the sixth most deposits according to the FDIC’s annual deposit market share report as of June 30, 2011 with 2.3% of the total market’s deposits of $23.7 billion. By comparison, the market leaders, M&T Bank and First Niagara Financial Group, have 56.4% of the county’s deposits combined. (These figures are pro forma, assuming the completion of the announced sale of HSBC USA deposits to First Niagara and KeyCorp.) The Company attempts to be generally competitive with all financial institutions in its service area with respect to interest rates paid on time and savings deposits, service charges on deposit accounts, and interest rates charged on loans. SUPERVISION AND REGULATION Bank holding companies and banks are extensively regulated under both federal and state laws and regulations that are intended to protect depositors and investors. Because the Company is a public company with shares traded on the NYSE-Amex, it is subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the listing standards required by NYSE-Amex. To the extent that the following information describes statutory and regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statutory and regulatory provisions. Any change in the applicable law or regulation, or a change in the way such laws or regulations are interpreted by regulatory agencies or courts, may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Bank Holding Company Regulation (BHCA) As a financial holding company registered under the BHCA, the Company and its non-banking subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision under the BHCA by the FRB. The FRB requires periodic reports from the Company, and 7 Table of Contents is authorized by the BHCA to make regular examinations of the Company and its subsidiaries. Under Regulation Y, a bank holding company must serve as a source of financial and managerial strength for its subsidiary banks and must not conduct its operations in an unsafe or unsound manner. The Company is required to obtain the prior approval of the FRB before acquiring all or substantially all of the assets of, or direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of, a bank or bank holding company. The FRB will not approve any acquisition, merger or consolidation that would have a substantial anti-competitive result, unless the anti-competitive effects of the proposed transaction are outweighed by a greater public interest in meeting the needs and convenience of the public. The FRB also considers managerial, capital and other financial factors in acting on acquisition or merger applications. A bank holding company may not engage in, or acquire direct or indirect control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any company engaged in any non-banking activity, unless such activity has been determined by the FRB to be closely related to banking or managing banks. The FRB has identified by regulation various non-banking activities in which a bank holding company may engage with notice to, or prior approval by, the FRB. The FRB has enforcement powers over financial holding companies and their subsidiaries, among other things, to interdict activities that represent unsafe or unsound practices or constitute violations of law, rule, regulation, administrative orders, or written agreements with a federal bank regulator. These powers may be exercised through the issuance of cease and desist orders, civil monetary penalties or other actions. Bank holding companies and their subsidiary banks are also subject to the provisions of the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”). Under the terms of the CRA, the FRB (or other appropriate bank regulatory agency, in the case of the Bank, the OCC) is required, in connection with its examination of a bank, to assess such bank’s record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by that bank, including low and moderate-income neighborhoods. Furthermore, such assessment is taken into account in evaluating any application made by a bank holding company or a bank for, among other things, approval of a branch or other deposit facility, office relocation, a merger or an acquisition of bank shares. Supervision and Regulation of Bank Subsidiaries The Bank is a nationally chartered banking corporation subject to supervision, examination and regulation by the FRB, the FDIC and the OCC. These regulators have the power to enjoin “unsafe or unsound practices,” require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, direct an increase in capital, restrict the growth of a bank, assess civil monetary penalties, and remove a bank’s officers and directors. The operations of the Bank are subject to numerous statutes and regulations. Such statutes and regulations relate to required reserves against deposits, investments, loans, mergers and consolidations, issuance of securities, payment of dividends, establishment of branches, and other aspects of the Bank’s operations. Various consumer laws and regulations also affect the operations of the Bank, including state usury laws, laws relating to fiduciaries, consumer credit and equal credit, fair credit reporting, and privacy of non-public financial information. The Bank is subject to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W there under, which govern certain transactions, such as loans, extensions of credit, investments and purchases of assets between member banks and their affiliates, including their parent holding companies. These restrictions limit the transfer from its subsidiaries, including the Bank, of funds to the Company in the form of loans, extensions of credit, investments or purchases of assets (collectively, “Transfers”), and they require that the Bank’s transactions with the Company be on terms no less favorable to the Bank than comparable transactions between the Bank and unrelated third parties. Transfers by the Bank to any affiliate (including the Company) are limited in amount to 10% of the Bank’s capital and surplus, and transfers to all affiliates are limited in the aggregate to 20% of the Bank’s capital and surplus. Furthermore, such loans and extensions of credit are also subject to various collateral requirements. These regulations and restrictions may limit the Company’s ability to obtain funds from the Bank for its cash needs, including funds for acquisitions, and the payment of dividends, interest and operating expenses. The Bank is prohibited from engaging in certain tying arrangements in connection with any extension of credit, lease or sale of property or furnishing of services. For example, the Bank may not generally require a customer to obtain other services from the Bank or the Company, and may not require the customer to promise not to obtain other services from a competitor as a condition to an extension of credit. The Bank is also subject to certain restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Act on extensions of credit to executive officers, directors, principal stockholders or any related interest of such persons. Extensions of credit: (i) must be made on substantially the same terms (including interest rates and 8 Table of Contents collateral) as those prevailing at the time for, and following credit underwriting procedures that are not less stringent than those applicable to, comparable transactions with persons not covered above and who are not employees, and (ii) must not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features. The Bank is also subject to certain lending limits and restrictions on overdrafts to such persons. A violation of these restrictions may result in the assessment of substantial civil monetary penalties on the Bank or any officer, director, employee, agent or other person participating in the conduct of the affairs of the Bank or the imposition of a cease and desist order. As insurer, the FDIC imposes deposit insurance premiums and is authorized to conduct examinations of and to require reporting by, insured institutions. It may also prohibit an insured institution from engaging in any activity the FDIC determines by regulation or order to pose a serious threat to the FDIC. The FDIC also has the authority to initiate enforcement actions against insured institutions. The FDIC may terminate the deposit insurance of any insured depository institution, including the Bank, if it determines after a hearing that the institution has engaged or is engaging in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, order or any condition imposed by an agreement with the FDIC. The FDIC has adopted a risk-based premium system that provides for quarterly assessments based on an insured institution’s ranking in one of four risk categories based on their examination ratings and capital ratios. In addition, all FDIC-insured institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC to fund interest payments on bonds issued by the Financing Corporation (“FICO”), a mixed-ownership Federal government corporation established to recapitalize the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. The current annualized assessment rate is 0.66 basis points, or approximately 0.165 basis points per quarter. These assessments will continue until the Financing Corporation bonds mature in 2019. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the deposit insurance assessment base was redefined in 2011 to reflect consolidated total assets less average tangible equity. The result is that larger financial institutions, which have more assets leveraged with non-deposit wholesale funds, generally have paid a greater percentage of the aggregate insurance assessment and smaller banks, including the Bank, have paid less. Regulations promulgated by the FDIC pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 place limitations on the ability of certain insured depository institutions to accept, renew or rollover deposits by offering rates of interest which are significantly higher than the prevailing rates of interest on deposits offered by other depository institutions having the same type of charter in such depository institutions’ normal market area. Under these regulations, well-capitalized institutions may accept, renew or rollover such deposits without restriction, while adequately capitalized institutions may accept, renew or rollover such deposits with a waiver from the FDIC (subject to certain restrictions on payment of rates). Undercapitalized institutions may not accept, renew or rollover such deposits. Under the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989, a depository institution insured by the FDIC can be held liable for any loss incurred by, or reasonably expected to be incurred by, the FDIC in connection with: (i) the default of a commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institution, or (ii) any assistance provided by the FDIC to a commonly controlled FDIC-insured institution in danger of default. “Default” is defined generally as the appointment of a conservator or receiver, and “in danger of default” is defined generally as the existence of certain conditions indicating that, in the opinion of the appropriate banking agency, a “default” is likely to occur in the absence of regulatory assistance. In addition to the forgoing, federal regulators have adopted regulations and examination procedures promoting the safety and soundness of individual institutions by specifically addressing, among other things: (i) internal controls, information systems and internal audit systems; (ii) loan documentation; (iii) credit underwriting; (iv) interest rate exposure; (v) asset growth; (vi) ratio of classified assets to capital; (vii) minimum earnings; and (viii) compensation and benefits standards for management officials. Federal Reserve Board’s regulations, for example, generally require a holding company to give the Federal Reserve Board prior notice of any redemption or repurchase of its own equity securities, if the consideration to be paid, together with the consideration paid for any repurchases or redemptions in the preceding year, is equal to 10% or more of the company’s consolidated net worth. The Federal Reserve Board has broad authority to prohibit activities of bank holding companies and their non-banking subsidiaries which represent unsafe and unsound banking practices or which constitute violations of laws or regulations, and can assess civil money penalties for certain activities conducted on a knowing and reckless basis, if those activities caused a substantial loss to a depository institution. Dividends paid by the Bank have been the Company’s primary source of operating funds and are expected to be for the foreseeable future. Capital adequacy requirements serve to limit the amount of dividends that may be paid by the Bank. Under OCC regulations, the Bank may not pay a dividend, without prior OCC approval, if the total amount of all dividends declared during the calendar year, including the proposed dividend, exceed the sum of its retained net income to date during the calendar year and its retained net income over the preceding two years. As of December 31, 2011, approximately $6.3 million was available for the payment of dividends without prior OCC approval. The Bank’s ability 9 Table of Contents to pay dividends is also subject to the Bank being in compliance with regulatory capital requirements. As indicated below, the Bank is currently in compliance with these requirements. Because the Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank, the Company’s right to participate in the distribution of assets of the Bank in the event of the Bank’s liquidation or reorganization would be subject to the prior claims of the Bank’s creditors. In the event of a liquidation or other resolution of an insured depository institution, the claims of depositors and other general or subordinated creditors are entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of unsecured, non-deposit creditors, including a parent bank holding company (such as the Company) or any shareholder or creditor thereof. The FRB, the OCC and other federal banking agencies have broad enforcement powers, including the power to terminate deposit insurance, to impose substantial fines and other civil and criminal penalties, and to appoint a conservator or receiver for the assets of a regulated entity. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and supervisory agreements could subject the Company or its subsidiaries, as well as officers, directors and other institution-affiliated parties of these organizations, to administrative sanctions and potential civil monetary penalties. Capital Adequacy The FRB, the FDIC and the OCC have adopted risk-based capital adequacy guidelines for bank holding companies and banks under their supervision. Under these guidelines, the so-called “Tier 1 capital” and “Total capital” as a percentage of risk-weighted assets and certain off-balance sheet instruments must be at least 4% and 8%, respectively. The FRB, the FDIC and the OCC have also imposed a leverage standard to supplement their risk-based ratios. This leverage standard focuses on a banking institution’s ratio of Tier 1 capital to average total assets, adjusted for goodwill and certain other items. Under these guidelines, banking institutions that meet certain criteria, including excellent asset quality, high liquidity, low interest rate exposure and good earnings, and that have received the highest regulatory rating must maintain a ratio of Tier 1 capital to total adjusted average assets of at least 3%. Institutions not meeting these criteria, as well as institutions with supervisory, financial or operational weaknesses, along with those experiencing or anticipating significant growth, are expected to maintain a Tier 1 capital to total adjusted average assets ratio equal to at least 4%. As reflected in the following table, the risk-based capital ratios and leverage ratios of the Company and the Bank as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 exceeded the required capital ratios for classification as “well capitalized,” the highest classification under the regulatory capital guidelines. Capital Components and Ratios at December 31, (dollars in thousands) 0000000000 0000000000 0000000000 0000000000 0000000000 0000000000 0000000000 0000000000 2011 (dollars in thousands) Company Bank Minimum for CapitalAdequacyPurposes Minimum to be WellCapitalized UnderPrompt CorrectiveAction Provisions Amount Ratio Amount Ratio Amount Ratio Amount Ratio Total Risk-Based Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets) $78,173 14.0% $75,050 13.5% $44,575 8.0% $55,719 10.0% Tier I Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets) $71,152 12.8% $68,043 12.2% $22,288 4.0% $33,431 6.0% Tier I Capital (to Average Assets) $71,152 9.7% $68,043 9.3% $29,309 4.0% $36,637 5.0% 10 Table of Contents 2010 (dollars in thousands) Company Bank Minimum for CapitalAdequacyPurposes Minimum to be WellCapitalized UnderPrompt CorrectiveAction Provisions Amount Ratio Amount Ratio Amount Ratio Amount Ratio Total Risk-Based Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets) $71,889 14.3% $70,110 14.0% $40,186 8.0% $50,233 10.0% Tier I Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets) $65,559 13.1% $63,797 12.7% $20,093 4.0% $30,140 6.0% Tier I Capital (to Average Assets) $65,559 9.9% $63,797 9.7% $26,405 4.0% $33,006 5.0% The federal banking agencies, including the FRB and the OCC, maintain risk-based capital standards in order to ensure that those standards take adequate account of interest rate risk, concentration of credit risk, the risk of non-traditional activities and equity investments in non-financial companies, as well as reflect the actual performance and expected risk of loss on certain multifamily housing loans. Bank regulators periodically propose amendments to the risk-based capital guidelines and related regulatory framework, and consider changes to the risk-based capital standards that could significantly increase the amount of capital needed to meet the requirements for the capital tiers described below. While the Company’s management studies such proposals, the timing of adoption, ultimate form and effect of any such proposed amendments on the Company’s capital requirements and operations cannot be predicted. The federal banking agencies are required to take “prompt corrective action” in respect of depository institutions and their bank holding companies that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act established five capital tiers: “well capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized.” A depository institution’s capital tier, or that of its bank holding company, depends upon where its capital levels are in relation to various relevant capital measures, including a risk-based capital measure and a leverage ratio capital measure, and certain other factors. Under the implementing regulations adopted by the federal banking agencies, a bank holding company or bank is considered “well capitalized” if it has: (i) a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater; (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% or greater; and (iii) a leverage ratio of 5% or greater; and is not subject to any order or written directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for a capital measure. An “adequately capitalized” bank holding company or bank is defined as one that has: (i) a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% or greater; (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4% or greater; and (iii) a leverage ratio of 4% or greater (or 3% or greater in the case of a bank with a composite CAMELS rating of (1)). A bank holding company or bank is considered (A) “undercapitalized” if it has: (i) a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 8%; (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4%; or (iii) a leverage ratio of less than 4% (or 3% in the case of a bank with a composite CAMELS rating of (1)); (B) “significantly undercapitalized” if it has: (i) a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 6%; or (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 3%; or (iii) a leverage ratio of less than 3%; and (C) “critically undercapitalized” if it has a ratio of tangible equity to total assets equal to or less than 2%. The FRB may reclassify a “well capitalized” bank holding company or bank as “adequately capitalized” or subject an “adequately capitalized” or “undercapitalized” institution to the supervisory actions applicable to the next lower capital category if it determines that the bank holding company or bank is in an unsafe or unsound condition or deems the bank holding company or bank to be engaged in an unsafe or unsound practice and not to have corrected the deficiency. As of December 31, 2011, the Company and the Bank met the definition of “well capitalized” institutions. “Undercapitalized” depository institutions, among other things: are subject to growth limitations; are prohibited, with certain exceptions, from making capital distributions; are limited in their ability to obtain funding from a Federal Reserve Bank; and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. The federal banking agencies may not accept a capital plan without determining, among other things, that the plan is based on realistic assumptions and is likely to succeed in restoring the depository institution’s capital. In addition, for a capital restoration plan to be acceptable, the depository institution’s parent holding company must guarantee that the institution will comply with such capital restoration plan and provide appropriate assurances of performance. If a depository institution fails to submit an acceptable plan, including if the holding company refuses or is unable to make the guarantee described in the previous sentence, it is treated as if it is “significantly undercapitalized.” Failure to submit or implement an acceptable capital plan also is grounds for the appointment of a conservator or a receiver. “Significantly undercapitalized” depository institutions may be subject to a number of additional requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become “adequately capitalized,” requirements to reduce total assets and cessation of receipt of deposits from 11 Table of Contents correspondent banks. Moreover, the parent holding company of a “significantly undercapitalized” depository institution may be ordered to divest itself of the institution or of non-bank subsidiaries of the holding company. “Critically undercapitalized” institutions, among other things, are prohibited from making any payments of principal and interest on subordinated debt, and are subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator. Each federal banking agency prescribes standards for depository institutions and depository institution holding companies relating to internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, compensation, a maximum ratio of classified assets to capital, minimum earnings sufficient to absorb losses, a minimum ratio of market value to book value for publicly traded shares and other standards as they deem appropriate. The FRB and the OCC have adopted such standards. Regulation of Insurance Agency Subsidiary TEA is regulated by the New York State Insurance Department. It meets and maintains all licensing and continuing education requirements required by the State of New York. Monetary Policy and Economic Control The commercial banking business is affected not only by general economic conditions, but also by the monetary policies of the FRB. Changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowing, availability of borrowing at the “discount window,” open market operations, the imposition of changes in reserve requirements against member banks’ deposits and assets of foreign branches and the imposition of and changes in reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates are some of the instruments of monetary policy available to the FRB. These monetary policies are used in varying combinations to influence overall growth and distributions of bank loans, investments and deposits, and this use may affect interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. The monetary policies of the FRB have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The monetary policies of these agencies are influenced by various factors, including inflation, unemployment, and short-term and long-term changes in the international trade balance and in the fiscal policies of the United States Government. Future monetary policies and the effect of such policies on the future business and earnings of the Company cannot be predicted. Consumer Laws and Regulations In addition to the laws and regulations discussed herein, the Bank is also subject to certain consumer laws and regulations that are designed to protect consumers in transactions with banks. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Federal Financial Privacy Laws, Interagency Guidelines Establishing Information Security Standards, the Right to Financial Privacy Act, and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Reporting Act. These laws and regulations regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with customers when taking deposits or making loans to such customers. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) was signed into law by President Obama on July 21, 2010. It is widely regarded as the most sweeping change to financial regulation since the Great Depression. The law is intended to achieve the following objectives: promote robust supervision and regulation of financial firms; establish comprehensive supervision of financial markets; protect consumers and investors from financial abuse; provide the government with the tools to manage a financial crisis; and raise international regulatory standards and improve international cooperation. The Dodd-Frank Act requires more than 60 studies to be conducted and more than 200 regulations to be written over the next one to two years. The true impact of the legislation will be unknown until these are complete. The Dodd-Frank Act is organized around sixteen titles: I. Financial Stability – creates a new oversight regulator, the Financial Stability Oversight Council. The council of regulators will monitor the financial system for systemic risk and will determine which entities pose significant systemic risk. One of the key provisions of this title is the so-called Collins Amendment, which imposes a stricter application of risk-based capital requirements for bank holding companies than was previously employed. Under the Collins Amendment, certain depository institutions will not be permitted to include trust preferred securities issued after May 19, 2010 in Tier 1 capital. For depository institutions with greater than $15 billion in assets, trust preferred securities issued before May 19, 2010 will be phased out as a component of Tier 1 Capital over three years beginning January 1, 2013. Evans Bancorp 12 Table of Contents has $11.3 million in trust preferred securities included in Tier 1 Capital, but with an asset size of $740.9 million, is well under the $15 billion exemption threshold. II. Orderly Liquidation Authority – establishes a framework for the liquidation by the FDIC of large institutions that pose systemic risk. III. Transfer of Powers to the OCC, FDIC, and the FRB – merges the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”) into the OCC. The OTS regulatory responsibilities have been spread among other regulators. As a nationally chartered bank regulated by the FRB, FDIC, and OCC, Evans Bank is not impacted by the abolishment of the OTS. This title also includes a number of deposit insurance reforms. The first redefines the deposit insurance assessment base to reflect consolidated total assets less average tangible equity. The result is that larger financial institutions, which have more assets leveraged with non-deposit wholesale funds, have paid a greater percentage of the aggregate insurance assessment and smaller banks have paid less than they would have. Evans Bank has benefited from this provision with its FDIC deposit insurance expenses declining from $1.02 million in 2010 to $0.65 million in 2011. This title also increases the minimum reserve ratio of the Deposit Insurance Fund from 1.15% to 1.35%, but exempts institutions with assets less than $10 billion from the cost of the increase. The title also permanently increases deposit insurance coverage to $250,000 and fully covers non-interest bearing transactions accounts through 2012. IV. Regulation of Advisers to Hedge Funds and Others – requires most advisors to private funds to register with the SEC. V. Insurance – establishes the Federal Insurance Office, housed in the Office of the Treasury. It is to review the insurance industry and study for Congress the federal regulation of insurance. VI. Improvements to Regulation of Bank and Savings Associations Holding Companies and Depository Institutions – this title implements the so-called Volcker Rule. The rule limits the ability of certain bank and bank-related entities to engage in proprietary trading or investing in hedge funds and private equity funds to 3% of the entity’s Tier 1 capital. This provision does not have a material impact on Evans Bank as the Bank does not engage in proprietary trading and has immaterial investments in any private funds. VII. Wall Street Transparency and Accountability – imposes exchange trading for derivatives contracts and imposes new capital and margin requirements and various reporting obligations on Over the Counter (“OTC”) swap dealers and major OTC swap participants. This title has no impact on the Company. VIII. Payment, Clearing, and Settlement Provision – allows for a systemic approach to certain financial market payment, clearing, and settlement systems. Designations as systemically important will be made by the Financial Stability Oversight Council. IX. Investor Protections and Improvement to the Regulation of Securities – has a number of provisions intended to protect investors, including for example: risk retention requirements for certain asset-backed securities; reforms to regulation of credit ratings agencies; establishing an Investor Advisory Committee and an Office of Investor Advocate, and requiring the SEC to study whether a fiduciary duty standard of care for broker-dealers providing personalized investment advice to a retail customer should be created. There are several corporate governance procedures established in this title, including: proxy access requirements for shareholders; disclosure about the failure to separate the role of the chair of the board of directors and chief executive officer; shareholder voting on executive compensation; the establishment of an independent compensation committee; executive compensation disclosures and claw backs. In addition, the Federal Reserve is required to issue regulations regarding incentive-based pay practices for institutions with more than $1 billion in assets. This title also provides that companies with a public market capitalization under $75 million are permanently exempt from the provisions of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“SOX”), which requires that public companies receive an opinion from their external auditors as to the effectiveness of their internal controls over financial reporting. Under this provision, Evans Bancorp would be exempt from SOX 404(b) as it had a public market capitalization of $56.3 million as of June 30, 2011 (the most recent measurement date). However, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and the Company’s management have decided to continue to voluntarily comply with SOX 404(b) as they believe it is in the best interest of the Company. This title also requires the SEC to conduct a study of companies with market capitalization between $75 million and $250 million to determine how the SEC could reduce the burden of complying with the internal control audit requirements. 13 Table of Contents X. Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection – establishes the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (“BCFP”), an independent entity housed with the Federal Reserve. The title gives the BCFP the authority to prohibit practices that it finds to be unfair, deceptive, or abusive in addition to requiring certain disclosures. An important provision of this title limits interchange fees for debit card transactions to an amount established as reasonable under regulations to be issued by the Federal Reserve. Cards issued by banks with less than $10 billion in assets are exempt from this requirement. Despite being exempt from this provision, it is possible that the Bank may be impacted by this provision if the Bank has to match the reduced rates being offered by larger competitors. This could potentially result in the loss of hundreds of thousands of dollars of revenue. XI. Federal Reserve System Revisions – gives the Government Accountability Office (“GAO”) authority to conduct a one-time audit of the Federal Reserve emergency lending during the credit crisis and gives the GAO other auditing responsibilities over the Federal Reserve. XII. Improving Access to Mainstream Financial Institutions – is intended to provide alternatives to payday loans. This title is intended to encourage low and moderate income individuals to create accounts in insured depository institutions and it creates a program to provide low-cost loans of $2,500 or less. XIII. Pay It Back Act – reduces the TARP funds authorized under EESA from $700 billion to $475 billion. XIV. Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act – places new regulations on mortgage originators and imposes new disclosure requirements and appraisal reforms, including: the creation of a mortgage originator duty of care; the establishment of certain underwriting requirements so that at the time of origination the consumer has a reasonable ability to repay the loan; the creation of document requirements intended to eliminate “no document” and “low document” loans; the prohibition of steering incentives for mortgage originators; a prohibition on yield spread premiums and prepayment penalties in some cases; and a provision that allows borrowers to assert as a foreclosure defense a contention that the lender violated the anti-steering restrictions or the reasonable repayment requirements. XV. Miscellaneous Provisions – among other things, restricts certain loans to the International Monetary Fund; orders the SEC to require disclosures regarding mining of conflict minerals and payments made in acquisition of certain mining and exploration licenses, and to report on mine safety; and requires additional studies. XVI. Section 1256 Contracts – adds a new provision to the Internal Revenue Code involving futures, swaps, and option contracts. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2011, the Company had no direct employees. As of December 31, 2011, the following table summarizes the employment rosters of the Company’s subsidiaries using full-time equivalent employees (“FTE”): $000000 $000000 $000000 $000000 $000000 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Bank 186 164 147 148 129 ENL 2 4 7 12 11 TEA 50 52 57 58 55 FCS 4 4 4 4 4 242 224 215 222 199 Management believes that the Company’s subsidiaries have good relationships with their employees. AVAILABLE INFORMATION The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished by the Company pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available without charge on the Company’s website, www.evansbancorp.com - SEC filings section, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The Company is providing the address to its Internet site solely for the information of investors. The Company does not intend the address to be an active link or to otherwise incorporate the contents of the website into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or into any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC. 14 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors identified by the Company’s management represent significant potential risks that the Company faces in its operations. The Company’s Business May Be Adversely Affected by Conditions in the Financial Markets and Economic Conditions Generally The United States was in an economic recession from December 2007-June 2009, according to the U.S. National Bureau of Economic Research. While the recession is technically over, economic growth has been muted and the unemployment rate remains high at 8.5% (per the U.S. Department of Labor) as of December 31, 2011. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions has been greatly reduced and local governments and many businesses are in serious difficulty due to the high unemployment rate, the lack of consumer spending, and a faltering housing market. The recession was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. Since the end of the recession there has been some recovery in the value of some asset classes, but the economy remains weak with high unemployment, lower property values, and low consumer confidence. The Company’s financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and leases and the value of collateral securing those loans and leases, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Company operates, in Western New York and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, declines in housing and real estate valuations, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. Overall, during 2011, the business environment continued to be adverse for many households and businesses in the United States and worldwide. It is expected that the business environment in Western New York, the United States and worldwide will continue to be slow to recover from the recession. There can be no assurance that these conditions will improve substantially in the near term. Such conditions could materially adversely affect the credit quality of the Company’s loans and leases, and therefore, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Commercial Real Estate and Commercial Business Loans Expose the Company to Increased Credit Risks At December 31, 2011, the Company’s portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $334.6 million, or 57.4% of total loans and leases outstanding, and the Company’s portfolio of commercial and industrial (“C&I”) loans totaled $109.5 million, or 18.8% of total loans and leases outstanding. The Company plans to continue to emphasize the origination of commercial loans as they generally earn a higher rate of interest than other loan products offered by the Bank. Commercial loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of commercial real estate and C&I loans often depends on the successful operations and the income stream of the borrowers. Commercial mortgages are collateralized by real property while C&I loans are typically secured by business assets such as equipment and accounts receivable. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to four-family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of the Company’s commercial borrowers have more than one commercial real estate or C&I loan outstanding with the Company. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Company to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to four-family residential mortgage loan. Commercial real estate loans in non-accrual status at December 31, 2011 were $8.3 million, compared with $6.6 million at December 31, 2010. C&I loans in non-accrual status at December 31, 2011 were $2.2 million, the same as at December 31, 2010. Further increases in the delinquency levels of commercial real estate and C&I loans could result in an increase in non-performing loans and provision for loan and lease losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Continuing Concentration of Loans in the Company’s Primary Market Area May Increase the Company’s Risk Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers located primarily in western New York State (“WNY”). Therefore, the Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in WNY. The Company’s business lending and marketing strategies focus on loans to small and medium-sized businesses in this geographic region. Moreover, the Company’s assets are heavily concentrated in mortgages on properties located in WNY. Accordingly, the Company’s business and operations are 15 Table of Contents vulnerable to downturns in the economy of WNY. The concentration of the Company’s loans in this geographic region subjects the Company to the risk that a downturn in the economy or recession in this region could result in a decrease in loan originations and increases in delinquencies and foreclosures, which would more greatly affect the Company than if the Company’s lending were more geographically diversified. In addition, the Company may suffer losses if there is a decline in the value of properties underlying the Company’s mortgage loans which would have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operations. In the Event the Company’s Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan and Lease Losses, the Company’s Earnings Could Decrease The Company maintains an allowance for loan and lease losses in order to capture the probable losses inherent in its loan and lease portfolio. There is a risk that the Company may experience significant loan and lease losses which could exceed the allowance for loan and lease losses. In determining the amount of the Company’s recorded allowance, the Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of its loan and lease portfolio, including the creditworthiness of its borrowers, the effect of changes in the local economy on the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans, the effects on the Company’s loan and lease portfolio of current economic indicators and their probable impact on borrowers, and the Company’s loan quality reviews. Our emphasis on the origination of commercial real estate and C&I loans is a significant factor in evaluating an allowance for loan and lease losses. As we continue to increase the amount of these loans in our portfolio, additional or increased provisions for loan and lease losses may be necessary and would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review the Company’s loan and lease portfolio and credit underwriting procedures, as well as its allowance for loan and lease losses, and may require the Company to increase its provision for loan and lease losses or recognize further loan and lease charge-offs. At December 31, 2011, the Company had a gross loan portfolio of approximately $583.4 million and the allowance for loan and lease losses was approximately $11.5 million, which represented 1.97% of the total amount of gross loans and leases. If the Company’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect or bank regulators require the Company to increase its provision for loan and lease losses or recognize further loan and lease charge-offs, the Company may have to increase its allowance for loan and lease losses or loan and lease charge-offs which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurances that the Company’s allowance for loan and lease losses will be adequate to protect the Company against loan and lease losses that it may incur. Changes in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition The Company’s results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. The Company’s results of operations depend substantially on its net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on its interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on its interest-bearing liabilities. Because the Company’s interest-bearing liabilities generally re-price or mature more quickly than its interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would tend to result in a decrease in its net interest income. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of the Company’s interest-earning assets, and in particular, the Company’s securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2011, the Company’s securities available for sale totaled $100.0 million. Net unrealized gains on securities available for sale, net of tax, amounted to $2.5 million and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale, therefore, could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity or earnings. The Company also is subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, the Company is subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that it is unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. In 2011, the FRB began a strategy known as “Operation Twist” in an effort to further depress long-term interest rates. The FRB already owned more than $1 trillion in bonds from previous quantitative easing initiatives. Under Operation Twist, the FRB planned to sell medium-term bonds and allow short-term bonds to mature and use the proceeds to purchase long-term bonds. The planned effect was to drive up demand for long-term bonds and thus push long-term interest rates even lower. There has also been speculation from analysts and the press that the FRB may also execute “QE3,” which is a nickname for a third round of quantitative easing, if the economy continues to stagnate. QE3 would likely involve the FRB purchasing billions of dollars more in bonds in an effort to drive interest rates lower and spark 16 Table of Contents increased economic growth. Easy monetary policy by the FRB may increase the interest rate risk for the Company by lowering interest rates over the near term, but also by inadvertently causing inflation to rise at a rapid pace once the economy more fully rebounds from the recession. High inflation rates are usually accompanied by an increase in interest rates. The Company May Be Adversely Affected by the Soundness of Other Financial Institutions Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of counterparty relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry. The most important counterparty for the Company, in terms of liquidity, is the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (“FHLBNY”). The Company uses FHLBNY as its primary source of overnight funds and also has several long-term advances with FHLBNY. At December 31, 2011, the Company had a total of $22.0 million in borrowed funds with FHLBNY. The Company has placed sufficient collateral in the form of commercial and residential real estate loans at FHLBNY. As a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System, the Bank is required to hold stock in FHLBNY. The Bank held FHLBNY stock with a fair value of $1.8 million as of December 31, 2011. The Bank’s FHLBNY stock average yield in 2011 was 4.8%. There are 12 branches of the FHLB, including New York. Several members have warned that they have either breached risk-based capital requirements or that they are close to breaching those requirements. To conserve capital, some FHLB branches are suspending dividends, cutting dividend payments, and not buying back excess FHLB stock that members hold. FHLBNY has stated that they expect to be able to continue to pay dividends, redeem excess capital stock, and provide competitively priced advances in the future. The most severe problems in FHLB have been at some of the other FHLB branches. Nonetheless, the 12 FHLB branches are jointly liable for the consolidated obligations of the FHLB system. To the extent that one FHLB branch cannot meet its obligations to pay its share of the system’s debt; other FHLB branches can be called upon to make the payment. Systemic weakness in the FHLB could result in higher costs of FHLB borrowings, reduced value of FHLB stock, and increased demand for alternative sources of liquidity that are more expensive, such as brokered time deposits, the discount window at the Federal Reserve, or lines of credit with correspondent banks First Tennessee and M&T Bank. Strong Competition Within the Company’s Market Area May Limit its Growth and Profitability Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. The Company competes with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally within the Company’s market area and elsewhere. Many of these competitors (whether regional or national institutions) have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Company does, and may offer certain services that the Company does not or cannot provide. The Company’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in this market area. Expansion of the Company’s Branch Network May Adversely Affect its Financial Results The Company has increased its retail branch network from eight branches to thirteen branches by opening de novo branches in five of the last nine years. In addition, the Company plans on opening another branch in 2012, and its strategy is to continue to grow its branch network through de novo branching and acquisitions. The Company cannot assure that its branch expansion strategy will be accretive to earnings or that it will be accretive to earnings within a reasonable period of time. Numerous factors contribute to the performance of a new branch, such as suitable location, qualified personnel, and an effective marketing strategy. Additionally, it takes time for a new branch to gather sufficient loans and deposits to generate income sufficient to cover its operating expenses. Difficulties the Company experiences in implementing its growth strategy may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company Operates in a Highly Regulated Environment and May Be Adversely Affected By Changes in Laws and Regulations The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, FRB, and by the FDIC, as insurer of its deposits. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a bank and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and depositors. Regulatory requirements affect the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the imposition of deposit insurance premiums and other assessments, the classification of assets by a bank and the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan 17 Table of Contents and lease losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, particularly through the new rules and regulations expected to be established by the Dodd-Frank Act, could have a material adverse impact on the Bank, the Company and its business, financial condition and results of operations. Lack of System Integrity or Credit Quality Related to Funds Settlement could Result in a Financial Loss The Bank settles funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses and consumers and receives funds from clients, card issuers, payment networks and consumers on a daily basis for a variety of transaction types. Transactions facilitated by the Bank include debit card, credit card and electronic bill payment transactions, supporting consumers, financial institutions and other businesses. These payment activities rely upon the technology infrastructure that facilitates the verification of activity with counterparties and the facilitation of the payment. If the continuity of operations or integrity of processing were compromised this could result in a financial loss to the Bank, and therefore the Company, due to a failure in payment facilitation. In addition, the Bank may issue credit to consumers, financial institutions or other businesses as part of the funds settlement. A default on this credit by a counterparty could result in a financial loss to the Bank, and therefore to the Company. Financial Services Companies Depend on the Accuracy and Completeness of Information about Customers and Counterparties In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, the Company may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports, and other financial information. The Company may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties, or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. While management generally engages only third parties that it knows or believes to be reputable, reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports, or other financial information could cause the Company to enter into unfavorable transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Loss of Key Employees May Disrupt Relationships with Certain Customers The Company’s business is primarily relationship-driven in that many of the Company’s key employees have extensive customer relationships. Loss of a key employee with such customer relationships may lead to the loss of business if the customers were to follow that employee to a competitor. While management believes that the Company’s relationships with its key business producers are good, the Company cannot guarantee that all of its key personnel will remain with the organization. Loss of such key personnel, should they enter into an employment relationship with one of the Company’s competitors, could result in the loss of some of the Company’s customers. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Future FDIC Insurance Premium Increases May Adversely Affect the Company’s Earnings The Company is generally unable to control the amount of premiums that it is required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures or other similar occurrences, the FDIC may again increase the premiums assessed upon insured institutions. Such increases and any future increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely impact the Company’s results of operations. The Company is a Financial Holding Company and Depends on Its Subsidiaries for Dividends, Distributions and Other Payments The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. The Company’s principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to the Company’s stockholders and principal and interest on its outstanding debt, is dividends from the Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by the Bank, as well as the payment of dividends by the Company to its stockholders. Regulations of the OCC affect the ability of the Bank to pay dividends and other distributions and to make loans to the Company. If the Bank is unable to make dividend payments and sufficient capital is not otherwise available, the Company may not be able to make dividend payments to its common stockholders or principal and interest payments on its outstanding debt. Because the Nature of the Financial Services Business Involves a High Volume of Transactions, the Company Faces Significant Operational Risks The Company operates in diverse markets and relies on the ability of its employees and systems to process a high number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from the Company’s operations, including but not 18 Table of Contents limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of the Company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, and business continuation and disaster recovery. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, the Company could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action and suffer damage to its reputation. The Company’s Information Systems may Experience an Interruption or Breach in Security The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. If personal, nonpublic, confidential, or proprietary information of customers in the Company’s possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage, and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of the Company’s systems, employees or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Potential for Business Interruption Exists Throughout the Company’s Organization Integral to the Company’s performance is the continued efficacy of our technical systems, operational infrastructure, relationships with third parties and the vast array of associates and key executives in the Company’s day-to-day and ongoing operations. Failure by any or all of these resources subjects the Company to risks that may vary in size, scale and scope. This includes, but is not limited to, operational or technical failures, pandemics, ineffectiveness or exposure due to interruption in third party support as expected, as well as the loss of key individuals or failure on the part of key individuals to perform properly. Although management has established policies and procedures to address such failures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Environmental Factors May Create Liability In the course of its business, the Bank has acquired and may acquire in the future, property securing loans that are in default. There is a risk that the Bank could be required to investigate and clean-up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at such properties after acquisition by the Bank in a foreclosure action, and that the Bank may be held liable to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with such contamination. In addition, the owner or former owners of contaminated sites may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from such property. To date, the Bank has not been required to perform any investigation or clean-up activities, nor has it been subject to any environmental claims. There can be no assurance, however, that this will remain the case in the future. Anti-takeover Laws and Certain Agreements and Charter Provisions May Adversely Affect Share Value Certain provisions of the Company’s certificate of incorporation and state and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company without approval of the Company’s board of directors. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the FRB before acquiring control of a bank holding company. Acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company, including shares of the Company’s common stock, creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquiror “controls” the bank holding company. Also, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the FRB before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank, including the Bank. There also are provisions in the Company’s certificate of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. Taken as a whole, these statutory provisions and provisions in the Company’s certificate of incorporation could result in the Company being less attractive to a potential acquiror and thus could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. 19 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 