Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors identified by the Company’s management represent significant potential risks that the Company faces in its operations. Direct Financing Leases Expose the Company to Increased Credit Risks. At December 31, 2007, the Company’s portfolio of direct financing leases totaled $45.1 million, or 13.9% of total gross loans. The leasing portfolio increased $13.3 million, or 42.0%, from December 31, 2006. The leasing portfolio is the Company’s fastest-growing segment of its loan and lease portfolio and earns the highest yield compared to other loans that the Company offers. The Company plans to continue to emphasize the origination of direct financing leases. The Company is able to earn the relatively higher yield on these leases because of the higher amount of credit risk assumed in its leasing portfolio. This is reflected in the fact that the leases have the highest rate of charge-offs among the Company’s loan and lease portfolio. ENL commenced operations December 31, 2004, in conjunction with the acquisition of the M&C Leasing Company. As ENL is relatively young, the portfolio is still seasoning and the Company has little history to support a projection as to what a long-term run-rate of charge-offs will be. Also, the Company has not held the leasing portfolio through a full credit cycle and is unsure of the impact a worsening economy could have on this relatively riskier portfolio. Consequently, a further deterioration in the credit quality of the leasing portfolio could negatively impact earnings, as well as cause the Company to tighten lending standards to lessees, which could significantly slow the Company’s fastest-growing segment of the loan portfolio. This would also impinge future growth in net interest income as the fast-growing leasing portfolio has buttressed the Company’s overall net interest income growth since ENL’s inception. 21 Table of Contents Commercial Real Estate and Commercial Business Loans Expose the Company to Increased Lending Risks. At December 31, 2007, the Company’s portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $131.1 million, or 40.5% of total gross loans and the Company’s portfolio of commercial business loans totaled $34.6 million, or 10.7% of total gross loans. The Company plans to continue to emphasize the origination of commercial loans. Commercial loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of commercial real estate and business loans often depends on the successful operations and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to four-family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of the Company’s borrowers have more than one commercial real estate or commercial business loan outstanding with the Company. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Company to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to four-family residential mortgage loan. Continuing Concentration of Loans in the Company’s Primary Market Area May Increase the Company’s Risk. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in western New York State. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in western New York State. The Company’s business lending and marketing strategies focus on loans to small- to medium-sized businesses in this geographic region. Moreover, the Company’s assets are heavily concentrated in mortgages on properties located in western New York State. Accordingly, the Company’s business and operations are vulnerable to downturns in the economies of western New York State. The concentration of the Company’s loans in this geographic region subjects the Company to risk that a downturn in the economy or recession in this region could result in a decrease in loan originations and increases in delinquencies and foreclosures, which would more greatly affect the Company than if the Company’s lending were more geographically diversified. In addition, the Company may suffer losses if there is a decline in the value of properties underlying the Company’s mortgage loans which would have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operations. In the Event the Company’s Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan and Lease Losses, the Company’s Earnings Could Decrease. The Company maintains an allowance for loan and lease losses in order to capture the probable losses inherent in its loan portfolio. There is a risk that the Company may experience significant loan and lease losses which could exceed the allowance for loan and lease losses. In determining the amount of the Company’s recorded allowance, the Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of its loan and lease portfolio, including the creditworthiness of its borrowers, the effect of changes in the local economy on the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans, the effects on the Company’s loan and lease portfolio of current economic indicators and their probable impact on borrowers, and the Company’s loan quality reviews. In addition, bank regulators periodically review the Company’s loan and lease portfolio and credit underwriting procedures, as well as its allowance for loan and lease losses, and may require the Company to increase its provision for loan and lease losses or recognize further loan and lease charge-offs. At December 31, 2007, the Company had a net loan portfolio of approximately $319.6 million and the allowance for loan and lease losses was approximately $4.6 million, which represented 1.41% of the total amount of gross loans and leases. If the Company’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect or bank regulators require the Company to increase its provision for loan and lease losses or recognize further loan and lease charge-offs, the Company may have to increase its allowance for loan and lease losses or loan and lease charge-offs which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurances that the Company’s allowance for loan and lease losses will be adequate to protect the Company against loan and lease losses that it may incur. Changes in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. The Company’s results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. The Company’s results of operations depend substantially on its net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on its interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on its interest-bearing liabilities. Because the Company’s interest-bearing liabilities generally re-price or mature more quickly than its interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would tend to result in a decrease in its net interest income. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of the Company’s interest-earning assets, and in particular, the Company’s securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2007, the Company’s securities available for sale totaled $70.1 million. Net unrealized gains on securities available for sale, net of tax, amounted to $0.4 million and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. 22 Table of Contents Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale, therefore, could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity or earnings. The Company also is subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, the Company is subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that it is unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Strong Competition Within the Company’s Market Area May Limit its Growth and Profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. The Company competes with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally within the Company’s market area and elsewhere. Many of these competitors (whether regional or national institutions) have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Company does, and may offer certain services that the Company does not or cannot provide. The Company’s profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in this market area. Expansion of the Company’s Branch Network May Adversely Affect its Financial Results The Company has increased its retail branch network from eight branches to eleven branches by opening de novo branches in three of the last four years. In addition, the Company plans on opening another branch in mid-2008, and its strategy is to continue to grow its branch network through de novo branching and acquisitions. The Company can not assure that its branch expansion strategy will be accretive to earnings or that it will be accretive to earnings within a reasonable period of time. Numerous factors contribute to the performance of a new branch, such as suitable location, qualified personnel, and an effective marketing strategy. Additionally, it takes time for a new branch to gather sufficient loans and deposits to generate income sufficient to cover its operating expenses. The Company Operates in a Highly Regulated Environment and May Be Adversely Affected By Changes in Laws and Regulations. The Company is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, FRB, and by the FDIC, as insurer of its deposits. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a bank and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and depositors. Regulatory requirements affect the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank and the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan and lease losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material adverse impact on the Bank, the Company and its business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 