Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impact our business operations, financial results and liquidity.Our businesses depend upon general economic conditions and we serve some customers in highly cyclical industries; as such, we may be subject to the loss of sales and margins due to an economic downturn or recession.Our financial performance depends, in large part, on conditions in the markets that we serve in both the U.S. and global economies. Some of the industries that we serve are highly cyclical, such as the automotive, construction, industrial equipment, energy, aerospace and electrical equipment industries. We may experience a reduction in sales and margins as a result of a downturn in economic conditions or other macroeconomic factors. Lower demand for our products may also negatively affect the capacity utilization of our production facilities, which may further reduce our operating margins. Many of the markets we serve are highly competitive, which could limit the volume of products that we sell and reduce our operating margins.Many of our products are sold in competitive markets. We believe that the principal points of competition in our markets are product quality and price, design and engineering capabilities, product development, conformity to customer specifications, reliability and timeliness of delivery, customer service and effectiveness of distribution. Maintaining and improving our competitive position will require continued investment by us in manufacturing, engineering, quality standards, marketing, customer service and support of our distribution networks. We may have insufficient resources in the future to continue to make such investments and, even if we make such investments, we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position. We also face the risk of lower-cost foreign manufacturers located in China, Southeast Asia, India and other regions competing in the markets for our products and we may be driven as a consequence of this competition to increase our investment overseas. Making overseas investments can be highly complicated and we may not always realize the advantages we anticipate from any such investments. Competitive pressure may limit the volume of products that we sell and reduce our operating margins. Our growth strategy includes the impact of acquisitions. If we are unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates, successfully integrate acquired operations or realize the intended benefits of our acquisitions, we may be adversely affected.One of our principal growth strategies is to pursue strategic acquisition opportunities. We have completed 25 acquisitions, primarily bolt-on businesses to our existing platforms, over the past 10 years. Each of these acquisitions required integration expense and actions that negatively impacted our results of operations and that could not have been fully anticipated beforehand. In addition, attractive acquisition candidates may not be identified and acquired in the future, financing for acquisitions may be unavailable on satisfactory terms and we may be unable to accomplish our strategic objectives in effecting a particular acquisition. We may encounter various risks in acquiring other companies, including the possible inability to integrate an acquired business into our operations, diversion of management's attention and unanticipated problems or liabilities, some or all of which could materially and adversely affect our business strategy and financial condition and results of operations.We may be unable to successfully implement our business strategies. Our ability to realize our business strategies may be limited.Our businesses operate in relatively mature industries and it may be difficult to successfully pursue our growth strategies and realize material benefits therefrom. Even if we are successful, other risks attendant to our businesses and the economy generally may substantially or entirely eliminate the benefits. While we have successfully utilized some of these strategies in the past, our growth has principally come through acquisitions. Increases in our raw material or energy costs or the loss of critical suppliers could adversely affect our profitability and other financial results.We are sensitive to price movements in our raw materials supply base. Our largest material purchases are for steel, copper, aluminum, polyethylene and other resins and energy. Prices for these products fluctuate with market conditions, and have generally increased over time. We may be unable to completely offset the impact with price increases on a timely basis due to outstanding commitments to our customers, competitive considerations or our customers’ resistance to accepting such price increases and our financial performance may be adversely impacted by further price increases. A failure by our suppliers to continue to supply us with certain raw materials or component parts on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on us. To the extent there are energy supply disruptions or material fluctuations in energy costs, our margins could be materially adversely impacted. 15Table of ContentsOur products are typically highly engineered or customer-driven and we are subject to risks associated with changing technology and manufacturing techniques that could place us at a competitive disadvantage.We believe that our customers rigorously evaluate their suppliers on the basis of product quality, price competitiveness, technical expertise and development capability, new product innovation, reliability and timeliness of delivery, product design capability, manufacturing expertise, operational flexibility, customer service and overall management. Our success depends on our ability to continue to meet our customers’ changing expectations with respect to these criteria. We anticipate that we will remain committed to product research and development, advanced manufacturing techniques and service to remain competitive, which entails significant costs. We may be unable to address technological advances, implement new and more cost-effective manufacturing techniques, or introduce new or improved products, whether in existing or new markets, so as to maintain our businesses’ competitive positions or to grow our businesses as desired. We depend on the services of key individuals and relationships, the loss of which could materially harm us.Our success will depend, in part, on the efforts of our senior management, including our chief executive officer. Our future success will also depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key employees or the failure to attract or retain employees could have a material adverse effect on us. We have substantial debt principal and interest payment requirements that may restrict our future operations and impair our ability to meet our obligations.We have indebtedness that is substantial in relation to our shareholders' equity. As of December 31, 2012, we have approximately $422.4 million of outstanding debt and approximately $303.6 million of shareholders' equity. As of December 31, 2012, substantially all of our debt bears interest at variable rates. We may experience increases in our interest expense as a result of general increases in interest rate levels. Our debt service payment obligations in 2012 were approximately $38.5 million and based on amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2012, a 1% increase in the per annum interest rate for our variable rate debt would increase our interest expense by approximately $2.4 million annually. During 2012, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements that become effective in February 2013 and February 2015 and will fix approximately 77% of the current principal amount of our variable rate debt. See Note 13, "Derivative Instruments," included in Part II, Item 8, "Notes to Audited Consolidated Financial Statements," within this Form 10-K for additional information. Our degree of leverage and level of interest expense may have important consequences, including:•our leverage may place us at a competitive disadvantage as compared with our less leveraged competitors and make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or in any of our businesses; •our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate may be limited;•a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions, future business opportunities or obligations to pay rent in respect of our operating leases; and •our operations are restricted by our debt instruments, which contain certain financial and operating covenants, and those restrictions may limit, among other things, our ability to borrow money in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, rent expense or other purposes.Our ability to service our debt and other obligations will depend on our future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow, and future financings may not be available to provide sufficient net proceeds, to meet these obligations or to successfully execute our business strategies. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources."16Table of ContentsRestrictions in our debt instruments and accounts receivable facility limit our ability to take certain actions and breaches thereof could impair our liquidity.Our credit facility contains covenants that restrict our ability to:•pay dividends or redeem or repurchase capital stock; •incur additional indebtedness and grant liens; •make acquisitions and joint venture investments; •sell assets; and •make capital expenditures.Our credit facility also requires us to comply with financial covenants relating to, among other things, interest coverage and leverage. Our accounts receivable facility contains covenants similar to those in our credit facility and includes additional requirements regarding our receivables. We may not be able to satisfy these covenants in the future or be able to pursue our strategies within the constraints of these covenants. Substantially all of the assets of our domestic subsidiaries (other than our special purpose receivables subsidiary) are pledged as collateral pursuant to the terms of our credit facility. A breach of a covenant contained in our debt instruments could result in an event of default under one or more of our debt instruments, our accounts receivable facility and our lease financing arrangements. Such breaches would permit the lenders under our credit facility to declare all amounts borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, and the commitments of such lenders to make further extensions of credit could be terminated. In addition, such breach may cause a termination of our accounts receivable facility. Each of these circumstances could materially and adversely impair our liquidity.We have significant goodwill and intangible assets, and future impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets could have a material negative impact on our financial results.At December 31, 2012, our goodwill and intangible assets were approximately $477.1 million and represented approximately 42.2% of our total assets. If we experience declines in sales and operating profit or do not meet our current and forecasted operating budget, we may be subject to future goodwill and/or other intangible asset impairments. Historically, included within our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 of $136.2 million and $158.4 million, respectively, were pre-tax, non-cash goodwill and indefinite-lived impairment charges of $166.6 million and $171.2 million, respectively. While the fair value of our remaining goodwill exceeds its carrying value, and we have not recorded goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges since 2008, significantly worse financial performance of our businesses, significantly different assumptions regarding future performance of our businesses or significant declines in our stock price could result in future impairment losses. Because of the significance of our goodwill and intangible assets, and based on the magnitude of historical impairment charges, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.We may face liability associated with the use of products for which patent ownership or other intellectual property rights are claimed.We may be subject to claims or inquiries regarding alleged unauthorized use of a third party's intellectual property. An adverse outcome in any intellectual property litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to license technology or other intellectual property rights from others, require us to comply with injunctions to cease marketing or using certain products or brands, or require us to redesign, re-engineer, or re-brand certain products or packaging, any of which could affect our business, financial condition and operating results. If we are required to seek licenses under patents or other intellectual property rights of others, we may not be able to acquire these licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, the cost of responding to an intellectual property infringement claim, in terms of legal fees and expenses and the diversion of management resources, whether or not the claim is valid, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property.While we believe that our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property have significant value, it is uncertain that this intellectual property or any intellectual property acquired or developed by us in the future, will provide a meaningful competitive advantage. Our patents or pending applications may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by competitors or rights granted thereunder may not provide meaningful proprietary protection. Moreover, competitors may infringe on our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive, and we may not be able to, or have the resources to, prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the U.S. The cost of protecting our intellectual property may be significant and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future results of operations.17Table of ContentsWe may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, recall and warranty claims that may be brought against us.We are subject to a variety of litigation incidental to our businesses, including claims for damages arising out of use of our products, claims relating to intellectual property matters and claims involving employment matters and commercial disputes.We currently carry insurance and maintain reserves for potential product liability claims. However, our insurance coverage may be inadequate if such claims do arise and any liability not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we have been able to obtain insurance in amounts we believe to be appropriate to cover such liability to date, our insurance premiums may increase in the future as a consequence of conditions in the insurance business generally or our situation in particular. Any such increase could result in lower net income or cause the need to reduce our insurance coverage. In addition, a future claim may be brought against us that could have a material adverse effect on us. Any product liability claim may also include the imposition of punitive damages, the award of which, pursuant to certain state laws, may not be covered by insurance. Our product liability insurance policies have limits that, if exceeded, may result in material costs that could have an adverse effect on our future profitability. In addition, warranty claims are generally not covered by our product liability insurance. Further, any product liability or warranty issues may adversely affect our reputation as a manufacturer of high-quality, safe products, divert management's attention, and could have a material adverse effect on our business.In addition, the Lamons business within our Energy reportable segment is a party to lawsuits related to asbestos contained in gaskets formerly manufactured by it or its predecessors. Some of this litigation includes claims for punitive and consequential as well as compensatory damages. We are not able to predict the outcome of these matters given that, among other things, claims may be initially made in jurisdictions without specifying the amount sought or by simply stating the minimum or maximum permissible monetary relief, and may be amended to alter the amount sought. Of the 7,880 claims pending at December 31, 2012, 89 set forth specific amounts of damages (other than those stating the statutory minimum or maximum). See Note 15, "Commitments and Contingencies," included in Part II, Item 8, "Notes to Audited Consolidated Financial Statements," within this Form 10-K for additional information. Total settlement costs (exclusive of defense costs) for all such cases, some of which were filed over 20 years ago, have been approximately $6.3 million. All relief sought in the asbestos cases is monetary in nature. To date, approximately 40% of our costs related to settlement and defense of asbestos litigation have been covered by our primary insurance. Effective February 14, 2006, we entered into a coverage-in-place agreement with our first level excess carriers regarding the coverage to be provided to us for asbestos-related claims when the primary insurance is exhausted. The coverage-in-place agreement makes asbestos defense costs and indemnity insurance coverage available to us that might otherwise be disputed by the carriers and provides a methodology for the administration of such expenses. Nonetheless, we believe it is likely that there will be a period within the next one or two years, prior to the commencement of coverage under this agreement and following exhaustion of our primary insurance coverage, during which we likely will be solely responsible for defense costs and indemnity payments, the duration of which would be subject to the scope of damage awards and settlements paid. We also may incur significant litigation costs in defending these matters in the future. We may be required to incur additional defense costs and pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to equitable remedies that could adversely affect our businesses.Our business may be materially and adversely affected by compliance obligations and liabilities under environmental laws and regulations.We are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges and chemical and hazardous waste management and disposal. Some of these environmental laws hold owners or operators of land or businesses liable for their own and for previous owners' or operators' releases of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes. Other environmental laws and regulations require the obtainment and compliance with environmental permits. To date, costs of complying with environmental, health and safety requirements have not been material. However, the nature of our operations and our long history of industrial activities at certain of our current or former facilities, as well as those acquired, could potentially result in material environmental liabilities.While we must comply with existing and pending climate change legislation, regulation and international treaties or accords, current laws and regulations have not had a material impact on our business, capital expenditures or financial position. Future events, including those relating to climate change or greenhouse gas regulation could require us to incur expenses related to the modification or curtailment of operations, installation of pollution control equipment or investigation and cleanup of contaminated sites.18Table of ContentsOur borrowing costs may be impacted by our credit ratings developed by various rating agencies.Two major ratings agencies, Standard & Poor's and Moody's, evaluate our credit profile on an ongoing basis and have each assigned ratings for our long-term debt. If our credit ratings were to decline, our ability to access certain financial markets may become limited, the perception of us in the view of our customers, suppliers and security holders may worsen and as a result, we may be adversely affected.We have significant operating lease obligations and our failure to meet those obligations could adversely affect our financial condition.We lease many of our manufacturing facilities and certain capital equipment. Our rental expense in 2012 under these operating leases was approximately $22.8 million. A failure to pay our rental obligations would constitute a default allowing the applicable landlord to pursue any remedy available to it under applicable law, which would include taking possession of our property and, in the case of real property, evicting us. These leases are categorized as operating leases and are not considered indebtedness for purposes of our debt instruments.We may be subject to further unionization and work stoppages at our facilities or our customers may be subject to work stoppages, which could seriously impact the profitability of our business.As of December 31, 2012, approximately 24% of our work force was unionized under several different unions and bargaining agreements. On November 21, 2012, we announced the decision to close our Goshen, Indiana, manufacturing facility within our Cequent Americas segment, impacting approximately 30% of our current unionized work force. Following ratification by the unionized workforce at the facility, we entered into a plant closing agreement on February 25, 2013, establishing the agreed upon terms of the plant closure with respect to the union workforce. If our unionized workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown in the future, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations. In addition, if a greater percentage of our work force becomes unionized, our labor costs and risks associated with strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns may increase.On August 6, 2012, we concluded, without a work stoppage or strike, a three year extension of our labor agreement with the United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America at our aerospace facility in California.On July 10, 2009, we reached a mutually agreeable settlement with the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union regarding the duration of a neutrality agreement we have with the Union. The agreement, which expired by its terms on June 30, 2012, committed us to remain generally neutral in Union organizing drives through the duration of the agreement. On August 17, 2009, the Union began an organizing drive at our facility located in Houston, Texas, which is included in our Energy segment. Since the Union obtained a simple majority of authorization cards during the organizing drive, on November 4, 2009 we recognized the Union at this facility. The recognition requires us and the Union to negotiate a first collective bargaining agreement within 180 days from the date of recognition. There is no threat of strike or work slowdown during the first collective bargaining agreement. On December 10, 2009, we received a notice of filing petition for union decertification at the Houston, Texas facility. A decertification vote administered by the National Labor Relations Board occurred on August 26, 2010; however, those ballots were impounded in light of the Union's previously filed request for review. On August 26, 2011, the National Labor Relations Board announced that it would not count the impounded ballots. Other than as described above, we are not aware of any present active union organizing drives at any of our other facilities. We cannot predict the impact of any further unionization of our workplace. Many of our direct or indirect customers have unionized work forces. Strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns experienced by these customers or their suppliers could result in slowdowns or closures of assembly plants where our products are included. In addition, organizations responsible for shipping our customers' products may be impacted by occasional strikes or other activity. Any interruption in the delivery of our customers' products could reduce demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on us. 19Table of ContentsOur healthcare costs for active employees and future retirees may exceed our projections and may negatively affect our financial results.We maintain a range of healthcare benefits for our active employees and a limited number of retired employees pursuant to labor contracts and otherwise. Healthcare benefits for active employees and certain retirees are provided through comprehensive hospital, surgical and major medical benefit provisions or through health maintenance organizations, all of which are subject to various cost-sharing features. Some of these benefits are provided for in fixed amounts negotiated in labor contracts with the respective unions. If our costs under our benefit programs for active employees and retirees exceed our projections, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, foreign competitors and many domestic competitors provide fewer benefits to their employees and retirees, and this difference in cost could adversely impact our competitive position. A growing portion of our sales may be derived from international sources, which exposes us to certain risks which may adversely affect our financial results and impact our ability to service debt.We have extensive operations outside of the United States. Approximately 18.3% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2012 were derived from sales by our subsidiaries located outside of the U.S. In addition, we may significantly expand our international operations through internal growth and acquisitions. International operations, particularly sales to emerging markets and manufacturing in non-US countries, are subject to risks which are not present within U.S. markets, which include, but are not limited to, the following: •changes in local government regulations and policies including, but not limited to, foreign currency exchange controls or monetary policy, governmental embargoes, repatriation of earnings, expropriation of property, duty or tariff restrictions, investment limitations and tax policies; •political and economic instability and disruptions, including labor unrest, civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism; •legislation that regulates the use of chemicals; •disadvantages of competing against companies from countries that are not subject to U.S. laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"); •compliance with international trade laws and regulations, including export control and economic sanctions, such as anti-dumping duties; •difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations; •limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies; •tax inefficiencies in repatriating cash flow from non-U.S. subsidiaries that could affect our financial results and reduce our ability to service debt; •reduced protection of intellectual property rights; and •other risks arising out of foreign sovereignty over the areas where our operations are conducted. In addition, we could be adversely affected by violations of the FCPA and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws as well as export controls and economic sanction laws. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our stock price may be subject to significant volatility due to our own results or market trends.If our revenue, earnings or cash flows in any quarter fail to meet the investment community's expectations, there could be an immediate negative impact on our stock price. Our stock price could also be impacted by broader market trends and world events unrelated to our performance.20Table of ContentsHeartland owns approximately 9.7% of our voting common equity.Heartland Industrial Partners ("Heartland") beneficially owns approximately 9.7% of our outstanding voting common equity and one of our directors is the Managing Member of Heartland's general partner. As a result, Heartland has the ability to influence all matters submitted to our stockholders and all decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders. So long as Heartland continues to own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock and maintains a director position, it will have the ability to influence our decisions. Its interests may differ from other stockholders and it may vote in a way with which other stockholders disagree. In addition, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of facilitating or deterring a change of control. Heartland also has the right to require us to file a registration statement with the SEC for purposes of registering for sale to the public some or all of the common stock of ours that it owns. See Item 13, "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence," within this Form 10-K for further information.21Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable.