Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock or other securities involves a number of risks. You should carefully consider each of the risks described below before deciding to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks develops into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price of our common stock or other securities could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risk factors presented below are all of the ones that we currently consider material. However, they are not the only ones facing our Company. Additional risks not presently known to us, or which we currently consider immaterial, may also adversely affect us. There may be risks that a particular investor views differently from us, and our analysis might be wrong. If any of the risks that we face actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected and could differ materially from any possible results suggested by any forward-looking statements that we have made or might make. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risk Factors Related to Our Business Our steam and water turbine business is a critical component of our growth and overall business strategy, yet our turbine facility is not fully operational and we have limited experience manufacturing turbines. In late 2005, Wuhan Blower reached an understanding with many of the former management members of Wuhan Turbine Works, a business owned by China Chang Jiang Energy Corporation, whereby it would establish a new business utilizing their management and technology to manufacture small to mid-size steam and water turbines. Since that time, we have begun production of turbines in our existing manufacturing facilities and in shared facilities. In March 2006, we broke ground on a new turbine manufacturing facility. The construction of the turbine manufacturing facility has been completed and approximately 75% of the equipment has been installed. As we receive additional turbine orders, we will purchase and install the remainder of the customized equipment in this new facility. We have already begun production of turbines from this facility and will expand production once the installation is complete. The manufacture of turbines has become a critical component of our business. However, we have only two years experience manufacturing turbines. Because we have had a limited operating history in the turbine manufacturing business, it is difficult to forecast accurately our future revenues and expenses related to this business. Additionally, our turbine operations will continue to be subject to risks inherent in the establishment of a new business, including, among other things, efficiently deploying our capital, developing our product and service offerings, developing and implementing our marketing campaigns and strategies and developing awareness and acceptance of our products. Our ability to generate future revenues from these operations will be dependent on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. To be successful, we must, among other things, complete the installation of the customized equipment, integrate the former managers of Wuhan Turbine Works and establish market recognition in this business. This will require us to expend significant resources, including capital and management time and there can be no assurance that this aspect of our business will be successful. 12 Wuhan Blower was privatized in 2004, so it has a limited history of operations as a non-state-owned enterprise. We may not realize the benefits of privatization as quickly as we anticipate or at the level that we expect. Wuhan Blower was originally founded in 1958 as the Wuhan Blower Company. In 2004, Mr. Xu Jie purchased the company and implemented steps to transform it from a traditional Chinese state-owned enterprise into a modern, efficient company. Thus, we only have a limited history of operations as a non-state-owned enterprise. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in achieving the benefits we expect from our privatization, such as increased management flexibility in implementing measures to improve our cost structure, the efficient operation of our business and the expansion into new businesses in a timely manner or at all. Factors that may cause the actual benefits we may derive from privatization to deviate from our expectations include: · inexperience of management in transforming and then operating a non-state-owned enterprise; · unanticipated adverse developments in our attempt to achieve efficient management of our workforce and operation of our business; · changes in regulations affecting us following our privatization; and · the speed with which we are able to implement more efficient management systems, and the resulting levels of cost savings. Wuhan Xingelin Equipment is not fully operational and we have little experience manufacturing and marketing parts for blowers and other industrial equipment. We expect Wuhan Xingelin Equipment to produce industrial parts mainly for Wuhan Blower and Wuhan Generating. We also plan to market industrial parts and machinery equipment to third parties. Because we have no experience in the parts and machinery equipment manufacturing business, we may not be successful. In addition, it is difficult to forecast accurately our future revenues and expenses related to this business. We also have not completed construction of a workshop and other buildings to be used by Wuhan Xingelin Equipment. Our operations will continue to be subject to risks inherent in the establishment of a new business, including, among other things, efficiently deploying our capital, developing our product and service offerings, developing and implementing our marketing campaigns and strategies and developing awareness and acceptance of our products. Our ability to generate future revenues from these operations will be dependent on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. To be successful, we must, among other things, complete our remaining workshop, integrate our existing management and establish market recognition in this business. This will require us to expend significant resources, including capital and management time and there can be no assurance that this aspect of our business will be successful. We have not paid the remaining balance in connection with the Shu Kong Acquisition and we may require additional financing to meet this obligation and to complete construction of various buildings for Wuhan Xingelin Equipment. We owe a balance of approximately $6 million in connection with the Shu Kong Acquisition. In addition, we must pay an additional $1.78 million to complete construction on the acquired facilities. We may require financing to meet these obligations. There is no guarantee that we will obtain such financing, and, if we are not able to meet our financial commitment in a timely manner, Wuhan Xingelin Equipment may cease to be operational. 13 Our management has identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures that, if not properly remediated, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements in future periods. In conjunction with the preparation of this Form 10-K, our management carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2008. Based upon this evaluation, our CEO and CFO concluded that our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures contained significant deficiencies and material weaknesses. For more detailed information regarding our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures, see Part II, Item 9A Controls and Procedures. If we are unable to improve our financial and management controls and hire additional accounting and finance staff experienced in addressing complex accounting matters applicable to public reporting companies, in each case in a timely and effective manner, our ability to comply with the accounting and financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to public reporting companies would be impaired. If the remedial policies and procedures we implement are insufficient to address the identified material weaknesses, or if additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls are discovered in the future, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations, our financial statements may contain material misstatements and our operating results may be adversely affected. Any such failure also could adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We must implement additional and expensive procedures and controls in order to grow our business and organization and to satisfy reporting requirements, which will increase our costs and require additional management resources. As a public reporting company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, including the requirements that we maintain disclosure controls and procedures and adequate internal control over financial reporting. We also are required to comply with marketplace rules to maintain our NASDAQ listing. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other SEC and NASDAQ requirements will increase our costs and require additional management resources. We recently began upgrading our procedures and controls and will need to continue to implement additional procedures and controls as we grow our business and organization and to satisfy new reporting requirements. If we are unable to complete the required assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or if we fail to maintain internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely, accurate and reliable periodic financial statements could be impaired. 14 Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our financial obligations. We have incurred substantial debt to finance our growth. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $36.63 million of outstanding bank loans and notes. This indebtedness could have important consequences to us, such as: · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund growth, working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other cash requirements; · limiting our operational flexibility due to the covenants contained in our debt agreements; · limiting our ability to invest operating cash flow in our business due to debt service requirements; · limiting our ability to compete with companies that are not as highly leveraged and that may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns; and · increasing our vulnerability to fluctuations in market interest rates. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in customer preferences, the success of product and marketing innovation and pressure from competitors. If we do not have enough money to pay our debt service obligations, we may be required to raise additional equity capital, sell assets or borrow more money. We may not be able, at any given time, to raise additional equity capital, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, the majority of our debt matures in less than one year. In the past, we have refinanced our debt prior to maturity. However there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt on favorable terms. Default in payment by one or more customers that have large account receivable balances could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our working capital consists of accounts receivable from customers. As of December 31, 2008, we had an aggregate amount of $41.49 million in accounts receivables. If customers responsible for a significant amount of accounts receivable were to become insolvent or otherwise unable or unwilling to make timely payments, our business, results of operation, financial condition or liquidity could be adversely affected. A significant amount of customer defaults would be most likely to occur in an economic or industry downturn. Such an event could result in longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and defaults in excess of management’s expectations. We rely on third-party relationships to augment our research and development capabilities. If we fail to establish new, or maintain existing, collaborative arrangements, or if our partners do not perform, we may be unable to research and develop new products and make technological advancements. Although we maintain our own research and development facilities, we also rely on collaborative arrangements with third-parties to research and develop new products and make technological advancements. For example, we have relationships with the Science and Technology University of Central China, Jiaotong University and the Acoustic Institute of the China Science Academy that allow us to stay abreast of the latest developments in the fields of fluid dynamics, material sciences and acoustics. We would be harmed by the loss of such relationships. In addition, we license technological information, and receive related technical assistance, from Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. in connection with the majority of axial flow fans that we produce. If we fail to retain our rights under the license agreement, we would not be able to produce axial flow fans using the technical information provided by Mitsubishi. Additional collaborations may be necessary in the future. If we fail to enter into additional collaborative arrangements or fail to maintain our existing collaborative arrangements, we may not be able to compete successfully with other companies that achieve technological advancements. 15 Our dependence on collaborative arrangements with third-parties subjects us to a number of risks, including, among others: · collaborative arrangements may not be on terms favorable to us; · disagreements with partners may result in delays in research and development, termination of our collaboration agreements or time consuming and expensive legal action; · we cannot control the amount and timing of resources that our partners devote to our research and development and our partners may not allocate sufficient funds or resources to our projects, or may not perform their obligations as expected; · partners may choose to research and develop, independently or with other companies, alternative products or technological advancements, including products or advancements that would compete with ours; · agreements with partners may expire or be terminated without renewal, or partners may breach collaboration agreements with us; · business combinations or significant changes in a partner’s business strategy might adversely affect that partner’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations to us; and · the terms and conditions of the relevant agreements may no longer be suitable. The occurrence of any of these or similar events could adversely affect our research and development capabilities. We have limited business insurance coverage. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. As a result, we do not have any business liability insurance coverage for our operations. If we incur any losses, we will have to bear those losses without any assistance. As a result, we may not have sufficient capital to cover material damage to, or the loss of, our manufacturing facilities due to fire, severe weather, flood or other causes, and such damage or loss would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business and prospects. Our results could be adversely impacted by product quality and performance. We manufacture and install products based on specific requirements of each of our customers. We believe that future orders of our products or services will depend on our ability to maintain the performance, reliability and quality standards required by our customers. If our products or services have performance, reliability or quality problems, we may experience delays in the collection of accounts receivables, higher manufacturing or installation costs, additional warranty and service expense, and reduced, cancelled or discontinued orders. Additionally, performance, reliability or quality claims from our customers, with or without merit, could result in costly and time-consuming litigation that could require significant time and attention of management and involve significant monetary damages. 16 Price fluctuations and supply constraints in the steel and iron markets could reduce our profit margins or prevent us from meeting delivery schedules to our customers. Our business is dependent on the prices and supply of steel and iron, which are the principal raw materials used in our products. The steel and iron industries are highly cyclical in nature, and steel and iron prices have been volatile in recent years and may remain volatile in the future. Steel and iron prices are influenced by numerous factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, competition, labor costs, production costs, import duties and other trade restrictions. In 2007 and early 2008, there were unusually rapid and significant increases in steel and iron prices and severe shortages in the steel and iron industries due in part to increased demand from China’s expanding economy and high energy prices. These increases were followed in the second half of 2008 by significant decreases. We do not have any long-term contracts for the purchase of steel and iron and normally do not maintain inventories of steel and iron in excess of our current production requirements. We can give you no assurance that steel and iron will remain available to us at competitive prices or that prices will not continue to be volatile. If the available supply of steel and iron declines, we could experience price increases that we are not able to pass on to our customers, a deterioration of service from our suppliers or interruptions or delays that may cause us not to meet delivery schedules to our customers. Any of these problems could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Expansion of our business may strain our management and operational infrastructure and impede our ability to meet any increased demand for our products. In addition, we may need additional funding to support our growth, and this funding may not be available to us. Our business plan is to grow significantly our operations by meeting the anticipated growth in demand for existing products, and by introducing new products. Our planned growth includes the continued development of our turbine manufacturing business. Growth in our business may place a significant strain on our personnel, management, financial systems and other resources. Our business growth also presents numerous risks and challenges, including: · our ability successfully and rapidly to expand sales to potential customers in response to potentially increasing demand; · the costs associated with such growth, which are difficult to quantify, but could be significant; and · rapid technological change. To accommodate this growth and compete effectively, we may need to obtain additional funding to improve and expand our manufacturing facilities, information systems, procedures and controls and to expand, train, motivate and manage existing and additional employees. Funding may not be available in a sufficient amount or on favorable terms, if at all. If we are not able to manage these activities and implement these strategies successfully to expand to meet any increased demand, our operating results could suffer. 17 We depend heavily on key personnel, and turnover of key employees and senior management could harm our business. Our future business and results of operations depend in significant part upon the continued contributions of our key technical and senior management personnel, including in particular Xu Jie, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. They also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, technical, marketing and sales and support personnel for our operations. If we lose a key employee, if a key employee fails to perform in his or her current position, or if we are not able to attract and retain skilled employees as needed, our business could suffer. Significant turnover in our senior management could significantly deplete institutional knowledge held by our existing senior management team. We depend on the skills and abilities of these key employees in managing the manufacturing, technical, marketing and sales aspects of our business, any part of which could be harmed by turnover in the future. We are a holding company and rely on the receipt of dividends from our operating subsidiaries. We may encounter limitations on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us. As a holding company, we have no direct business operations other than the ownership of our operating subsidiaries. Our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries. In addition, our operating subsidiaries, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictive covenants in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions relating to doing business in China as discussed below. If future dividends are paid in Renminbi, fluctuations in the exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi into U.S. dollars may reduce the amount received by U.S. stockholders upon conversion of the dividend payment into U.S. dollars. The ability of our Chinese operating subsidiaries to pay dividends may be restricted due to their corporate structure. All of our operations are conducted in China and substantially all of our revenues are generated in China. Chinese regulations currently permit the payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. This calculation may differ from the one performed under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or U.S. GAAP. As a result, we may not receive sufficient distributions from our Chinese subsidiaries to enable us to make dividend distributions to our stockholders in the future. The limitations on distributions of the profits of our Chinese operating subsidiaries could negatively affect our financial condition and assets, even if our U.S. GAAP financial statements indicate that our operations have been profitable. Currently, our subsidiaries in China are the only significant sources of revenues or investment holdings for the payment of dividends. If they do not accumulate sufficient profits under Chinese accounting standards and regulations, we will be unable to pay any dividends. 18 We enjoy certain preferential tax concessions, and the loss of these preferential tax concessions would cause our tax liabilities to increase and our profitability to decline. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress promulgated the Law of the People’s Republic of China on Enterprise Income Tax, or the new EIT Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. In accordance with the new EIT Law, the corporate income tax rate was set at 25% for all enterprises. However, certain industries and projects, such as enterprises with foreign investors, may enjoy favorable tax treatment pursuant to the new EIT Law and its implementing rules. We expect that our operating subsidiaries will be subject to a 15% income tax in the PRC for 2009. There can be no assurance that we will continue to qualify for this preferential tax treatment or that Chinese tax regulations will remain the same. If we do not continue to receive our reduced income tax rate, our tax liabilities will increase and our net income will decrease accordingly. Under the new EIT Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” for PRC tax purposes, which may subject us to PRC enterprise income tax for any dividends we receive from our Chinese subsidiaries and to PRC income tax withholding for any dividends we pay to our non-PRC stockholders. Under the new EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China is considered a “resident enterprise” and is subject to the 25% enterprise income tax rate on its worldwide income. The new EIT Law and its implementing rules are relatively new, and currently, no official interpretation or application of this new “resident enterprise” classification is available. Therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine the tax residency of enterprises established outside of China. All of our management is currently based in China. If the PRC tax authorities determine that our U.S. holding company is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, we may be subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income. The “resident enterprise” classification also could subject us to a 10% withholding tax on any dividends we pay to our non-PRC stockholders if the relevant PRC authorities determine that such income is PRC-sourced income. In addition to the uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of the new “resident enterprise” classification, the new EIT Law may change in the future, possibly with retroactive effect. If we are classified as a “resident enterprise” and we incur these tax liabilities, our net income will decrease accordingly. Our quarterly and annual revenues and operating results are volatile and difficult to predict. Our quarterly and annual revenues and operating results may vary depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: fluctuating customer demand, delay or timing of shipments, construction delays, changes in product mix or market acceptance of new products; manufacturing or operational difficulties that may arise due to quality control, capacity utilization of our production equipment or staffing requirements; and competition, including the introduction of new products by competitors, adoption of competitive technologies by our customers and competitive pressures on prices of our products and services. Our failure to meet quarterly or annual revenue and operating result expectations would likely adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to the Market for Our Stock and Our Capital Structure Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of restricted common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144 or a resale prospectus. Any substantial sale of our common stock may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 19 The issuance of shares of common stock upon the exercise or conversion of outstanding securities may cause significant dilution to our stockholders and may have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2008, there were 25,168,818 shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of outstanding Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock and exercise of outstanding warrants and options. The issuance of our shares upon the exercise or conversion of these securities will increase the number of shares of our common stock outstanding, which could depress the market price of our common stock. The perceived risk of dilution may cause our stockholders to sell their shares, which would contribute to a downward movement in the stock price of our common stock. Moreover, the perceived risk of dilution and the resulting downward pressure on our stock price could encourage investors to engage in short sales of our common stock. By increasing the number of shares offered for sale, material amounts of short selling could further contribute to progressive price declines in our common stock. In the event that we issue common stock or securities convertible into common stock in the future for consideration that is less than the conversion price of our outstanding Series A Preferred Stock or the exercise prices of our outstanding warrants, the number of shares that we would be required to issue upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock would be increased and the exercise prices of the warrants would be decreased. The terms of our outstanding convertible Series A Preferred Stock and warrants provide for a downward adjustment in the conversion price of our Series A Preferred Stock and exercise prices of the warrants in the event that we subsequently issue shares of our common stock, or securities convertible into or exercisable for our common stock, for consideration that is less than the conversion or exercise prices of these previously issued securities. Any reduction of the conversion price of our Series A Preferred Stock as a result of these adjustment provisions would require that we issue a greater number of shares upon conversion of Series A Preferred Stock than we would have issued in the absence of these provisions. Any additional shares that we issue as a result of these adjustment provisions would cause further dilution to our existing stockholders. In addition, any reduction of the exercise price of the warrants as a result of these adjustment provisions would reduce the amount of cash that we receive in connection with an exercise of such warrants. We may not be able to achieve the benefits we expect to result from the share exchange. We may not realize the benefits that we hoped to derive as a result of the February 2007 share exchange, which include: · access to the capital markets of the United States; · the increased market liquidity expected to result from exchanging stock in a private company for securities of a public company that are publicly traded; · the ability to use securities to make acquisition of assets or businesses; · increased visibility in the financial community; · enhanced access to the capital markets; 20 · improved transparency of operations; and · perceived credibility and enhanced corporate image of being a publicly traded company. In addition, the attention and effort devoted to achieving the benefits of the share exchange and attending to the obligations of being a public company, such as reporting requirements and securities regulations, could significantly divert management’s attention from operational issues, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results or stock price in the future. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure will result in additional expenses and pose challenges for our management team. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and SEC regulations, have created uncertainty for public companies and significantly increased the costs and risks associated with accessing the public markets and public reporting. Our management team, which has limited experience operating a U.S. public company, will need to devote significant time and financial resources to comply with both existing and evolving standards for public companies, which will lead to increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. Standards for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act are relatively new for our Company, and if we fail to comply in a timely manner, investor confidence could be harmed and our stock price could decline. Rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act require an annual assessment of a public company’s internal control over financial reporting by management and an audit of the public company’s internal control over financial reporting by such company’s independent registered public accountants. We completed annual assessments of our internal controls in connection with the preparation of our Form 10-KSB for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 and this Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. These assessments identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. The auditor’s attestation requirement will first apply to our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. Since the auditor attestation process will be new for our company, we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any requested improvements and receiving an attestation by our independent registered public accountants. Since we previously have not been able to assess our internal control over financial reporting as effective, our independent registered public accountants may not be able to provide an unqualified attestation for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. This may negatively impact investor confidence and our share price. Our principal stockholder has the ability to control our operations, including the election of our directors. Fame Good International Limited, a holding company controlled by our President and Chief Executive Officer, Xu Jie, is the owner of approximately 74.3% of our outstanding voting securities (excluding shares of our Series A and Series B Preferred Stock which, until converted into common stock, only vote as a class on certain matters affecting such preferred stock). As a result, Mr. Xu possesses significant influence, giving him the ability, among other things, to elect each member of our Board of Directors and to authorize or prevent proposed significant corporate transactions. His ownership and control also may have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer. Additionally, Mr. Xu’s interests may differ from the interests of our other stockholders. 21 Certain provisions of our Articles of Incorporation may make it more difficult for a third party to effect a change in control. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the Board of Directors to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the Board of Directors without further action by the stockholders. These terms may include voting rights including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights, redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The issuance of any preferred stock could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce the value of such common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prevent or make it more costly to acquire or effect a change in control, which in turn could prevent the stockholders from recognizing a gain in the event that a favorable offer is extended and could materially and negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Changes in China’s political or economic situation could harm us and our operating results. Economic reforms adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the country, but the government could change these economic reforms or any of the legal systems at any time. This could either benefit or damage our operations and profitability. Changes or events that could possibly occur, among others, include: · level of government involvement in the economy; · control of foreign exchange; · methods of allocating resources; · balance of payments position; · international trade restrictions; · international conflict; and · devaluation of the Renminbi, which is the Chinese currency. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in many ways. As a result of these differences, we may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. 22 Our business is subject to the uncertain legal environment in China. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which precedents set in earlier legal cases are not generally followed. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has been to enhance the protections afforded to foreign investment enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, such as the right of foreign investment enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as requisite business licenses. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. In the last 20 years, despite a process of devolution of regulatory control to provincial and local levels and resulting economic autonomy and private economic activities, the Chinese central government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision to adjust economic policies or even to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another widespread public health problem, could harm our operations. A renewed outbreak of SARS or another widespread public health problem such as new strains of avian influenza in China could have a negative effect on our operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including the following: · quarantines or closures of some of our manufacturing facilities or offices which would severely disrupt our operations, · the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and · a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could damage our operations. 23 Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. The majority of our revenues are settled in Renminbi, and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign investment enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. The foreign currency exchange rate between U.S. Dollars and Renminbi could adversely affect our financial condition and the value of our shares. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi, and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs and should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position, the business of the Company and the price of our common stock may be harmed. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our capital stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. Until 1994, the Renminbi experienced a gradual but significant devaluation against most major currencies, including the U.S. dollar, and there was a significant devaluation of the Renminbi on January 1, 1994 in connection with the replacement of the dual exchange rate system with a unified managed floating rate foreign exchange system. Since 1994, the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar has remained stable and has appreciated against the U.S. dollar. Countries, including the United States, have argued that the Renminbi is artificially undervalued due to China’s current monetary policies and have pressured China to allow the Renminbi to float freely in world markets. In July 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of designated foreign currencies. Since then, the Renminbi has appreciated by more than 20% against the U.S. dollar. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. Inflation in the PRC could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. During the past 15 years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as approximately 20% and China has experienced deflation as low as approximately minus 2%. If prices for our products and services rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies such as raw materials, it may have an adverse effect on our profitability. 24 PRC regulations relating to acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign entities may create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict or limit our ability to operate. In October 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued a Notice on Relevant Issues concerning Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Residents to Engage in Financing and in Return Investment via Overseas Special Purpose Companies. In accordance with the notice, if an acquisition of a PRC company by an offshore company controlled by PRC residents has been confirmed by a Foreign Investment Enterprise Certificate prior to the promulgation of the notice, the PRC residents must each submit a registration form to the local provincial SAFE branch with respect to their establishment of an offshore company and also must file an amendment to such registration if the offshore company experiences material events, such as changes in the share capital, share transfer, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transaction or use of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. The notice also provides that failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may result in restrictions on our PRC resident stockholders and subsidiaries. Pending the promulgation of detailed implementation rules, the relevant government authorities are reluctant to commence processing any registration or application for approval required under the SAFE notices. In addition, on August 8, 2006, the Ministry of Commerce (“MOFCOM”), joined by the State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, State Administration of Taxation, State Administration for Industry and Commerce, China Securities Regulatory Commission and SAFE, amended and released the Provisions for Foreign Investors to Merge and Acquire Domestic Enterprises, new foreign-investment rules which took effect September 8, 2006, superseding much, but not all, of the guidance in the prior SAFE circulars. These new rules significantly revised China’s regulatory framework governing onshore-offshore restructurings and how foreign investors can acquire domestic enterprises. These new rules signify greater PRC government attention to cross-border merger, acquisition and other investment activities, by confirming MOFCOM as a key regulator for issues related to mergers and acquisitions in China and requiring MOFCOM approval of a broad range of merger, acquisition and investment transactions. Further, the new rules establish reporting requirements for acquisition of control by foreigners of companies in key industries, and reinforce the ability of the Chinese government to monitor and prohibit foreign control transactions in key industries. These new rules may significantly affect the means by which onshore-offshore restructurings are undertaken in China in connection with offshore private equity and venture capital financings, mergers and acquisitions. It is expected that such transactional activity in China in the near future will require significant case-by-case guidance from MOFCOM and other government authorities as appropriate. It is anticipated that application of the new rules will be subject to significant administrative interpretation, and we will need to closely monitor how MOFCOM and other ministries apply the rules to ensure that our PRC and offshore activities continue to comply with PRC law. Given the uncertainties regarding interpretation and application of the new rules, we may need to expend significant time and resources to maintain compliance. It is uncertain how our business operations or future strategy will be affected by the interpretations and implementation of the SAFE notices and new rules. 25 Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, we are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent our transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Chinese companies and some other foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time to time in the PRC, and our executive officers and employees have not been subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prior to the completion of the share exchange in February 2007. We can make no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC. PRC companies historically have not adopted a Western style of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, which includes strong corporate governance, internal controls and computer, financial and other control systems. As a result, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet standards required of U.S. public companies. Therefore, we may, in turn, experience difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls which could impact the reliability of our financial statements and prevent us from complying with SEC rules and regulations and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Any such deficiencies, weaknesses or lack of compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business may be adversely affected as a result of China’s entry into the World Trade Organization (“WTO”) because the preferential tax treatments available to us may be discontinued and foreign manufacturers may compete with us in the PRC. The PRC became a member of the WTO on December 11, 2001. The current tax benefits that we enjoy may be discontinued as a result of the PRC’s membership in the WTO. If this happened, our profitability would be adversely affected. In addition, we may face additional competition from foreign manufacturers if they set up their production facilities in the PRC or form Sino-foreign joint ventures with our competitors in the PRC. In the event that we fail to maintain our competitiveness against these competitors, our profitability may be adversely affected. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original legal actions in China based upon U.S. laws, including the federal securities laws or other foreign laws, against us or our management. Almost all of our current operations are conducted in China. Moreover, the majority of our officers and directors are currently nationals and residents of China. All or substantially all of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States and in the PRC. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process upon these persons within the United States or elsewhere outside China. In addition, uncertainty exists as to whether the courts of China would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our officers and/or directors predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original legal actions brought in China against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. 26 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. As a “smaller reporting company,” as defined by Item 10 of Regulation S-K, the Company is not required to provide this information. Item 