ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are several risks inherent in our business including, but not limited to, the following: Risks Relating to Our Business Following the Cash Security Business Sale, we have no operations. Following the closing of the Cash Security Business Sale on October 2, 2006, we have substantially no operations and only two employees resulting in a development stage operation. We have limited management and other resources. Our ability to manage any future operations effectively will require us to hire new employees, to integrate new management and employees into any future operations, financial and management systems, controls and facilities. Our failure to handle the issues we face effectively, including any failure to integrate new management controls, systems and procedures, could materially adversely affect our company, results of operations and financial condition. 6 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Merger and Related Transactions There is no assurance that the Merger will be consummated. Consummation of the Merger is subject to a number of conditions including, without limitation, its approval by the holders of a majority of shares of our common stock. There is no assurance that the Merger will receive requisite stockholder approval. Should we fail to obtain requisite stockholder approval we will be unable to consummate the Merger. Consummation of the Merger will result in a change of control and a fundamental change to our operations. The Merger will result in a change of control of the Company. In addition, following the Merger we will no longer be a shell company but will instead be an operating company and will be subject to any risks associated with Sequoia’s business. The Merger will result in substantial dilution of the ownership interest of current stockholders. Immediately following the Merger, our stockholders will own approximately 20% of the Company’s outstanding common stock on a nondiluted basis. This represents substantial dilution of the ownership interest of current stockholders. Failure to complete the Merger could cause our stock price to decline and could harm our future business and operations. The Merger Agreement contains conditions that we must meet in order to consummate the Merger. In addition, the Merger Agreement may be terminated by either us or Sequoia under certain circumstances. If the Merger is not completed for any reason, we may be subject to a number of risks, including the following: · depending on the reasons for termination, we may be required to pay a termination fee of $1,000,000 to Sequoia if we have selected a superior proposal; · the market price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the Merger will be completed; and · many costs related to the Merger such as legal, accounting, financial advisor and financial printing fees, have to be paid regardless of whether the Merger is completed; The reverse stock split may not increase the market price of our common stock by a multiple we expect. While we expect that the reverse stock split to be effected prior to the Merger will result in an increase in the market price of our common stock, there can be no assurance that the reverse stock split will increase the market price of our common stock by a multiple equal to the exchange number or result in the permanent increase in the market price (which is dependent on many factors, including our performance and prospects). Also, should the market price of our common stock decline, the percentage decline as an absolute number and as a percentage of our overall market capitalization may be greater than would pertain in the absence of a reverse stock split. The reverse stock split may increase our number of odd lot stockholders. The reverse stock split to be effected prior to the Merger may increase the number of our stockholders who own odd lots (owners of less than 100 shares). Stockholders who hold odd lots typically will experience an increase in the cost of selling their shares as well as possible greater difficulty in effecting such sales. ITEM 