ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the exhibits hereto, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. The risks disclosed below, either alone or in combination, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us. An inability to improve our regulatory capital position could adversely affect our operations. At December 31, 2007, Federal Trust Bank was classified as “adequately capitalized,” and not “well capitalized.” As a result of our capital levels: (i) our loan to one borrower limit has been reduced, which affects the size of the loans that we can originate and also requires us to sell, participate, or refuse to renew loans that exceed our lower loans to one borrower limit, both of which could negatively impact our earnings; (ii) we cannot renew or accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval; (iii) we must obtain prior regulatory approval to undertake any branch expansion activities; and (iv) we will pay higher insurance premiums to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which will reduce earnings. To mitigate or resolve these restrictions, we have commenced efforts to raise additional capital and reduce the amount of Federal Trust Bank’s assets to improve the capital ratio to meet the “well capitalized” requirements. There is no assurance at this time, however, that we will be able to raise additional capital or reduce Federal Trust Bank’s assets under favorable terms. A deterioration of our current non-performing loans or an increase in the number of non-performing loans will continue to have an adverse effect on our operations. Weakening economic conditions in the residential real estate sector have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our loan portfolio. Our ratio of non-performing assets to total assets increased significantly in 2007 to 6.9% at year end from 1.7% at December 31, 2006. If loans that are currently non-performing further deteriorate or loans that are currently performing become non-performing loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses. Such an increase would have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to the success of the local economies where we operate. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our primary market area of Orange, Seminole, Volusia, Lake, Flagler and Osceola Counties and throughout Florida. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed. We are currently experiencing adverse economic conditions in some of our market areas, which affects the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies and are thus disproportionately impacted. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do materialize in the future. The market value of the real estate securing our loans as collateral has been adversely affected by the slowing economy and unfavorable changes in economic conditions in our market areas and may be further adversely affected in the future. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 97.3% of our loans receivable were secured by real estate. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by, among other things, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions; fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers; changes in the tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies; and acts of nature. If real estate prices decline in any of these markets, the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans could be reduced, which could ultimately lead to an increase in loan 15 Table of Contents losses. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by the adverse market and economic conditions, including a continued downturn in the real estate values in our markets will adversely affect the ultimate collectability of our loans and also affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We experienced an operating loss during the year ended December 31, 2007 and we may not return to profitability in the future. We experienced a net loss of $14.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. The loss for the year ended December 31, 2007 was caused primarily by a significant increase in non-performing assets, which necessitated a provision for loan losses of $16.4 million, compared to a provision of $639,000 for the year ended December 31, 2006. We charged off $7.6 million of loans during 2007 (compared to $39,000 during 2006), and non-accrual loans (generally loans 90 days or more past due in principal or interest payments) increased to $38.2 million, or 6.4% of total loans at December 31, 2007, compared to $12.0 million, or 1.9% of total loans at December 31, 2006. In addition, we experienced a decline in net interest income to $11.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to $15.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, and we had non-interest expense of $19.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to $12.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. Non-interest expense for 2007 included a $2.9 million charge for the severance and retirement obligation related to the termination of our former Chief Executive Officer, which included $1.1 million to be paid pursuant to the termination of his employment agreement and $1.8 million pursuant to his supplemental retirement plan. We cannot assure you that we will generate net income in the future. Future economic growth in our Florida market area is likely to be slower compared to previous years. The State of Florida’s population growth has historically exceeded national averages. Consequently, the state has experienced substantial growth in population, new business formation and public works spending. Due to the moderation of economic growth and migration into our market area and the downturn in the real estate market, management believes that growth in our market area will be restrained in the near term. Growth in our mortgage loan portfolio has been adversely affected by a slowing in residential real estate sales activity in our markets. Specifically, in 2007, the inventory of homes for sale in our market area has increased to nearly a three-year supply. A decrease in existing and new home sales decreases lending opportunities and negatively affects our income. Our customers who are builders and developers face greater difficulty in selling their homes in markets where these trends are more pronounced. Consequently, we are facing a sharp increase in delinquencies and non-performing assets as these builders and developers are forced to default on their loans with us. We do not anticipate that the housing market will improve in the near-term, and accordingly, this could lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the market value of our loan portfolio, the losses associated with the loans in default and the net realizable value of real estate owned. We make and hold in our portfolio a significant number of land acquisition, development and construction loans, which pose more credit risk than other types of loans typically made by financial institutions. We offer land acquisition, development and construction loans for builders and developers. As of December 31, 2007, approximately $73.8 million of our loan portfolio represented loans for which the related property is neither presold nor preleased. The majority of these loans are for residential developments. These land acquisition, development and construction loans are considered more risky than other types of residential mortgage loans. The primary credit risks associated with land acquisition, development and construction lending are underwriting, project risks and market risks. Project risks include cost overruns, borrower credit risk, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, and environmental and other hazard risks. Market risks are risks associated with the sale of the completed residential units. They include affordability risk, which means the risk of affordability of financing by borrowers, product design risk, and risks posed by competing projects. While we believe we have established adequate reserves on our financial statements to cover the credit risk of our land acquisition, development and construction loan portfolio, there can be no assurance that losses will not exceed our reserves, which could adversely impact our future earnings. Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to absorb losses from loan defaults, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the quality of our assets, particularly loans. In originating loans, there is a substantial likelihood that credit losses will be experienced. The risk of loss will vary with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the quality of the collateral for the loan. 16 Table of Contents Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. As a result, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover any loan losses that may occur. In determining the size of the allowance, we primarily base our evaluation on a review of our loan portfolio and the known risks contained in the loan portfolio, composition and growth of the loan portfolio, Florida real estate values and economic factors. However, the determination of an appropriate level of loan loss allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. If our assumptions are wrong, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses, and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Significant additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. As a result of a difficult real estate market, we increased our provision for loan losses to $16.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, from $639,000 for the year ended December 31, 2006. We can make no assurance that our allowance will be adequate to cover future loan losses given current and future market conditions. In addition, our regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies would have a negative effect on our operating results. Our net interest income could be negatively affected by the Federal Reserve’s recent interest rate adjustments, as well as by competition in our primary market area. As a financial institution, our earnings and cash flows are significantly dependent upon our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest expense that we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Therefore, any change in general market interest rates, including changes resulting from changes in the Federal Reserve’s fiscal and monetary policies, affects us more than non-financial institutions and could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and investment securities and the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but also (1) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (2) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and (3) the average duration of our assets and liabilities. If the interest rates on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates on our loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, would be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates on our loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates on deposits and other borrowings. In response to the dramatic deterioration of the subprime, mortgage, credit and liquidity markets, the Federal Reserve recently has taken action on five occasions to reduce interest rates by a total of 225 basis points since September 2007 (and may reduce rates again), which likely will reduce our net interest income for 2008. Any reduction in our net interest income would negatively affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, operating results, cash flows and/or the price of our securities. We expect to need to raise capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or may be expensive. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. As a result of our losses, we will likely need to raise additional capital to support our business and fund our future growth. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed on favorable terms. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to operate our business and fund our future growth could be materially impaired. Investors may face dilution resulting from the issuance of common stock in the future. We have the power to issue common stock without shareholder approval, up to the number of authorized shares set forth in our Articles of Incorporation. Our Board of Directors may determine from time to time to raise additional capital through the issuance of additional shares of common stock or other securities, subject to limitations imposed by the American Stock Exchange and the Office of Thrift Supervision. There can be no assurance that such shares can be issued at prices or on terms better than or equal to the terms obtained by our current shareholders. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock by us in the future may result in a reduction of the book value or market price, if any, of the then-outstanding common stock. Issuance of additional shares of common stock will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of our existing shareholders. 17 Table of Contents Our ability to service our debt depends on capital distributions from Federal Trust Bank, which are subject to regulatory restrictions. Federal Trust Corporation is a savings and loan holding company and depends upon dividends from Federal Trust Bank to fund a significant portion of its operations. We use dividends from Federal Trust Bank to service our debt obligations, and our ability to service our debt is further subject to restrictions under our indentures and loan covenants. Federal Trust Bank’s ability to pay dividends or make other capital distributions to Federal Trust Corporation is subject to the regulatory authority of the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Because of Federal Trust Bank’s operating losses for the year ended December 31, 2007, Federal Trust Bank cannot pay dividends to Federal Trust Corporation without regulatory approval. Our business may suffer if we lose key employees. Our success is largely dependent on the personal contacts of our officers and employees in our market areas. If we lose key employees, temporarily or permanently, our business could be negatively impacted. In particular, our business would be adversely affected if our key employees went to work for our competitors. Our future success depends on the continued contributions of our existing senior management personnel, including: our Chief Executive Officer and President, Dennis T. Ward; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Gregory E. Smith; Executive Vice President and Senior Loan Officer, Mark E. McRae; Executive Vice President, Branch Administration, Jennifer B. Brodnax; and Senior Vice President and Chief Credit Officer, Lindsay Sandham. We have entered into severance agreements Messrs. Ward, Smith and McRae and Ms. Brodnax, which contain non-competition provisions to help alleviate some of this risk. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. As a unitary savings and loan holding company, Federal Trust Corporation is regulated primarily by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Our current subsidiaries are regulated primarily by the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Florida Office of Finance Regulation. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, incurring debt, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. Our business also is subject to laws, rules and regulations regarding the disclosure of non-public information about our customers to non-affiliated third parties. Our operations on the Internet are not currently subject to direct regulation by any government agency in the United States beyond regulations applicable to businesses generally. A number of legislative and regulatory proposals currently under consideration by the federal, state and local governmental organizations may lead to laws or regulations concerning various aspects of our business on the Internet, including: user privacy, taxation, content, access charges, liability for third-party activities and jurisdiction. The adoption of new laws or a change in the application of existing laws may decrease the use of the Internet, increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Additionally, we cannot predict the effect of any legislation that may be passed at the state or federal level in response to the recent deterioration of the subprime, mortgage, credit and liquidity markets. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Our financial condition and results of operations are reported in accordance with GAAP. While not affecting economic results, future changes in accounting principles issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board could affect our earnings as reported under GAAP. As a public company, we are also subject to the corporate governance standards set forth in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as applicable rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the American Stock Exchange. Complying with these standards, rules and regulations may impose administrative costs and burdens on us. Additionally, political conditions could impact our earnings. Acts or threats of war or terrorism, as well as actions taken by the United States or other governments in response to such acts or threats, could impact the business and economic conditions in which we operate. 18 Table of Contents Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our asset growth and profitability. Our primary market area is the urban areas of Orange, Seminole, Volusia, Lake, Flagler and Osceola Counties. The banking business in these areas is highly competitive and we experience competition from many other financial institutions. Our subsidiaries Federal Trust Bank and Federal Trust Mortgage Company experience competition in both lending and attracting funds from other banks, savings institutions, and non-bank financial institutions located within our market area, many of which are significantly larger institutions. Non-bank institutions competing for deposits and deposit type accounts include mortgage bankers and brokers, finance companies, credit unions, securities firms, money market funds, life insurance companies and mutual funds. For loans, we encounter competition from other banks, savings associations, finance companies, mortgage bankers and brokers, insurance companies, small loan and credit card companies, credit unions, pension trusts and securities firms. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts, and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we can give no assurance that this strategy will be successful. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure and failures in this infrastructure could interrupt our operations or increase the cost of doing business. Third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure such as banking services, processing, Internet connections and network access. Any disruption in such services provided by these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. Technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect our business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. We may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. Failures in our business infrastructure could interrupt our operations or increase the cost of doing business. Federal Trust Corporation and its subsidiaries operate in an environment highly regulated by state and federal government; changes in banking laws and regulations could have a negative effect on our business. As a unitary savings and loan holding company, Federal Trust Corporation is regulated primarily by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Our current Subsidiaries are regulated primarily by the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Florida Office of Finance Regulation. Federal and various state laws and regulations govern numerous aspects of our operations and the operations of our Subsidiaries, including: • Adequate capital and financial condition; • Permissible types and amounts of extensions of credit and investments; • Permissible non-banking activities; and • Restrictions on dividend payments. Such laws, regulations and supervision govern the activities in which companies may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the federal deposit insurance fund and depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of assets and the adequacy of a financial institution’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material effect on us. These laws, rules and regulations are frequently changed by legislative and regulatory authorities. There can be no assurance that changes to existing laws, rules and regulations, or any other new laws, rules or regulations, will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. 19 Table of Contents We may face risks with respect to future expansion and acquisitions or mergers. As a part of our strategy, in the future, we may seek to increase the size of our franchise through branch expansion and growth, and by aggressively pursuing business development opportunities. We may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. We also may receive future inquiries and have discussions with potential acquirers of us. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; • the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution may not be accurate; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; • our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combining businesses; • entry into new markets where we lack experience; • the introduction of new products and services into our business; • the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on our results of operations; and • the risk of loss of key employees and customers. To carry out some of our expansion plans, we are required to obtain permission from the Office of Thrift Supervision. Application for the acquisition of existing thrifts and banks are submitted to the federal and state bank regulatory agencies for their approval. The future climate for regulatory approval is impossible to predict. Regulatory agencies could prohibit or otherwise significantly restrict our expansion plans, as well as those of our subsidiaries, which could limit our ability to increase revenue. Additionally, we may incur substantial costs to expand, and we can give no assurance that such expansion will result in the levels of profits we seek. There can be no assurance that, integration efforts for any future mergers or acquisitions will be successful. Also, we may issue equity securities, including common stock and securities convertible into shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our current shareholders. There is no assurance that, following any future merger or acquisition, our integration efforts will be successful or that our company, after giving effect to the acquisition, will achieve profits comparable to or better than our historical experience. Future sales of our common stock could further depress the price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by our shareholders, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Various factors may make takeover attempts more difficult to achieve. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, federal law and regulations, Florida law and various other factors may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of Federal Trust Corporation without the consent of our Board of Directors. You may want a takeover attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential acquiror could offer a premium over the then prevailing price of our common stock. Factors that may discourage takeover attempts or make them more difficult include: • Florida statutes that restrict voting rights of stockholders who acquire certain amounts of our shares of common stock, that restrict transactions with certain stockholders and that allow a company to not require cumulative voting in the election of directors; 20 Table of Contents • Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation that provide for staggered terms for our board of directors and that restrict transactions with certain stockholders; • Provisions in our Bylaws regarding the timing and content of stockholder proposals and nominations and qualification for service on the Board of Directors; and • Federal law and regulations that restrict the acquisition of control of a federal savings institution without prior written approval or non-objection from the Office of Thrift Supervision. Although publicly traded, our common stock has substantially less liquidity than the average liquidity for stocks quoted on the American Stock Exchange. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the American Stock Exchange our common stock has substantially less liquidity than the average liquidity for companies quoted on the American Stock Exchange. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This marketplace depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. This limited market may affect your ability to sell your shares on short notice, and the sale of a large number of shares at one time could temporarily depress the market price of our common stock. For these reasons, our common stock should not be viewed as a short-term investment. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 Table of Contents 