Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to certain risks, and we want you to review these risks while you are evaluating our business and our historical results. Please keep in mind, that any of the following risks discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report could materially and adversely affect us, our operating results, our financial condition and our projections and beliefs as to our future performance. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently deem to be less material may also materially and adversely affect our business. We face significant competition from other consumer products companies, many of which have significantly greater financial resources. The markets for our products are highly competitive and are characterized by the frequent introduction of new products, often accompanied by major advertising and promotional programs. We believe that the market for consumer–packaged goods will continue to be highly competitive and that the level of competition may intensify in the future. Our competitors consist of a large number of domestic and foreign companies, a number of which have significantly greater financial resources than we do and are not as highly leveraged as we are. If we are unable to continue to introduce new and innovative products that are attractive to consumers, or are unable to allocate sufficient resources to effectively market and advertise our products so that they achieve widespread market acceptance, we may not be able to compete effectively and our operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected, which may also result in the impairment of certain assets. Our sales and financial results may be adversely affected if our new product launches are not successful. If we are unable to introduce new products, or if our advertising, promotional, merchandising or other marketing strategies for these new products are not successful and these products are not accepted by our customers or the ultimate consumer, or if we do not successfully manage the timing of new product introductions or the profitability of these efforts, or if our end consumers perceive competitors’ products as having greater appeal, then our sales and financial results may suffer. Sales of some of our products may suffer because of unfavorable weather conditions. Our product sales, especially our Sun Care products, may be negatively impacted by unfavorable weather conditions. In accordance with industry practice, we allow customers to return unsold Sun Care products at the end of the season, under certain circumstances, and these product returns may be higher in years when the weather is unseasonably cool or wet. This could adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, consumption of our Feminine Care and Wet Ones products may be affected by unfavorable weather, although to a lesser extent than the Sun Care products, due primarily to reduced levels of outdoor activities. 8 We rely on third-party manufacturers for a portion of our product portfolio. We use third-party manufacturers to make products representing approximately 40% of our fiscal 2006 net sales, including our Banana Boat products and plastic molded products and components. In many cases, third-party manufacturers are not bound by fixed-term commitments in our contracts with them, and they may discontinue production with little or no advance notice. Third-party manufacturers also may experience problems with product quality or timeliness of product delivery. The loss of a third-party manufacturer may force us to shift production, which may cause manufacturing delays and disrupt our ability to fill orders. We are not able to control the manufacturing efforts of these third-party manufacturers as closely as we control our own business. Should any of these third-party manufacturers fail to meet our standards, we may face regulatory sanctions, product liability claims or consumer complaints, any of which could harm our reputation and our business. We may be adversely affected by pricing and availability of raw materials. We purchase certain raw materials, including amongst other things, resins, rayon and corrugate, which are subject to price volatility and inflationary pressures that are out of our control. Market conditions and competitive activity may prevent us from passing these increased costs on to our customers through timely price increases. As a result, higher raw material costs may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. While these raw materials are generally readily available on the open market, if we were unable to maintain the availability and sourcing of these raw materials, our results could be adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by the trend toward retail trade consolidation, which may further our reliance on a few large customers. With the growing trend toward retail trade consolidation, we are increasingly dependent upon key retailers whose bargaining strength is growing. We may be adversely affected by changes in the policies of our retail trade customers, such as inventory destocking, limitations on access to shelf space and other conditions. A few of our customers are material to our business and operations. In fiscal 2006, Wal–Mart, our largest customer, and Target, our second largest customer, represented approximately 29% and 12%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. Aggregate consolidated net sales to our next three largest customers represented approximately 12% of our total consolidated net sales in fiscal 2006. The loss of sales to a large customer could materially and adversely affect us, our operating results, our financial condition and our projections and beliefs as to our future performance. Possible acquisitions are subject to risks and may not be successful. We may consider the acquisition of other companies engaged in the manufacture and sale of consumer products. At any given time, we may be in various stages of looking at these opportunities. Acquisitions are subject to the negotiation of definitive agreements and to other matters typical in acquisition transactions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify desirable acquisition candidates or will be successful in entering into definitive agreements relating to them. Even if definitive agreements are entered into, we cannot assure you that any future acquisition will be completed or that anticipated benefits of the acquisition will be realized. The process of integrating acquired operations into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties, may absorb significant management attention and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations or further debt reduction. Future acquisitions by us could result in the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities, which may have an adverse effect on our operating results. We may be adversely affected by governmental regulations that may materially restrict or impede our operations. Portions of our business are subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in which we do business, and the general trend is toward increasingly stringent regulation. In the United States, many of our products have long been subject to regulation by various federal and state agencies, primarily as to product safety, efficacy, manufacturing, advertising, labeling and safety reporting. The exercise of broad regulatory powers by the Food and Drug Administration continues to result in increases in the amounts of required testing and documentation. Similar trends are also evident in markets outside of the United States. The regulatory agencies, under whose purview we operate, have administrative powers that may result in such actions as product withdrawals, recalls, seizure of 9 products and other civil and criminal sanctions. In some cases, we may deem it advisable to initiate product recalls. These potential regulatory actions may materially restrict or impede our operations and may adversely affect our operating results. We have a material amount of goodwill, trademarks, patents and other intangible assets, as well as other long-lived assets, which, if they become impaired, would result in a reduction in our net income. Current accounting standards require that intangible assets with indefinite lives be periodically evaluated for impairment. Declines in our profitability and or estimated cash flow streams related to specific intangible assets may impact the fair value of these intangible assets and other long-lived assets, which could result in an impairment charge. These charges may have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. While we believe that our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property have significant value, it is uncertain that this intellectual property, or any intellectual property licensed, acquired or developed by us in the future, will provide meaningful competitive advantages. There can be no assurance that our patents or pending applications will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by competitors or that rights granted thereunder will provide meaningful proprietary protection. Moreover, competitors may infringe our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. To combat infringement or unauthorized use, we may need to commence litigation, which can be expensive and time–consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding a court may decide that a patent, trademark or other intellectual property right of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology or other intellectual property right at issue on the grounds that it is non–infringing. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to, or have the resources to, prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as do the laws of the United States. We may face liability associated with the use of products for which patent ownership or other intellectual property rights are claimed. We may be subject to claims or inquiries regarding alleged unauthorized use of a third party’s intellectual property. An adverse outcome in any intellectual property litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to license technology or other intellectual property rights from others, require us to comply with injunctions to cease marketing or using certain products or brands, or require us to redesign, reengineer or rebrand certain products or packaging, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are required to seek licenses under patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights of others, we may not be able to acquire these licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, the cost of responding to an intellectual property infringement claim, in terms of legal fees and expenses and the diversion of management resources, whether or not the claim is valid, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have substantial debt, which could impair our financial condition. Our indebtedness at December 30, 2006 consisted of $578.9 million in fixed rate notes. As more fully described in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10–K, we are highly leveraged. However, other than interest payment obligations, we do not have required debt service obligations for our notes until 2011. Any outstanding balance on our revolver is payable at the 2009 maturity date. The degree to which we are leveraged could have adverse consequences to us, including: Our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes may be impaired; A significant portion of our cash from operations must be dedicated to the payment of interest on our debt, which reduces the funds available to us for our operations; Our vulnerability in a period of significant economic downturn; and Limitation on our ability to withstand significant and sustained competitive pressures. 10 The terms of our revolver and our indentures may limit certain activities. Our revolver and the indentures governing the fixed rate notes contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including among other things our ability to: Incur additional debt and contingent obligations; Pay dividends and make restricted payments; Make investments, loans and acquisitions; Create liens; Make payments on certain debt and modifications to certain debt; Sell assets and subsidiary stock; Enter into transactions with affiliates; and Enter into certain mergers, consolidations and transfers of all or substantially all of our assets. A failure to comply with the restrictions contained in our revolver could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of any indebtedness outstanding under our revolver and could cause a cross–default of our indentures. A failure to comply with the restrictions in our indentures could result in an event of default under our indentures and could cause a cross–default of our revolver. We cannot assure you that our future operating results will be sufficient to enable us to remedy any such default. In addition, in the event of an acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 