Item 1A. Risk Factors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Item 2. Properties. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Item 6. Selected Financial Data. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. Item 9B. Other Information. PART II Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. Item 11. Executive Compensation. Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services. PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. Signature Page Exhibit Index - 2 - - Table of Contents Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements This annual report contains forward-looking statements as that term is defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as "may," "should," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "continue," "intends," and other variations of these words or comparable words. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of events, circumstances or trends and that do not relate to historical matters are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based largely on our expectations or forecasts of future events, can be affected by inaccurate assumptions, and are subject to various business risks and known and unknown uncertainties, a number of which are beyond our control. Therefore, actual results could differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained in this document, and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, including the risks in the section entitled “Risk Factors” that may cause our or our industry’s actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we do not undertake to update or revise any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. As used in this annual report, “Xstream Mobile Solutions Corp.,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” “our,”or “XSM” refer to Xstream Mobile Solutions Corp., unless otherwise indicated. - 3 - - Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business. Corporate History We were incorporated as a Delaware corporation on May 10, 1998 under the name Environmental Monitoring and Testing Corporation. Since our incorporation, we provided electronic filing services to companies that are required to electronically file disclosure information with the Securities and Exchange Commission "SEC." The Company filed a Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission and changed its name to Netchoice, Inc., effective February 3, 2005. Subsequent to the reporting period, the Company filed a Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission and changed its name to Xstream Mobile Solutions Corp. effective December 19, 2005. Business of the Issuer In 2006 Xstream deployed its flagship software, Xstream Safe, in the Will County EMA. Were proud to say after more than a year of utilizing our product internally, Will County EMA was quite pleased with its performance. Xstream currently has systems in use by the Lemont Illinois EMA and they also have been using it for a year with great success. Additionally, in 2006 we discussed the possibilities of installations in the Kankakee County Sheriff's Department and the Manteno Police Department. That now has been successfully completed and phase 1 is installed and operating. We have now begun the deployment of our systems in 28 school districts in Kankakee and Iroquois counties, over 70 schools. In Nov. 2006 Xstream deployed our SAFE system with the New Lenox Police Dept. and should be operating by years end. XSM has also deployed our Safe system with the Metro East Emergency Response Team in southern Illinois. Ultimately, XSM has agreed to deploy an additional 5 systems covering the entire state of Illinois. Also over the last year we have made great strides in our relationships with the cellular providers, achieving high-level contacts and important technical relationships, helping in securing a higher level of performance and customer care for our software systems customers. We have now installed our XSM Sentinel secure servers in a hardened Equinix IBX server location in downtown Chicago. XSM has done a great deal of marketing directly to every sheriff's office in every county in the state of Illinois. We also have attended many professional emergency and educational conferences and trade shows. This has had a very positive affect on our product visibility. In the end of 2007 and beginning of 2008, Xstream is preparing to experience major achievements. We have received the green light in Iroquois and Kankakee County IL to begin deployment of our safety products in over 70 schools in 28 school districts. This will mark the first utilization of XSM's safety products in educational organizations, the fulfillment of a major corporate goal - - to see our safety products expand the level of protection our children enjoy. - 4 - - Table of Contents Xstream Mobile Solutions is actively seeking to expand its sales force and create third party distribution agreements for our corporate and safety products. We have had discussions with Motorola, Sprint/Nextel, and Federal Sign. We have also partnered with Microsoft, Symantec, Verizion, AT&T, US Cellular and T-Mobile to increase our product visibility. Any third party distribution deal should create a substantial revenue stream from these external agreements. In regards to our educational distribution, we're pleased to say that we are in discussions with several school districts that were not mentioned earlier in this report. Those districts are 230 and district 122 that, should we consummate an agreement with them, will also help us to expand and grow into the educational market. These schools represent a significant portion of the south suburban areas. We are pleased to announce that we currently have many pending safety product sales in the State of Illinois. Various counties, cities, healthcare providers, and Emergency organizations that we are in discussions with are scheduled for additional meetings. Some are currently reviewing our products based on an earlier meeting. Many of these entities have indicated they are interested in potentially coming on board. This will obviously enhance our position in the state of Illinois. With the addition of these communities we will have achieved the goal of assisting in the protection of well over a million people. We are also actively pursuing deals in Indiana and Texas. XSM devotes a great deal of time and economics towards keeping the Xstream Mobile Solutions web site as informative and accurate as possible. We feel that this is the best way to stay directly in touch with the public and our stockholders. Description of Business We are creating and marketing Software for the emergency text message market. Xstream Safe© allows your organization to easily send messages to anyone or everyone in a database from any internet accessible computer. DBM-1©: Database Migration Software creates databases automatically for an organization. Import/Export: provides the ability to import and export existing contact databases, if needed. Archive of sent messages and two methods of Delivery: Send Text, E-mail or both simultaneously. Cell-Enabled Message Interface: Send messages from internet capable devices (cell phones, PDA’s, etc.) Message Storage: Store messages for easy retrieval when seconds count. Both Client-Side and Server-Side Capabilities: This means that sensitive personal data is stored on your server, not a server in another state or country. Certification Indicator: Lets you know that people in groups have tested and registered their phones. Contact Size: Scalable from small groups of 1-100 up to large groups encompassing tens of thousands. Patents, Licenses, Trademarks, Intellectual Property, Franchises, Concessions, Royalty Agreements, or Labor Contracts We do not own any interest in a patent, trademark, license, franchise, concession, or royalty agreement. Employees We currently have three full-time administrative employees. Our employees are not represented by labor unions or collective bargaining agreements. Our key employees are Mr. Michael See, founder, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mr. Joseph Johns, Director, Chief Financial Officer and President, and Mrs. Cynthia See, Director and Secretary. Government Regulation We are not aware of any existing or probable governmental regulation that will have a material impact on our company. We are not subject to any compliance with environmental laws. Research and Development We did not incur any research or development expenditures during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2007 or 2006. - 5 - - Table of Contents ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating our business and us. The factors listed below represent certain important factors that we believe could cause our business results to differ. These factors are not intended to represent a complete list of the general or specific risks that may affect us. It should be recognized that other risks may be significant, presently or in the future, and the risks set forth below may affect us to a greater extent than indicated. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. You should also consider the other information included in this Annual Report and subsequent quarterly reports filed with the SEC. Risk Factors Risks Associated With Our Business Our accountants have raised substantial doubt with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. As noted in our financial statements, we have incurred a net loss of $ $ 5,610,767 for the period from inception on May 10, 1998 to September 30, 2007 and have present no source of revenue. At September 30, 2007, we had a working capital of $28,367 . As of September 30, 2007, we had cash and cash equivalents in the amount of $51,724. We will have to raise additional funds to meet our currently budgeted operating requirements for the next twelve months. The audit report of Bagell, Josephs, Levine & Company, L.L.C. Certified Public Accountants for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007 and 2006 contained a paragraph that emphasizes the substantial doubt as to our continuance as a going concern. This is a significant risk that we may not be able to generate and/or raise enough resources to remain operational for an indefinite period of time. We have a limited operating history and have incurred losses that we expect may continue into the future. We have not yet secured sufficient users of our software in order to fully fund our day to day operating expenses. In addition, we have a limited operating history upon which an evaluation of our future success or failure can be made. Our business plan is in its early stages and faces numerous regulatory, practical, legal and other obstacles. At this early stage of our operation, we also expect to face the risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies at the start-up stage of their business development. We cannot be sure that we will be successful in addressing these risks and uncertainties, and our failure to do so could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition. We do not have enough money to complete our marketing plan and consequently may have to suspend or limit our operations unless we are able to raise additional capital. We presently do not have sufficient capital to exercise our marketing plan. Although management believes that sources of capital are available, no assurances can be given that these capital sources will ultimately be sufficient. Our success is dependent upon a limited number of people. The ability to identify, negotiate and consummate transactions that will benefit us is dependent upon the efforts of our management team. The loss of the services of any member of management could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business will be harmed if we are unable to manage growth. Our business may experience periods of rapid growth that will place significant demands on our managerial, operational and financial resources. In order to manage this possible growth, we must continue to improve and expand our management, operational and financial systems and controls. We will need to expand, train and manage our employee base. No assurances can be given that we will be able to timely and effectively meet such demands. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the implementation of our business strategy. Our future success depends largely upon the continued service of board members, executive officers and other key personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. - 6 - - Table of Contents Our officers and directors may have conflicts of interest and do not devote full time to our operations. Mr. See, our chief executive officer and Mr. Johns, our chief financial officer, devote 20 to 30 hours per week to our business affairs. We do not have any employment agreements with Mr. See or Mr. Johns nor do we maintain a key man life insurance policy for them. Currently, we do not have any full or part-time employees and hire consultants on an as-needed basis. If the demands of our business require the full business time of Mr. See or Mr. Johns, it is possible that Mr. See or Mr. Johns will not be able to devote sufficient time to the management of our business, as and when needed. If our management is unable to devote a sufficient amount of time to manage our operations, our business will fail. If we are not granted trademark and copyright protection for our designs, we may have difficulty safeguarding our designs potentially resulting in our competitors utilizing them impairing our ability to achieve profitable operations. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property rights over our name and original designs in the United States. As of September 30, 2007, we have not sought any trademark or trade name registrations. No assurance can be given that any intellectual property rights owned by us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, that any rights granted will provide competitive advantages to us. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming, and can be used by well-funded adversaries as a strategy for depleting the resources of a small company such as us. There is no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to successfully prosecute our interests in any litigation that may be brought. The failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and original designs could result in our competitors utilizing our designs and impair our ability to achieve profitable operations. Because the demand for our services is continually changing in nature, our inability to effectively manage cash flows could harm our business. We are primarily in the business of providing media, internet, wireless and telecommunications services to those who benefit from the interactive lifestyle. As a result, the demand for our media services is continually changing. The technology of our business requires us to manage our cash flows carefully over the course of any given fiscal year. If we fail to manage our cash flows effectively in response to media and telecommunication changes, we may be unable to offset the results from any such period with results from other periods, which could impair our ability to meet cash flow needs. If we fail to monitor production and distribution accurately during these periods and are unable to satisfy our customers' delivery requirements, we could jeopardize our relationships with our customers. In the event that we are unable to successfully compete within the software business, we may not be able to achieve profitable operations. We face substantial competition in the industry. Due to our small size, it can be assumed that many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other competitive resources. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have greater name recognition and more extensive distribution and customer bases that could be leveraged, for example, to position themselves as being more experienced. To compete, we may be forced to offer lower prices and narrow our marketing focus, resulting in reduced revenues. If we are unable to deliver our services on time to our consumers’ specifications, we could suffer lost sales. The success of our business depends on our ability to deliver our services to our consumers’ specifications for time sensitive events. We are dependent on major cellular telephone companies and their existing infrastructure to deliver our services. Disruptions in the delivery of our services for any reason could delay timely sales, which could result in cancelled sales. Risks Relating to our Common Stock Trading on the over-the-counter bulletin board may be volatile and sporadic, which could depress the market price of our common stock and make it difficult for our stockholders to resell their shares. Our common stock is quoted on the over-the-counter bulletin board service of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (the “OTCBB”). Trading in stock quoted on the OTCBB is often thin and characterized by wide fluctuations in trading prices, due to many factors that may have little to do with our operations or business prospects. This volatility could depress the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to operating performance. Moreover, the OTCBB is not a stock exchange, and trading of securities on the OTCBB is often more sporadic than the trading of securities listed on a quotation system like Nasdaq or a stock exchange like Amex. Accordingly, shareholders may have difficulty reselling any of the shares. - 7 - - Table of Contents Because our common stock is quoted and traded on the OTCBB, short selling could increase the volatility of our stock price. Short selling occurs when a person sells shares of stock which the person does not yet own and promises to buy stock in the future to cover the sale. The general objective of the person selling the shares short is to make a profit by buying the shares later, at a lower price, to cover the sale. Significant amounts of short selling, or the perception that a significant amount of short sales could occur, could depress the market price of our common stock. In contrast, purchases to cover a short position may have the effect of preventing or retarding a decline in the market price of our common stock, and together with the imposition of the penalty bid, may stabilize, maintain or otherwise affect the market price of our common stock. As a result, the price of our common stock may be higher than the price that otherwise might exist in the open market. If these activities are commenced, they may be discontinued at any time. These transactions may be effected on the OTCBB or any other available markets or exchanges. Such short selling if it were to occur could impact the value of our stock in an extreme and volatile manner to the detriment of our shareholders. New legislation, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, may make it more difficult for us to retain or attract officers and directors. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was enacted in response to public concerns regarding corporate accountability in connection with recent accounting scandals. The stated goals of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act are to increase corporate responsibility, to provide for enhanced penalties for accounting and auditing improprieties at publicly traded companies, and to protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of corporate disclosures pursuant to the securities laws. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act generally applies to all companies that file or are required to file periodic reports with the SEC, under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Upon becoming a public company, we will be required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has resulted in a series of rules and regulations by the SEC that increase responsibilities and liabilities of directors and executive officers. The perceived increased personal risk associated with these recent changes may deter qualified individuals from accepting these roles. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We continue to evaluate and monitor developments with respect to these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. We have never paid dividends and have no plans to in the foreseeable future. Holders of shares of our common stock are entitled to receive such dividends as may be declared by our board of directors. To date, we have paid no cash dividends on our shares of common stock and we do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain future earnings, if any, to provide funds for operation of our business. Therefore, any return investors in our common stock will have to be in the form of appreciation, if any, in the market value of their shares of common stock. We have additional securities available for issuance, which, if issued, could adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of additional shares of our common stock and additional shares of preferred stock. The common stock or preferred stock can be issued by our board of directors, without stockholder approval. Any future issuances of our common stock would further dilute the percentage ownership of our common stock held by public stockholders. Because the SEC imposes additional sales practice requirements on brokers who deal in our shares that are penny stocks, some brokers may be unwilling to trade them. This means that you may have difficulty in reselling your shares and may cause the price of the shares to decline. Our stock is a penny stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 15g-9 which generally defines “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors”. The term “accredited investor” refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in, and limit the marketability of, our common stock. - 8 - - Table of Contents In addition to the “penny stock” rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, FINRA has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative, low-priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low-priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock. Indemnification of officers and directors. Our articles of incorporation and the bylaws contain broad indemnification and liability limiting provisions regarding our officers, directors and employees, including the limitation of liability for certain violations of fiduciary duties. Our stockholders therefore will have only limited recourse against such individuals. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 