ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the events contemplated by the following risks actually occurs, then our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We caution the reader that these risk factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. We can neither predict these new risk factors, nor can we assess the impact, if any, of these new risk factors on our businesses or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Our announcement that we had entered into a definitive merger agreement with National Oilwell Varco in an all-cash transaction could adversely affect our business. On August 8, 2012, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with National Oilwell Varco in an all cash transaction. Upon the closing of the merger, each of our shareholders will receive $60.00 in cash for each common share they own. Consummation of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including obtaining certain regulatory approvals, as well as approval from our Company’s shareholders. Expected synergies associated with the transaction may require the merger of certain of our operations into those of NOV, which could result in the termination of a number of our employees and restructuring of certain of our operations. The announcement and pending nature of the transaction could potentially cause disruptions in our business (including certain merger-related operational contractual restrictions and additional legal and regulatory proceedings), and have an adverse effect on our relationship with our customers, vendors, and employees. In addition, it could result in diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns, employee retention issues, added merger-related costs, and the possibility that alternative takeover proposals will or will not be made, which could, in turn, have an adverse effect on our business, financial results, and operations. The consummation of the proposed merger transaction with National Oilwell Varco is not certain, and its delay or failure could adversely affect our business. There is no assurance that the proposed merger transaction with National Oilwell Varco will occur. In addition, we cannot predict the exact timing of the consummation of the transaction. Consummation of the transaction is subject to the satisfaction of various conditions, including obtaining certain regulatory approvals and the approval of our Company’s shareholders. A number of the conditions are not within our control. We cannot assure that all closing conditions will be satisfied, that we will receive the required governmental approvals, or that the transaction will be successfully consummated. If the transaction is not completed, the price of our common shares may change to the extent that the current market price of our common shares reflects the assumption that the transaction will be completed. In addition, a failed transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community. Under certain circumstances, upon termination of the merger agreement, we could be required to pay a termination fee of $75 million to National Oilwell Varco, or its costs and expenses. Some of our end-markets are cyclical, which may cause fluctuations in our sales and operating results. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in operating results due to business cycles. We sell our products principally to energy, chemical, industrial and pharmaceutical markets. While we serve a variety of markets, the purchase of T-3 Energy Services, Inc. and the sale of our Romaco businesses in fiscal 2011 have resulted in a significant portion of our business being focused in the energy market. A significant downturn in any of these markets, especially energy, could cause a material adverse impact on our sales and operating results. In addition, there is a risk that if our future operating results significantly decline, it could impair our ability to realize our deferred tax assets. Our businesses are adversely affected by economic downturns and volatility in the equity markets or interest rates could adversely impact the funded status of our pension plans. While economic conditions improved in fiscal 2012, business conditions could worsen in the future. Furthermore, our backlog may not be converted to revenue due to customer order cancellations. We cannot predict the timing or duration of any economic slowdown or the timing or strength of a subsequent recovery, worldwide, or in the specific end markets we serve. In particular, the European debt crisis and the instability and uncertainty relating to the Euro could constrain government budgets, limit the financing available to our suppliers and customers and adversely affect the economies and capital markets in Europe and other 4 geographies, which could, in turn, adversely affect demand for our products, the availability of supplies and the value of our Euro-denominated assets and obligations. If our markets significantly deteriorate due to these economic effects, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, our share price could decrease if investors have concerns that our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively impacted by a worldwide economic downturn. In addition, our defined benefit pension plans invest in fixed income and equity securities to fund related benefit obligations under those plans. The performance of the financial markets and interest rates impact our funding obligations under our defined benefit pension plans. Significant changes in market interest rates, decreases in the fair value of our plan assets and investment losses on plan assets may increase our future funding obligations and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows over the long-term. Our restructuring activities could affect our business and financial results. To improve operational efficiency, we occasionally initiate programs to streamline operations and reduce expenses, including measures such as reductions in workforce and discretionary spending. We generally expect these initiatives to generate significant savings that we can invest in our growth initiatives and long-term value enhancing strategy. Our failure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement from these initiatives could adversely affect our profitability and weaken our competitive position. Because we cannot always immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements, which could result in the loss of customers, loss of market share and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. Approximately 43% of our sales are to customers outside the United States, and we are subject to economic and political and currency fluctuation risks or devaluation associated with international operations. Approximately 43% of our fiscal 2012 sales were to customers outside the U.S., and we maintain primary operations in 15 countries. Conducting business outside the U.S. is subject to risks, including currency exchange rate fluctuations and the possibility of hyper-inflationary conditions; changes in regional, political or economic conditions including trade protection measures, such as tariffs or import/export restrictions; subsidies or increased access to capital for firms who are currently, or may emerge, as competitors in countries in which we have operations; partial or total expropriation; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and international sentiment towards the U.S. One or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations. Furthermore, unexpected and dramatic devaluations of currencies in developing or emerging markets could negatively affect the value of our earnings from, and of the assets located in, those markets. Regulatory and legal developments including changes to United States taxation rules, health care reform, offshore drilling and hydraulic fracturing process legislation, governmental greenhouse gases emission restrictions and climate change initiatives could negatively affect our financial performance. Our operations and the markets we compete in are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign governmental laws and regulations. Existing laws and regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations, including taxation rules, health care reform, offshore drilling and hydraulic fracturing process legislation, governmental greenhouse gases emission restrictions and climate change initiatives, may be adopted or become applicable to us or our customers. New regulations like the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act may also increase our expenses and our customers’ requirements from us. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time and may increase our costs and reduce profitability. We cannot predict the form any such new laws or regulations will take or the impact these laws and regulations will have on our business or operations. However, significant changes in governmental laws and regulations could adversely affect our future results of operations. Adverse weather conditions in certain regions could adversely affect our operations. From time to time, hurricanes, typhoons and severe weather impact our operations. These storms and associated threats reduce the number of days on which we and our customers operate which results in lower revenues than we otherwise would have achieved. Our Canadian operations, particularly in the third quarter of each fiscal year, may vary greatly depending on the timing of “break-up”, or the spring thaw, which annually results in a period in which conditions are not conducive to operations and could reduce our operations and revenues during the relevant period. 5 We must comply with a variety of import and export laws and regulations, and the cost of compliance as well as the consequences of failure to properly comply with such laws could adversely affect our business. We are subject to a variety of laws regarding our international operations, including regulations issued by the U.S. Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security and various foreign governmental agencies. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international manufacturing operations and trading practices might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. Future regulations could limit the countries in which certain of our products may be manufactured or sold or could restrict our access to, and increase the cost of, obtaining products from foreign sources. In addition, actual or alleged violations of import-export laws could result in enforcement actions and substantial financial penalties. Our reputation, ability to do business and financial statements may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, business partners or agents. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from acts committed by our employees, business partners or agents that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, anti-kickback and false claims rules, competition, export and import compliance, money laundering and data privacy. In particular, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and related shareholder lawsuits, could cause us to incur significant legal fees and could damage our reputation. Competition in our markets could cause our sales to decrease. We face significant competition from a variety of competitors in our markets. In some markets, our competitors have greater resources than we do and in some cases we sell to our competitors. In addition, new competitors could enter our markets. Competitive pressures, including product quality, performance, price and service capabilities, and new technologies could adversely affect our competitive position, involving a loss of market share or decrease in prices, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results. The nature of our products creates the possibility of product liability lawsuits, which could harm our business. As a global manufacturer of a broad range of equipment and systems for use in various markets, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims. Although we maintain strict quality controls and procedures, we cannot be certain that our products will be completely free from defect. In addition, in certain cases, we rely on third-party manufacturers for components of our products. Although we have liability insurance coverage, we cannot be certain that this insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost or will be adequate to cover any such liabilities. We generally seek to obtain contractual indemnification from our third-party suppliers, which is typically limited by its terms. In the event we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification, product liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Even if a product liability claim is without merit, it could harm our business. Our results of operations could vary based on the availability and cost of our raw materials. The prices of our raw materials may increase. The costs of raw materials used by us are affected by fluctuations in the price of metals such as steel. Our ability to obtain parts and raw materials from our suppliers is uncertain. We are engaged in a continuous, company-wide effort to concentrate our purchases of parts and raw materials on fewer suppliers, and to obtain parts from low-cost countries where possible. As this effort progresses, we are exposed to an increased risk of disruptions to our supply chain, which could have a significant effect on our operating results. 6 Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies or due to changes in accounting standards. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies could have a significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Part II, Item 7 of this Report). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time, that lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Additionally, changes in accounting standards, including new interpretations and application of accounting standards, may change our reported financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Any impairment in the value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, would negatively affect our operating results and total capitalization. Our total assets reflect substantial intangible assets, primarily goodwill. The goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets we have acquired. We assess at least annually whether there has been any impairment in the value of our intangible assets. If future operating performance at one or more of our business units were to fall significantly below current levels, if competing or alternative technologies emerge, if we are unable to effectively integrate acquired businesses, or if market conditions for acquired businesses decline, if significant and prolonged negative industry or economic trends continue, if our stock price and market capitalization declines, or if future cash flow estimates decline, we could incur, under current applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating earnings for goodwill impairment. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of unamortized intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations and total capitalization, the effect of which could be material. Work stoppages, union and works council campaigns, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force could adversely impact our results of operations and cause us to incur incremental costs. We have a number of U.S. collective bargaining units and various non-U.S. collective labor arrangements. We are subject to potential work stoppages, union and works council campaigns and potential labor disputes, any of which could adversely impact our productivity and results of operations. Our growth and results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in our capital allocation and acquisition program. Additionally, an increase in the number of our outstanding common shares could adversely affect our common share price or dilute our earnings per share. We expect to continue our strategy of seeking to acquire add-on businesses that broaden our existing businesses and our global reach, as well as, in the right circumstances, strategically pursuing larger, stand-alone businesses that have the potential to either complement our existing businesses or allow us to pursue a new platform. However, there can be no assurance that we will find suitable businesses to purchase or that the associated price would be acceptable. If we are unsuccessful in the acquisition efforts, then our ability to grow could be adversely affected. In addition, a completed acquisition, may under-perform relative to expectations, be unable to achieve synergies originally anticipated, or require the payment of additional expenses for assumed liabilities. Further, failure to allocate capital appropriately could also result in significant exposure to certain markets and geographies. Additionally, issuance of a significant number of common shares in connection with acquisitions may adversely affect our common share price or have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share. These factors could potentially have an adverse impact on our operating profits and cash flows. Divestitures could negatively impact our business, and contingent liabilities from businesses that we have sold could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We continually assess the strategic fit of our existing businesses and have in the past, and may in the future, divest businesses that are deemed not to fit with our strategic plan or are not achieving the desired return on investment. Divestitures pose risks and challenges that could negatively affect our business, including the potentially dilutive effect on our earnings per share and other financial impacts, potential disputes with buyers and distraction of management’s attention from core businesses. In addition, we have retained responsibility for, and in certain cases have agreed to, indemnify buyers against contingent liabilities related to the businesses we have sold, such as lawsuits, tax liabilities and product liabilities claims. 7 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 