ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the events contemplated by the following risks actually occurs, then our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We caution the reader that these risk factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. We can neither predict these new risk factors, nor can we assess the impact, if any, of these new risk factors on our businesses or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Some of our end-markets are cyclical, which may cause fluctuations in our sales and operating results. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in operating results due to business cycles. We sell our products principally to energy, chemical, waste water treatment and pharmaceutical markets. While we serve a variety of markets to avoid a dependency on any one, a significant downturn in any of these markets could cause a material adverse impact on our sales and operating results. The energy market, in particular, has historically been cyclical in nature as the worldwide demand for oil and gas fluctuates. When worldwide demand for these commodities is depressed, the demand for our products used in drilling and recovery applications is reduced. We have historically generated lower sales and profits in periods of declining demand for oil and gas. Accordingly, results of operations for any particular period are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations for any future period. Future downturns in demand for oil and gas could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results. Our businesses are adversely affected by economic downturns. In 2008, general worldwide economic conditions declined due to sequential effects of the subprime lending crises, general credit market crises, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. These conditions make it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause U.S and foreign businesses to slow spending on our products, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. We cannot predict the timing or duration of any economic slowdown or the timing or strength of a subsequent recovery, worldwide, or in the specific end markets we serve. If our markets significantly deteriorate due to these economic effects, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, our stock price could decrease if investors have concerns that our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively impacted by a worldwide economic downturn. In addition, our defined benefit employee benefit plans invest in fixed income and equity securities to fund employee obligations under those plans. Therefore, if the recent decline in the equity markets continues, our future funding requirements and expense could increase over the long-term. Approximately 61% of our sales are to customers outside the United States, and we are subject to special economic and political risks associated with international operations. Approximately 61% of our fiscal 2008 sales were to customers outside the U.S., and we maintain operations in 15 countries. Conducting business outside the U.S. is subject to risks, including currency exchange rate fluctuations; changes in regional, political or economic conditions; trade protection measures, such as tariffs or import or export restrictions; subsidies or increased access to capital for firms who are currently, or may emerge, as competitors in countries in which we have operations; partial or total expropriation; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and international sentiment towards the U.S. One or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations. We must comply with a variety of import and export laws and regulations, and the cost of compliance as well as the consequences of failure to properly comply with such laws could adversely affect our business. We are subject to a variety of laws regarding our international operations, including regulations issued by the U.S. Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security and various foreign governmental agencies. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international manufacturing operations and trading practices might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. Future regulations could limit the countries in which certain of our products may be manufactured or sold or could restrict our access to, and increase the cost of obtaining, products from foreign sources. In addition, actual or alleged violations of import-export laws could result in enforcement actions and financial penalties that could result in substantial costs. 4 Table of Contents Competition in our markets could cause our sales to decrease. We face significant competition from a variety of competitors in our markets. In some markets, our competitors have greater resources than we do. In addition, new competitors could enter our markets. Competitive pressures, including product quality, performance, price and service capabilities, and new technologies could adversely affect our competitive position, involving a loss of market share or decrease in prices, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our sales. The nature of our products creates the possibility of product liability lawsuits, which could harm our business. As a manufacturer of equipment and systems for use in various markets, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims. Although we maintain strict quality controls and procedures, we cannot be certain that our products will be completely free from defect. In addition, in certain cases, we rely on third-party manufacturers for components of our products. Although we have liability insurance coverage, we cannot be certain that this insurance coverage will continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost or will be adequate to cover any such liabilities. We generally seek to obtain contractual indemnification from our third-party suppliers, which is typically limited by its terms. In the event we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification, product liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Even if a product liability claim is without merit, it could harm our business. The results of operations could vary based on the availability and cost of our raw materials. The prices of our raw materials may increase. The costs of raw materials used by us are affected by fluctuations in the price of metals such as steel. Our ability to obtain parts and raw materials from our suppliers is uncertain. We are engaged in a continuous, company-wide effort to concentrate our purchases of parts and raw materials on fewer suppliers, and to obtain parts from low-cost countries where possible. As this effort progresses, we are exposed to an increased risk of disruptions to our supply chain, which could have a significant effect on our operating results. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. In particular, the calculation of share-based compensation expense under SFAS No. 123(R) required us to use valuation methodologies (which were not developed for use in valuing employee stock options) and a number of assumptions, estimates and conclusions regarding matters such as expected forfeitures, expected volatility of our share price, the expected dividend rate with respect to our common shares and the option exercise behavior of our employees. Furthermore, there are no means, under applicable accounting principles, to compare and adjust our expense if and when we learn of additional information that may affect the estimates that we previously made, with the exception of changes in expected forfeitures of share-based awards. Factors may arise over time that lead us to change our estimates and assumptions with respect to future share-based compensation arrangements, resulting in variability in our share-based compensation expense over time. Changes in forecasted share-based compensation expense could impact our financial results. Any impairment in the value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, would negatively affect our operating results and total capitalization. Our total assets reflect substantial intangible assets, primarily goodwill. The goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets we have acquired. We assess at least annually whether there has been an impairment in the value of our intangible assets. If future operating performance at one or more of our business units were to fall significantly below current levels, if competing or alternative technologies emerge or if market conditions for businesses acquired declines, we could incur, under current applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating earnings for goodwill impairment. Any 5 Table of Contents determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of unamortized intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations and total capitalization, the effect of which could be material. Other risks that may affect our business. • Customer order cancellations. • Implementation and maintenance of business computer systems at our facilities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 