ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS. Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Prospective investors should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties and all other information contained or referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before investing in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our Common stock could decline, and you could lose all of your investment. Risks related to our business Revenue from shareholder disclosure documents is subject to regulatory changes and volatility in demand, which could adversely affect our operating results. We anticipate that our printing and financial communications business segment will continue to contribute a material amount to our operating results going forward. The market for these services depends in part on the demand for investor documents, which is driven largely by capital markets activity and the requirements of the SEC and other regulatory bodies. Any rulemaking substantially affecting the content of documents to be filed and the method of their delivery could have an adverse effect on our business. Our compliance and reporting services revenue may be adversely affected as clients implement technologies enabling them to produce and disseminate documents on their own. The environment in which we compete is highly competitive, which creates adverse pricing pressures and may harm our business and operating results if we cannot compete effectively. Competition in our businesses is intense. The speed and accuracy with which we can meet client needs, the price of our services and the quality of our products and supporting services are factors in this competition. In financial communications, we compete directly with several other service providers having similar degrees of specialization. 8 Our marketing and business communications unit faces diverse competition from a variety of companies including commercial printers, in-house print operations, direct marketing agencies, facilities management companies, software providers and other consultants. In commercial printing services, we compete with general commercial printers, which are far more numerous than those in the financial printing market. These competitive pressures could reduce our revenue and earnings. We do not have long-term service agreements in the transactional services business, which may make it difficult for us to achieve steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis and lead to adverse movements in the price of our common stock. A majority of our revenue in our financial communications segment is derived from individual projects rather than long-term service agreements. Therefore, we cannot assure you that a client will engage us for further services once a project is completed or that a client will not unilaterally reduce the scope of, or terminate, existing projects. The absence of long-term service agreements makes it difficult to predict our future revenue. As a result, our financial results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the timing and scope of the engagement with our clients which could, in turn, lead to adverse movements in the price of our common stock or increased volatility in our stock price generally. If we are unable to retain our key employees and attract and retain other qualified personnel, our business could suffer. Our ability to grow and our future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued contributions of our key executives, managers and employees. In addition, many of our individual technical and sales personnel have extensive experience in our business operations and/or have valuable client relationships that would be difficult to replace. Their departure, if unexpected and unplanned for, could cause a disruption to our business. Our future success also depends in large part on our ability to identify, attract and retain other highly qualified managerial, technical, sales and marketing and customer service personnel. Competition for these individuals is intense, especially in the markets in which we operate. We may not succeed in identifying, attracting and retaining these personnel. Further, competitors and other entities have in the past recruited and may in the future attempt to recruit our employees, particularly our sales personn el. The loss of the services of our key personnel, the inability to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring qualified personnel, particularly technical and sales personnel, could make it difficult for us to manage our business and meet key objectives, such as the timely introduction of new technology-based products and services, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. If we fail to keep our clients’ information confidential or if we handle their information improperly, our business and reputation could be significantly and adversely affected. We manage private and confidential information and documentation related to our clients’ finances and transactions, often prior to public dissemination. The use of insider information is highly regulated in the United States and abroad, and violations of securities laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal penalties. If we fail to keep our clients’ proprietary information and documentation confidential, we may lose existing clients and potential new clients and may expose them to significant loss of revenue based on the premature release of confidential information. We may also become subject to civil claims by our clients or other third parties or criminal investigations by appropriate authorities. We must adapt to rapid changes in technology and client requirements to remain competitive. The market and demand for our products and services, to a varying extent, have been characterized by: · technological change; · frequent product and service introductions; and · evolving client requirements We believe that these trends will continue into the foreseeable future. Our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to: · enhance our existing products and services; · successfully develop new products and services that meet increasing client requirements; and · gain market acceptance. 9 To achieve these goals, we will need to continue to make substantial investments in sales and marketing. We may not: · have sufficient resources to make these investments; · be successful in developing product and service enhancements or new products and services on a timely basis, if at all; or · be able to market successfully these enhancements and new products once developed. Further, our products and services may be rendered obsolete or uncompetitive by new industry standards or changing technology. Fluctuations in the costs of paper, ink, energy, and other raw materials may adversely impact us. Our business is subject to risks associated with the cost and availability of paper, ink, other raw materials, and energy. Increases in the costs of these items may increase our costs, and we may not be able to pass these costs on to customers through higher prices. Increases in the costs of materials may adversely impact our customers’ demand for printing and related services. A severe paper or multi-market energy shortage could have an adverse effect upon many of our operations. Our business could be harmed if we do not successfully manage the integration of businesses that we acquire. As part of our business strategy, we have and may continue to acquire other businesses that complement our core capabilities. Our recent acquisitions are reflective of that strategy. The benefits of an acquisition may often take considerable time to develop and may not be realized. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: · the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses into our ongoing operations; · the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; · the difficulty in incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and technology; · unanticipated expenses and delays relating to completing acquired development projects and technology integration; · a potential increase in our indebtedness and contingent liabilities, which could restrict our ability to access additional capital when needed or to pursue other important elements of our business strategy; · the management of geographically remote units; · the establishment and maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; · the impairment of relationships with employees and clients as a result of any integration of new management personnel; · risks of entering markets or types of businesses in which we have either limited or no direct experience; · the potential loss of key employees or clients of the acquired businesses; and · potential unknown liabilities, such as liability for hazardous substances, or other difficulties associated with acquired businesses. We haves a history of losses, and we may never achieve profitability. We have incurred net losses and experienced negative cash flow for each quarter since inception. As of December 31, 2008, we have an accumulated deficit of $1.474 million. We expect to incur further losses in 2009 to further realize, execute and expand our business. Moreover, we may never achieve profitability and, even if we do, we may not be able to maintain profitability. Our recurring losses raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. As discussed in the notes to the financial statements, we have suffered recurring losses from operations, current liabilities exceed current assets, and cash flows from operations are negative, which all raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Management’s plans for funding future operations include the sale of debt and equity securities. Failure to raise additional funds under this plan would unfavorably impact our ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty, including our inability to realize the carrying value of assets. 10 Our business may be affected by factors outside of our control. Our ability to increase sales and to profitably deliver and sell our service offerings is subject to a number of risks, including changes to the regulatory filing and distribution of proxy materials, competitive risks such as the entrance of additional competitors into our market, pricing and competition and risks associated with the marketing of new services in order to remain competitive. If potential customers take a long time to evaluate the use of our services, we could incur additional selling expenses and require additional working capital. The acceptance of our services depends on a number of factors, including the nature and size of the potential customer base, the effectiveness of our system, and the extent of the commitment being made by the potential customer, and is difficult to predict. If potential customers take longer than we expect to decide whether to use our services, our selling expenses could increase, and we may need to raise additional capital sooner than we would otherwise need to. The seasonality of business makes it difficult to predict future results based on specific fiscal quarters. A greater portion of our printing, distribution and solicitation of proxy materials business will be processed during our second fiscal quarter. Therefore, the seasonality of our revenue makes it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific quarter and could affect an investor’s ability to compare our financial condition and results of operations on a quarter-by-quarter basis. To balance the seasonal activity of print, distribution and solicitation of proxy materials, we will continue to grow our other revenue streams since they are linked to predictable periodic activity that is cyclical in nature. Risks Related to Our common stock; Liquidity Risks The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which could lead to losses for stockholders. Stock of public companies can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or out of proportion to the operating performance of such companies. We expect our stock price to be similarly volatile. These broad market fluctuations may continue and could harm our stock price. Any negative change in the public’s perception of our prospects or companies in our market could also depress our stock price, regardless of our actual results. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock may include: · variations in operating results; · announcements of strategic alliances or significant agreements by the Company or by competitors; · recruitment or departure of key personnel; · litigation, legislation, regulation of all or part of our business; · changes in the estimates of operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analyst that elect to follow our common stock; and You may lose your investment in the shares. An investment in the shares involves a high degree of risk. An investment in the shares is suitable only for investors who can bear a loss of their entire investment. We have no intention to pay dividends on our common stock. For the near-term, we intend to retain any remaining future earnings, if any, to finance our operations and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends with respect to our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of preventing a change of control and could dilute the voting power of our common stock and reduce the market price of our common stock. Since March 20, 2008, our common stock has been listed on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board market under the symbol “ISDR”. There has been little or no trading of our common stock and no assurance can be given, when, if ever, an active trading market will develop or, if developed, that it will be sustained. As a result, investors may be unable to sell their shares of our common stock. Broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in “penny stocks” are regulated by certain rules adopted by the SEC. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00, subject to exceptions. The rules require that a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, deliver a 11 standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in connection with the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. In addition, the rules generally require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the liquidity of penny stocks. Our common stock is subject to the penny stock rules, and investors acquiring shares of our common stock may find it difficult to sell their shares of our common stock. 