ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Health and Beauty Care Business The high level of competition in Ascendia Brands’ industry - the health and beauty care business - could adversely affect our sales, operating results and profitability. The business of selling health and beauty products is highly competitive. Numerous manufacturers, distributors, marketers and retailers actively compete for consumers’ business, both in the United States and abroad. Ascendia Brands’ principal competitors include Health Tech, Johnson & Johnson, Kimberly Clark, Pfizer, Procter & Gamble, The Village Company, and Unilever. Nearly all of these competitors are larger and have substantially greater resources than Ascendia Brands, and may therefore have the ability to spend more aggressively on advertising and marketing and to respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions than we do. This could adversely affect our sales, operating results and profitability. Ascendia Brands competes on the basis of numerous factors, including brand recognition, product quality, performance, price and product availability at retail stores. Merchandising and packaging, the timing of new product introductions and line extensions also have a significant impact on customers’ buying decisions and, as a result, on our sales. The structure and quality of our sales force and broker network, as well as consumption of Ascendia Brands’ products, affect in-store position, shelf display space and inventory levels in retail outlets. If Ascendia Brands is not able to maintain or improve the inventory levels and/or shelf placement of its products in retail stores, our sales and operating results will be adversely affected. Ascendia Brands’ markets also are highly sensitive to the introduction of new products, which may rapidly capture a significant share of the market. An increase in the amount of product introductions by our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our sales, operating results and profitability. In addition, competitors may attempt to gain market share by offering products at or below the prices typically offered by Ascendia Brands. Competitive pricing may require Ascendia Brands to reduce prices and may result in lost sales and/or reductions in our margins. Ascendia Brands depends on a limited number of customers for a large portion of its gross sales and the loss of one or more of these customers could materially reduce our gross sales and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For the year ended February 28, 2006, Ascendia Brands’ top five customers accounted for approximately 47 percent of net sales, with one customer (Wal-Mart) accounting for 32 percent and a second (Dollar Tree) for 7 percent. We expect that for the year ending February 28, 2007 and future periods, Ascendia Brands’ top five customers, including Wal-Mart and Dollar Tree, will, in the aggregate, continue to account for a significant portion of our gross sales. The loss of one or more of Ascendia Brands’ top customers, any significant decrease in sales to these customers or any significant decrease in retail display space in any of these customers’ stores, could reduce Ascendia Brands’ gross sales and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our sales, operating results and profitability. - 10 - In addition, Ascendia Brands’ business is based primarily upon individual sales orders, and we typically do not enter into long-term contracts. Our customers could cease buying our products at any time and for any reason. The fact that we typically do not have long-term contracts means that we generally have no recourse in the event a customer ceases purchasing our products or reduce the level of purchases If a significant number of our customers cease purchasing our products, or materially reduce the volume or value of those purchases, this could have a material adverse effect on our sales, operating results and profitability. Ascendia Brands and Lander Canada manufacture a significant quantity of the products they sell at their own manufacturing facilities. Any disruption in production could result in lost sales, and could have a material adverse effect on our customer relationships, financial condition and results of operations. We manufacture most of our Lander brand health and beauty care products, plus a portion of the brands acquired from Playtex, at our 163,000 square foot manufacturing facility in Binghamton, New York and our 98,000 square foot plant in Scarborough, Ontario, Canada. Although we have the capability to manufacture most products (including shampoos, bubble bath, powders and topical analgesics) at either facility, alcohol-based products (such as mouthwash) and acetone-based products (such as nail polish remover) can be manufactured only at the Ontario location. A permanent or temporary unplanned shutdown of either of our plants, resulting from equipment malfunction, accident, fire, sabotage, strike or lockout, act of God or other factors, could substantially reduce our output of finished products. If output from one facility were to be curtailed, there is no assurance that we could absorb any lost production in our other manufacturing facility or that we could arrange to outsource production of the affected products in sufficient time to maintain scheduled deliveries. In the event of a protracted disruption in our own manufacturing operations, we would become more dependent on contract manufacturers and there is no assurance that we could obtain finished products from such contract manufacturers in sufficient quantities or at prices comparable to our own manufacturing costs. Our inability to do so could result in decreased sales and loss of market share, and could have a material adverse effect on our customer relationships, operating results and profitability. Ascendia Brands and Lander Canada depend on third parties to provide raw materials for the products they manufacture. Disruption in the supply of raw materials, or increases in raw material costs, could adversely affect sales and our profitability. Our ability to maintain production of our health and beauty care products at our own facilities depends upon access to raw materials, all of which we purchase from unrelated vendors. These raw materials include oil-based derivatives (such as mineral oil, petrolatum, surfactants and other specialty chemicals), plastic resin products (such as bottles and caps) and paper products (such as boxes, labels and packaging). If our current vendors become unable or unwilling to supply us with raw materials in a timely manner or at acceptable prices, there is no assurance that we could identify and qualify substitute vendors in sufficient time to prevent a disruption in production of some or all of the products we manufacture, or that substitute vendors would be able or willing to supply raw materials in the quantities and at the prices required to maintain normal operations. In addition, many of the raw materials we use, such as petroleum derivatives and paper products, are commodities that may be subject to significant price fluctuation, both in the short- and long-term. There is no assurance that we could pass through to our customers, in the form of higher prices, any resulting increase in our manufacturing costs. As a volume producer of value and extreme value products, we may be more susceptible than other producers to margin erosion resulting from increases in manufacturing costs. Our inability to secure sufficient quantities of raw materials at prices consistent with our current costs and sales price structure could therefore negatively impact inventory levels, customer relationships, sales and market share, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and profitability. - 11 - In addition, if our raw material suppliers fail to maintain adequate controls over specifications and quality, we may be unable to maintain the quality of our finished products. Reliance on raw materials of inferior quality could diminish the value of our brand names and the level of customer satisfaction. This could similarly lead to reduced sales and loss of market share and could thereby negatively affect our operating results and profitability. Ascendia Brands and Lander Canada rely on unrelated carriers for the shipment of raw materials and finished products. Any disruption in, or unavailability of, transportation, could adversely affect production and distribution of our products. Ascendia Brands and Lander Canada receive raw materials at their manufacturing facilities by truck, and distribute finished products to warehouses and customer distribution facilities by truck and/or rail. We rely on unrelated transportation companies for these services, which we typically contract on a short-term or ad hoc basis. The availability and cost of transportation services may be affected by many factors, including, without limitation, (i) market conditions of supply and demand, (ii) inclement weather, flood, hurricanes and the like, (iii) fuel shortages and/or increases in fuel costs, and (iv) strikes, lockouts or other industrial action. Although we seek to manage our raw materials and finished goods inventories prudently, any disruption in transportation services may interfere with normal plant operations, and/or could impede or prevent the delivery of finished products to our warehouses and to our customers’ facilities. Any sustained increase in transportation rates would increase our manufacturing and/or distribution costs, and there is no assurance that we would be able to pass these cost increases through to our customers in the form of higher prices. These factors could result in lost sales and market share and could adversely affect our operating results and profitability. Disruption in our distribution centers may prevent us from meeting customer demand. We manage our product distribution in the continental United States and Canada through distribution centers in California, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Toronto, Canada. A serious disruption in the operation of any of these distribution centers, caused by a flood, fire or other factors, could damage or destroy inventory and could materially impair our ability to distribute products to our customers in a timely manner or at a reasonable cost. We could incur significantly higher costs and experience longer delivery lead times during the time it would take to reopen or replace a distribution center. This in turn could have a material adverse effect on our sales, operating results and profitability. Ascendia Brands makes use of contract manufacturers to manufacture significant quantities of the finished products we sell. We rely on contract manufacturers to manufacture certain of the finished products sold by our health and beauty care division, and the use of contract manufacturers has increased significantly as a result of Ascendia Brands’ acquisition of the former Playtex brands in November, 2005. Any delay in delivery by one or more of these contract manufacturers, or the breach or termination of a manufacturing contract, could adversely affect our inventory levels, our ability to meet scheduled deliveries and to accept new orders. Any or all of these factors could also negatively affect our market share, customer relationships, operating results and profitability. Efforts to acquire other companies, brands or product lines may divert our managerial resources from our day-to-day operations, and if we complete an acquisition we may incur or assume additional liabilities or experience integration problems. - 12 - Our growth strategy is bifurcated, driven both by acquiring other companies, brands or product lines that management believes complement our existing health and beauty care business, and through organic growth of our existing brands. At any given time, we may be engaged in discussions with respect to possible acquisitions or other business combinations that are intended to enhance our product portfolio, enable us to realize cost savings and further diversify our category, customer and channel focus. Our ability successfully to grow through acquisition depends on our ability to identify, acquire and integrate suitable acquisition targets and to obtain any necessary financing. These efforts could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our day-to-day business operations. If we complete acquisitions, we may also experience: • difficulties or delays in integrating any acquired companies, personnel and/or products into our existing business; • delays in realizing the benefits of the acquired company or products; • diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • higher than anticipated integration costs; • difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired business who may be necessary to manage those businesses most efficiently; • difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout all acquired companies; and/or • adverse customer reaction to the business combination. In addition, an acquisition could materially impair our operating results by causing us to incur debt, amortize acquisition expenses and/or depreciate acquired assets. Regulatory matters governing our industry could have a significant negative effect on our sales and operating costs. In both our U.S. and foreign markets, we are subject to extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions and similar constraints affecting our health and beauty care business. Such laws, regulations and other constraints may exist at the federal, state or local levels in the United States and at analogous levels of government in foreign jurisdictions. In particular, the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, importation, sale and storage of the products sold by our health and beauty care division are subject to regulation by various federal agencies, including the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Environmental Protection Agency, and by various agencies of the states, localities and foreign countries in which our products are manufactured, distributed and sold. In addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or require discontinuation of product. If we fail to comply with federal, state or foreign regulations, we could be required to: • pay fines and/or penalties; • suspend manufacturing operations; • change product formulations; • suspend the sale of products with non-complying specifications; • initiate product recalls; or • change product labeling, packaging, or take other corrective action. - 13 - Any of these actions could materially and adversely affect our financial results. In addition, any failure to comply with FTC or state regulations, or with regulations in foreign markets that cover our product claims and advertising, including direct claims and advertising by us, may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise materially and adversely affect the distribution and sale of our products. Our business depends upon the protection of our intellectual property rights.. The market for our health and beauty care products depends to a significant extent upon the goodwill associated with our trademarks and tradenames. The trademarks and tradenames on our products are how we convey that the products Ascendia Brands sells are “value brand name” products, and we believe consumers ascribe value to our brands. Ascendia Brands and its affiliates own the material trademark and tradename rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and sale of our products. This ownership is what prevents competitors or new entrants to the market from using our valuable brand names. Therefore, trademark and tradename protection is critical to our business. Although most of our material trademarks are registered in the United States and in applicable foreign countries, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or tradename protection. If we were to lose the exclusive right to use any of our brand names in the United States or any other market in which we sell our products, our sales and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We could also incur substantial costs to defend legal actions relating to the use of our intellectual property, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights and may thereby dilute the value of brands in the marketplace. If the value of our brands becomes diluted, or if our competitors are able to introduce brands that cause confusion with our brands in the marketplace, it could adversely affect the value that our customers associate with our brands, and thereby negatively impact our sales. Any such infringement of our intellectual property rights would also likely result in a commitment of our time and resources to protect these rights through litigation or otherwise. In addition, third parties may assert claims against our intellectual property rights and we may not be able successfully to resolve these claims. Wireless Applications Development Business The Cenuco Wireless business faces extensive competition. Our wireless applications development business, conducted under the Cenuco name has only recently introduced its full line of wireless video monitoring servers. There can be no assurance that the market will accept the wireless products currently offered. The industries in which the Cenuco Wireless division operates are characterized by intense competition. We face competition in all aspects of our business and we compete directly with numerous other firms, a significant number of which may offer their customers a broader range of products and services, have substantially greater financial, personnel, marketing, research and other resources, have greater operating efficiencies and have established reputations relating to product offerings and customer service. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete in this business successfully. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights our ability to compete effectively in the market for our products could be negatively impacted. We regard our patents, copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property as important to our success in wireless applications development. We rely on patent, trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, consultants and advisors to protect our proprietary rights; however, the steps we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate and legal means may afford only limited protection. In addition, traditional legal protections may not be applicable in the Internet or wireless context, and the ownership of proprietary rights in our Cenuco Wireless technology may be subject to uncertainty. Our failure or inability to protect our proprietary rights could materially harm our business and competitive position. - 14 - We have filed for one Utility patent, “Wireless Security Audio-Video Monitoring,” which was accepted by the United States Patent Office in June, 2004, as Patent Pending #10/846426. We have also filed for one Provisional Patent, which the Company expects to covert to a full Utility Patent filing later this year. From time to time, we may decide to file additional patent applications relating to aspects of our proprietary Cenuco Wireless technology. Other parties may independently develop similar or competing technology or “design around” any patents that may be issued to us. There is no assurance that any of the patent applications we file will be approved, or that any issued patents will adequately protect our intellectual property. In addition, there is no assurance that third parties will not challenge the validity of our patents, or assert that technology developed and sold by Cenuco Wireless infringes other patents. Any such claims, even if lacking in merit, could require us to expend considerable resources in defending them and adversely affect the results of our operations. Our Business Generally Both operating divisions depend on our key personnel and the loss of the services of executive officers or other key employees could harm our business and results of operations. Our success in the health and beauty care and wireless applications development business sectors depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management and (in the case of Cenuco Wireless) of the programmers and technicians responsible for technology development. These employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. We may not be able to retain existing key personnel or identify, hire and integrate new personnel. The Company must comply with the listing provisions of the American Stock Exchange. The Company must maintain sufficient net worth to continue its listing on The American Stock Exchange. If the Company continues to experience losses, additional equity capital will be required to maintain sufficient net worth. Future Impairments to Goodwill and other non amortizable intangible assets. The Company has approximately $31.0 million of goodwill and other non amortizable intangible assets. The testing for impairment in the future may result in additional write-offs. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 