ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to risks relating to our dependence on the retail economy. Our business depends to a significant degree on the strength of the retail economy in North America. Changes in economic conditions can affect consumer demand, which is one of the principal drivers of the retail economy. If the state of the economy worsens, or if consumer demand declines for any other reason, we may suffer declines in sales volumes, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In order to maintain sales, we may have to reduce prices, and this could result in lower profitability. Competitive forces could adversely affect our sales, operating results and profitability. The business of manufacturing and selling health and beauty care products is highly competitive. Numerous manufacturers, distributors, marketers and retailers actively compete for consumers’ business, both in the United States and abroad. Our principal competitors include Health Tech, Johnson & Johnson, Kimberly Clark, Procter & Gamble, The Village Company and Unilever. Nearly all of these competitors are larger and have substantially greater resources than Ascendia. They may therefore be able to spend more on advertising and marketing and respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions than we can. This could adversely affect our competitive position in the industry. In addition, competitors may attempt to gain market share by offering products at or below the prices typically offered by us. Competitive pricing may require us to reduce prices and may result in lost sales and/or reductions in our margins. We compete on the basis of numerous factors, including brand recognition, product quality, performance, price and product availability at retail stores. Merchandising, packaging and the timing of new product introductions also have a significant impact on customers’ buying decisions and, as a result, on our sales. These factors in turn depend on the structure and quality of our marketing team, sales force and broker network. Customers’ response to our products affect the in-store position, shelf display space and inventory levels in retail outlets. If we are not able to maintain or improve the inventory levels and/or shelf placement of our products in retail stores, our sales and operating results will be adversely affected. Our markets also are highly sensitive to the introduction of new products, which may rapidly capture a significant share of the market. An increase in product introductions by our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our sales, operating results and profitability. - 7 - We depend on a limited number of large customers for a large portion of our sales. The loss of one or more of these key customers could materially reduce our sales and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and profitability. Our principal customers are large dominant mass and chain drug retailers. These customers have strong negotiating power with their suppliers, among whom they may seek to foster competition. They may also choose to import products from foreign suppliers, or to sell “private label” or “store brand” products instead of or in addition to branded products. For the year ended February 28, 2007, our top five customers accounted for approximately 50 percent of net sales. Our largest customer, Wal-Mart, accounted for 36 percent of net sales, and our second largest customer, Dollar Tree, accounted for 5 percent. We expect that for the year ending February 28, 2008, and in future periods, our top five customers, including Wal-Mart and Dollar Tree, will, in the aggregate, continue to account for a significant portion of our sales. The loss of one or more of these key customers, any significant decrease in sales to them or any significant decrease in retail display space in any of these customers’ stores, could reduce our sales and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and profitability. In addition, our business is based primarily upon individual sales orders and our customers typically do not commit to long-term purchase contracts. Our customers could therefore cease buying our products at any time and for any reason. The fact that we typically do not have long-term contracts means that we generally have no recourse in the event a customer ceases purchasing our products or reduces the level of purchases. If a number of our customers representing significant revenues cease purchasing our products, or materially reduce the volume or value of those purchases, this could have a material adverse effect on our sales, operating results and profitability. To compete successfully, we must continually develop new products that appeal to consumers. Our long-term success depends upon our ability to continually develop and launch new brands and products that appeal to consumers. We face intense competition from larger and more established manufacturers and distributors that have more resources to dedicate to innovation and advertising.With national brands assuming a more prominent place in our product portfolio, we are increasing our focus on innovation and marketing. However, there is no assurance that this investment will be successful in maintaining our competitive position. We manufacture a significant quantity of the products we sell. Any disruption in production could result in lost sales, and could have a material adverse effect on our customer relationships, operating results and profitability. We manufacture most of our branded and private label beauty care products at our 163,000 square foot manufacturing facility in Binghamton, New York and our 98,000 square foot manufacturing facility in Scarborough, Ontario, Canada. Beginning in late 2007, we also intend to begin manufacturing the brands recently acquired from Coty in these facilities. We have the capability to manufacture most products (including shampoos, bubble bath, powders and topical analgesics) at either facility. However, we can currently manufacture alcohol-based products (such as mouthwash) and acetone-based products (such as nail polish remover) only at our Ontario location. A permanent or temporary unplanned shutdown of either of our plants, resulting from equipment malfunction, accident, fire, sabotage, strike or lockout, act of God or other factors, could substantially reduce our output of finished products. If output from one facility were to be curtailed, there is no assurance that we could absorb any lost production in our other manufacturing facility or that we could arrange to outsource production of the affected products in sufficient time to maintain scheduled deliveries. In the event of a protracted disruption in our own manufacturing operations, we would become more dependent on contract manufacturers and there is no assurance that we could obtain finished products from these manufacturers in sufficient quantities of appropriate quality or at prices comparable to our own manufacturing costs. Our inability to do so could result in decreased sales and loss of market share, and could have a material adverse effect on our customer relationships, operating results and profitability. We depend on third parties to provide raw materials for the products we manufacture. Disruption in the supply of raw materials, or increases in raw material costs, could adversely affect sales and/or our profitability. Our ability to manufacture products at our own facilities depends upon access to raw materials, all of which we purchase from unrelated vendors. These raw materials include oil-based derivatives (such as mineral oil, petrolatum, surfactants and other specialty chemicals), plastic resin products (such as bottles and caps) and paper products (such - 8 - as boxes, labels and packaging). If our current vendors become unable or unwilling to supply us with raw materials in a timely manner or at acceptable prices, there is no assurance that we could identify and qualify substitute vendors in sufficient time to prevent a disruption in production of some or all of the products we manufacture, or that substitute vendors would be able or willing to supply raw materials in the quantities and at the prices required to maintain normal operations. In addition, many of the raw materials we use, such as petroleum derivatives and paper products, are commodities that may be subject to significant price fluctuation, both in the short- and long-term. There is no assurance that we could pass through to our customers, in the form of higher prices, any resulting increase in our manufacturing costs arising from increased raw material costs or otherwise. As a volume producer of value and extreme value products, we may be more susceptible than other producers to margin erosion resulting from increases in manufacturing costs. Our inability to secure sufficient quantities of raw materials at prices consistent with our current cost structure could therefore negatively impact inventory levels, customer relationships, sales and market share, and thus could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and profitability. In addition, if our raw material suppliers fail to maintain adequate controls over specifications and quality, we may be unable to maintain the quality of our finished products. Reliance on raw materials of inferior quality could diminish the value of our brand names and the level of customer satisfaction. This could similarly lead to reduced sales and loss of market share and could thereby negatively affect our operating results and profitability. We rely on unrelated carriers for the shipment of raw materials and finished products. Any disruption in, or unavailability of, transportation could adversely affect production and distribution of our products. We receive raw materials at our manufacturing facilities by truck, and distribute finished products to warehouses and customer distribution facilities by truck and/or rail. We rely on unrelated transportation companies for these services, which we typically contract on a short-term or ad hoc basis. The availability and cost of transportation services may be affected by many factors outside our control, including, without limitation, (i) market conditions of supply and demand, (ii) inclement weather, floods, hurricanes and other natural disasters, (iii) fuel shortages and/or increases in fuel costs, and (iv) strikes, lockouts or other industrial action. Although we seek to manage our raw materials and finished goods inventories prudently, any disruption in transportation services may interfere with normal plant operations, and/or impede or prevent the delivery of finished products to our warehouses and to our customers’ facilities. Any sustained increase in transportation rates would increase our manufacturing and/or distribution costs, and there is no assurance that we would be able to pass these cost increases through to our customers in the form of higher prices. These factors could result in lost sales and market share and could adversely affect our operating results and profitability. Disruption in our distribution centers may prevent us distributing products to customers in a timely manner. We manage our product distribution in North America through distribution centers in California, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Toronto and Puerto Rico. We seek to maintain sufficient inventory throughout our distribution system so that we can respond to customer orders in a timely manner. However, a serious disruption in the operation of any of these distribution centers caused by a flood, fire or other factors, could damage or destroy inventory and could materially impair our ability to distribute products to our customers in a timely manner or at a reasonable cost. We could incur significantly higher costs and experience longer delivery lead times during the time it would take to reopen or replace a distribution center. This in turn could have a material adverse effect on our sales, operating results and profitability. We make use of contract manufacturers to manufacture certain of the finished products we sell. We rely on contract manufacturers to manufacture certain of our finished products and the use of contract manufacturers has increased significantly as a result of our acquisition of the former Playtex brands in November 2005. In addition, for an interim period, we will continue to rely on Coty to manufacture certain of the products acquired in our February 2007 acquisition. Any delay in delivery by one or more of these contract manufacturers, or the breach or termination of a manufacturing contract, could adversely affect our inventory levels and our ability to meet scheduled deliveries and accept new orders. Any or all of these factors could also negatively affect our market share, customer relationships, operating results and profitability. - 9 - Efforts to acquire other companies, brands or product lines may divert our managerial resources from our day-to-day operations, and if we complete an acquisition we may incur or assume additional liabilities or experience integration problems. Our growth strategy is bifurcated. We seek to increase our business both through organic growth of our existing brands, and also by acquiring other companies, brands or product lines that management believes complement our existing health and beauty care business. At any given time, we may be engaged in discussions with respect to possible acquisitions or other business combinations that are intended to enhance our product portfolio, enable us to realize cost savings and further diversify our category, customer and channel focus.We may also be involved in discussion with our lenders regarding the financing of such acquisitions. Our ability to grow successfully through acquisition depends on our ability to identify, acquire and integrate suitable acquisition targets and to obtain any necessary financing. These efforts could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our day-to-day business operations. If we complete acquisitions, we may also experience: difficulties or delays in integrating any acquired companies, personnel, brands and/or products into our existing business; delays in realizing the financial or other benefits of the acquisition; temporary cost increases in connection with transition services, while we integrate ordering, distribution, logistics, invoicing and other functions; diversion of our management’s time and attention from day-to-day business operations; higher than anticipated integration costs; difficulty, delays or inability to discover, assess and resolve inconsistencies in processes, customer agreements and the like; difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and/or adverse customer reaction to the acquisition. In addition, an acquisition could materially impair our operating results by causing us to incur debt, amortize acquisition expenses and/or depreciate acquired assets. Regulatory matters governing our industry could have a significant negative effect on our sales and operating costs. In both our U.S. and foreign markets, we are subject to extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions and similar constraints affecting our health and beauty care business. Such laws, regulations and other constraints may exist at the federal, state or local levels in the United States and at analogous levels of government in foreign jurisdictions. The adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or require discontinuation of the sale or export of one or more of our products. In the United States, the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, importation, sale and storage of our products are subject to regulation by various federal agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Environmental Protection Agency, and by various state agencies. If we fail to comply with federal, state or foreign regulations, we could be required to: pay fines and/or penalties; suspend manufacturing operations; change product formulations; suspend the sale of products with non-complying specifications; initiate product recalls; or change product labeling, packaging, or take other corrective action. - 10 - Any of these actions could materially and adversely affect our financial results. In addition, any failure to comply with FTC or state regulations, or with regulations in foreign markets that cover our product claims and advertising, including direct claims and advertising by us, may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise materially and adversely affect the distribution and sale of our products. We depend upon our key personnel and the loss of their services could harm our business. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key employees. These employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. We carry “key man” insurance for our senior management team; however, if we lose the services of any of these key employees, we may not be able to identify, hire and integrate replacements, or may not be able to do so within a sufficiently short period of time to prevent harm to our business. We depend upon the protection of our intellectual property rights. The market for our health and beauty care products depends to a significant extent upon the goodwill associated with our trademarks and trade names. Ascendia Brands and its affiliates own (or, in the case of the Calgon brand, license) the material trademarks and trade name rights used to market, package and sell our products. We believe our customers ascribe value to our trade names, trademarks and trade dress in general.It is the basis upon which consumers can readily differentiate our products from those of our competitors. The legal protection afforded our trade names, trademarks and trade dress is what prevents competitors or new market entrants exploiting for their benefit the goodwill associated with our products and from marketing and selling products that compete deceptively with ours. Trademark and trade name protection is therefore critical to our business. Although most of our material trademarks are registered in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we sell our products, these registrations may be subject to challenge and there is no assurance that we will be able to defend our trademarks or trade names successfully. If we were to lose the exclusive right to use any of our brand names in the United States or any other market in which we sell our products, our sales and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We could also incur substantial costs to defend legal actions relating to the use of our intellectual property, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights and may thereby dilute the value of brands in the marketplace. If the value of our brands becomes diluted, or if our competitors are able to introduce brands that cause confusion with our brands in the marketplace, it could adversely affect the value that our customers associate with our brands, and thereby negatively impact our sales. Any such infringement of our intellectual property rights would also likely result in a commitment of our time and resources to protect these rights through litigation or otherwise. In addition, third parties may assert claims against our intellectual property rights and we may not be able successfully to resolve these claims. Impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial results. Future events may occur that would adversely affect the value of the Company’s assets and require impairment charges to be reflected in the statement of operations. Such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to changes in economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on the Company’s customer base, or a material adverse change in relationships with significant customers. The conversion of our convertible notes would have a significantly dilutive effect on our common stock. In December 2006, we refinanced our existing $91.0 million senior convertible secured notes held by Prencen Lending LLC. The notes are convertible in whole or in part into the Company’s common stock at the election of the holder, subject to certain conditions described in the notes. These conditions include the requirement that, immediately following such conversion, the holder and its affiliates collectively may not own more than 9.99% of the Company’s common stock. As part of the December 2006 refinancing, the conversion price for the notes was reduced from $1.75 to $0.42. Subsequently, in connection with the acquisition of the Calgon and the healing garden brands from Coty, the Company permanently retired $5.0 million in principal amount of the notes. The Company may not redeem the notes for a period of eight years. - 11 - The conversion price of $0.42 per share is substantially lower than the current trading price of our common stock and the conversion of the notes in full would result in the issuance of an additional 204,761,905 shares of common stock, representing roughly 83 percent of the aggregate number of shares outstanding on a post-conversion basis. Therefore, conversion of all or a material amount of the notes would significantly dilute our common stock and could result in a substantial reduction in trading price. The terms of the conversion option to our convertible notes could impair our ability to raise equity capital. The existence of the convertible notes, as described in the previous risk factor, and/or the increase in the number of shares outstanding following a complete or partial conversion could materially impair our ability to raise additional equity capital or refinance the notes. This, in turn, could adversely affect our ability to finance additional acquisitions, reduce our leverage ratio, implement our business plan and comply or regain compliance with the shareholders equity levels required under the American Stock Exchange continued listing standards, as described below. We must comply with the continued listing requirements of the American Stock Exchange. Our common stock is listed on the American Stock Exchange (the “Exchange”). A failure to maintain this listing could result in a default under our financing agreements with the consequences described below and could impair our ability to raise capital in the public markets. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business plan and thereby adversely affect our operating results and profitability. The Exchange’s regulations contain provisions specifying the minimum amount of shareholders’ equity that a company generally must have in order to maintain its listing. We have suffered significant losses in recent years. As of February 28, 2007, our shareholders’ equity was substantially below the $6.0 million level required by the Exchange. However, the Exchange generally does not initiate de-listing procedures for a company that fails to maintain the specified shareholders’ equity, if the company has (1) a total market capitalization of at least $50,000,000 or total assets and revenue of $50,000,000 each in its last fiscal year, or in two of its last three fiscal years; and (2) at least 1,100,000 shares publicly held, a market value of publicly held shares of at least $15,000,000 and 400 round lot shareholders. We believe we currently satisfy these requirements. In addition, we have secured undertakings from one of our lenders to convert to equity, subject to the payment of certain fees by the Company, a portion of its outstanding debt into equity, if necessary to maintain our listing. However, there is no assurance that we will continue to meet such additional criteria, neither is there an assurance that the Exchange will not initiate de-listing procedures even if such criteria are met. There is also no assurance that our lenders will agree to convert sufficient debt to enable us to satisfy the applicable listing standards.If they do not, we would be required to raise additional capital in order to maintain our listing with the Exchange and there can be no assurance that such additional capital could be obtained. The failure to comply with financial and other covenants could cause a default under our financing agreements. In connection with the acquisition of the Calgon and the healing garden brands, we entered into a $160 million senior secured loan facility and re-structured our $86 million convertible term loan. These financing agreements contain various financial and other covenants, including, in the case of our convertible debt facility, an obligation to file and maintain in effect a registration statement. Our ability to continue to comply with these covenants, and in particular the financial covenants, depends, among other things, upon our ability to execute our business model, meet targets for sales and profitability, realize the cost savings and synergies anticipated as a result of the acquisition, make certain filings with the Securities & Exchange Commission by specified dates and generally operate our business according to budget. The failure to comply with our covenants may, subject to applicable notice and cure provisions contained in our financing agreements, give rise to an event of default. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders may accelerate the loans, declare the commitments thereunder to be terminated, seize collateral, raise interest rates and exercise any other remedies available to secured creditors. If the loans are accelerated, default interest rates become effective or the commitments terminated, we would face substantial liquidity problems and, unless we were able to reach agreement with our lenders or refinance the outstanding obligations, we may be required to cease operations. Even if we are able to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, the economic terms may not be favorable to us. All of the foregoing could have serious consequences for our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. - 12 - If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls, we may be required to restate financial statements and incur legal liability. In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended February 28, 2006, we noted the existence of a material weakness relating to our failure to maintain adequate internal controls in the application of purchase accounting for acquisitions completed during the 2006 fiscal year, and in the subsequent evaluation of goodwill for impairment, which occurred in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. These control deficiencies resulted in the restatement of our second and third quarter financial statements, to reflect a reallocation of purchase price accounting, and a resulting increase in intangible amortization expense. In addition, we recently filed restated financial statements for the first through fourth fiscal quarters of our fiscal year ended February 28, 2006 and the first through the third fiscal quarters of the fiscal year ended February 28, 2007. These restatements: adjust the valuation methodology used in the May 2005 Merger and make related corresponding revisions to the impairment charge recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006; reclassify the amortization of certain software costs of our wireless applications development subsidiary from Sales, General and Administrative expense to Cost of Goods Sold; adjust earnings per share computations to reflect a deemed dividend to the holders of the Company’s Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock (convertible into shares of common stock) resulting from the application of certain anti-dilution provisions; and provide expanded disclosure regarding the goodwill impairment analysis performed in the fourth quarter of our 2006 fiscal year and critical accounting policies. In addition to the above restatements, net loss per Series A Preferred share for periods prior to the reverse acquisition of Cenuco, Inc. on May 20, 2005 is presented to retrospectively reflect the number of equivalent shares received by Hermes Acquisition Co I LLC unitholders in connection with the reverse acquisition. The restated financial statements for the second and third quarters for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2007 also include corrections to the value computed for the compound derivative liability as of August 26, 2006 and November 25, 2006. Management has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at a reasonable level as of February 28, 2007. As reported in Item 9A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended February 28, 2006, we determined that material weaknesses existed in our internal controls over financial reporting. We attributed the weaknesses to a lack of sufficient and appropriate internal expertise to resolve complex technical accounting issues. During fiscal 2007, and into the first half of fiscal 2008, we have added to our in-house accounting staff. While the impact of these additions has been positive, there has not been adequate time for us to conclude that the material weaknesses have been fully remediated. We will continue to monitor the effectiveness of these control enhancements during fiscal 2008 prior to reaching a conclusion on full remediation. The continued effectiveness of these remedial measures depends upon our ability to maintain internal resources appropriate to the scope and nature of our business operations, capital structure and acquisition activities. Should we be unable to retain, develop or replace such resources, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain effective internal controls. A failure to do so could give rise to a risk of future restatement and potential legal liability. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 