Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our future results may be affected by a number of factors over which we have little or no control. The following issues, uncertainties, and risks, among others, should be considered in evaluating our business and outlook. Also, note that additional risks not currently identified or known to us could also negatively impact our business or financial results. Risks Relating to the Spin-off Since the Spin-off of Patriot , FRP has shared three executives with Patriot so those executives will not devote their full time and attention to the Company. Under the terms of the Transition Services Agreement between FRP and Patriot, Patriot provides the services of three of its executive officers to FRP. Thompson S. Baker II, Chief Executive Officer, John D. Milton, Jr., Chief Financial Officer and John D. Klopfenstein, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer, serve in the same capacities with FRP under the Transition Services Agreement. These executives spend approximately 50% of their time working for FRP pursuant to the terms of the Transition Services Agreement and both companies share in 50% of the costs (including overhead). FRP could be adversely impacted by lack of the full-time focus of these executives during the term of the Transition Services Agreement. In addition, these executives may face conflicts of interest, or the appearance thereof, if there is a dispute under the agreements between Patriot and FRP or a future business transaction. 4 There may be potential conflicts of interest between FRP and Patriot due to the Spin-off. FRP has common management with Patriot, which could cause a conflict of interest for the shared executives or the Company. Currently, three of our executive officers serve as executive officers of both FRP and Patriot. FRP’s Chief Executive Officer, Thompson S. Baker II, also serves as a director and the Chief Executive Officer and President of Patriot. FRP's executive officers and board members will have fiduciary duties to our shareholders. Likewise, any such persons who serve in similar capacities at Patriot will have fiduciary duties to Patriot’s shareholders. Therefore, such persons may have conflicts of interest or the appearance of conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting both companies. For example, there will be a potential conflict of interest if FRP and Patriot consider acquisitions or other business opportunities that may be suitable for both companies. Moreover, most of Patriot's directors and officers will continue to own FRP common stock and options to purchase FRP common stock, which they acquired prior to the Spin-off or will acquire in the future in connection with their employment with FRP. These ownership interests could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when these individuals are faced with decisions that could have different implications for FRP and Patriot. From time to time, FRP may enter into transactions with Patriot or its subsidiaries or other affiliates. Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between employees of the companies involved, there can be no assurance that the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries or affiliates as would be the case where the parties are completely at arm’s length. We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the Spin-off. We may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from the Spin-off, or such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. The Spin-off is expected to provide the following benefits to the Company: (i) allow FRP to focus on its own strategic objectives and opportunities, (ii) enable FRP to allocate resources and deploy capital in a manner consistent with its own priorities, (iii) allow FRP to use its separate publicly traded stock as acquisition currency, (iv) allow FRP to more effectively utilize equity compensation awards by directly tying the value of equity compensation awards to the performance of the real estate business, and (v) allow investors, both current and prospective, to value FRP based on its financial characteristics and make investment decisions based on those characteristics. If we fail to achieve some or all of the benefits expected to result from the Spin-off, or if such benefits are delayed, the business, financial condition and results of our operations could be adversely affected and the value of our stock could be impacted. FRP is subject to restrictions under a Tax Matters Agreement with Patriot, and a violation of the tax sharing agreement may result in tax liability to FRP and its shareholders. In connection with the Spin-off, we entered into a Tax Matters Agreement with Patriot to preserve the tax-free treatment of the separation and distribution of Patriot. Under the Tax Matters Agreement, both companies are restricted from taking any action that prevents the Spin-off and related transactions from being tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Under the Tax Matters Agreement, for the two-year period following the Spin-off, FRP will be prohibited, except in certain circumstances, from: • entering into any transaction resulting in the acquisition of 50% or more of its stock or substantially all of its assets, whether by merger or otherwise; • merging, consolidating, or liquidating; • issuing equity securities beyond certain thresholds; • repurchasing its capital stock; and • ceasing to actively conduct its business. 5 These restrictions may limit FRP’s ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or other transactions that it may believe to be in the best interests of its shareholders or that might increase the value of its business. In addition, under the Tax Matters Agreement, FRP is required to indemnify Patriot against any such tax liabilities as a result of the acquisition of FRP’s stock or assets, even if it did not participate in or otherwise facilitate the acquisition. This may result in missed opportunities or the pursuit of business strategies that may not be as beneficial for us and which may negatively affect our anticipated profitability. If Patriot fails to comply with the restrictions in the Tax Matters Agreement and as a result the Spin-off was determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, FRP and its shareholders at the time of the Spin-off that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Although the tax sharing agreement provides that Patriot is required to indemnify us for taxes incurred that may arise were Patriot to fail to comply with its obligations under the Tax Matters Agreement, there is no assurance that Patriot will have the funds to satisfy that liability. The business of the Company is less diversified. Our operational and financial profile has changed as a result of the Spin-off of the transportation business. As a result, our diversification of revenue sources has diminished without the revenue previously generated by the transportation business, and our results of operations, cash flows, working capital and financing requirements may be subject to increased volatility related to the real estate business. If we are unable to manage that volatility, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Business Our business may be adversely affected by seasonal factors and harsh weather conditions. The Mining Royalty Lands Segment and the Land Development and Construction Segment could be adversely affected by reduced construction and mining activity during periods of inclement weather. These factors could cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. An occurrence of unusually harsh or long-lasting inclement weather such as hurricanes, tornadoes and heavy snowfalls could have an adverse effect on our operations and profitability. Our revenues depend in part on construction sector activity, which tends to be cyclical. Our Mining Royalty Lands Segment revenues are derived from royalties on construction aggregates mined on our properties. Thus, our results depend in part on residential, commercial and infrastructure construction activity and spending levels. The construction industry in our markets tends to be cyclical. Construction activity and spending levels vary across our markets and are influenced by interest rates, inflation, consumer spending habits, demographic shifts, environmental laws and regulations, employment levels and the availability of funds for public infrastructure projects. Economic downturns may lead to recessions in the construction industry, either in individual markets or nationally. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. Liability for environmental contamination on real property owned by the Company may include the following costs, without limitation: investigation and feasibility study costs, remediation costs, litigation costs, oversight costs, monitoring costs, institutional control costs, penalties from state and federal agencies and third-party claims. These costs could be substantial and in extreme cases could exceed the value of the contaminated property. Moreover, on-site operations may be suspended until certain environmental contamination is remediated and/or permits are received, and governmental agencies can impose permanent restrictions on the manner in which a property may be used depending on the extent and nature of the contamination. This may result in a breach of the terms of the lease entered into with our tenants. Governmental agencies also may create liens on contaminated sites for damages it incurred to address such contamination. In addition, the presence of hazardous substances at, on, under or from a property may adversely affect our ability to sell the property or borrow funds using the property as collateral, thus harming our financial condition. 6 The presence of contaminated material at our RiverFront on the Anacostia development site will subject us to substantial environmental liability and costs as construction proceeds. With respect to our RiverFront on the Anacostia site in Washington, D.C., preliminary environmental testing has indicated the presence of contaminated material that will have to be specially handled in excavation in conjunction with construction. While we may recover partial reimbursement for these costs from our prior tenant and/or neighboring property owners, we still expect to incur significant environmental costs in connection with construction. With respect to Phase I of the development, we recorded an expense in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 of $1,771,000 for this environmental remediation liability which is the lower end of the range of estimates. As of September 30, 2015 the excavation and foundation work for Phase I were substantially complete; thus, the bulk of the remediation expenses have been incurred. Management believes the total cost for remediation of Phase 1 will end up at approximately $1.9 million. The Company has no obligation to remediate this contamination on Phases II, III and IV until such time as it commences construction there. Uninsured losses could significantly reduce our earnings. We self-insure for a portion of our claims exposure resulting from workers’ compensation, auto liability, general liability and employees’ health insurance. We also are responsible for our legal expenses relating to such claims. We maintain insurance above the amounts for which we self-insure with licensed insurance carriers. Although we believe the aggregate insurance limits should be sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed our aggregate coverage limits. Additionally, there are certain losses, such as losses from hurricanes, terrorism, wars or earthquakes, where insurance is limited or not economically justifiable. If the Company experiences an uninsured loss of real property, we could lose both the invested capital and anticipated revenues associated with such property. We accrue currently for estimated incurred losses and expenses and periodically evaluate and adjust our claims accrued liability to reflect our experience. However, ultimate results may differ from our estimates, which could result in losses greater than accrued amounts. We may be unable to renew leases or re-lease properties as leases expire. When a lease expires, a tenant may elect not to renew it. If that occurs, we may not be able to lease the property on similar terms. The terms of renewal or re-lease (including the cost of required renovations and concessions to tenants) may be less favorable than the prior lease. If we are unable to lease all or substantially all of our properties, or if the rental rates upon such re-leasing are significantly lower than expected rates, our cash generated before debt repayments and capital expenditures may be adversely affected. As of September 30, 2015, leases of our properties representing approximately 3.6%, 18.0%, and 24.7% of the total square footage of buildings completed prior to September 30, 2015 are scheduled to expire in fiscal years 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively. We may be unable to lease currently vacant properties. As of September 30, 2015, 9.4% of our properties are vacant. If we are unable to obtain leases sufficient to cover carrying costs then our cash flows may be adversely affected. The bankruptcy or insolvency of significant tenants with long-term leases may adversely affect income produced by our properties. We have 17 buildings in our portfolio that are single-tenant occupied, representing 49% of developed property rentals under long-term leases. We have 11 other tenants with leases in excess of five years. Should tenants default on their obligations, our cash flow would be adversely affected and we may not be able to find another 7 tenant to occupy the space under similar terms or may have to make expenditures to retrofit or divide the space. Additionally, we may have to incur a non-cash expense for a significant amount of deferred rent revenue generated from the accounting requirement to straight-line rental revenues. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant may also adversely affect the income produced by a property. If any of our tenants become a debtor in a case under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, we cannot evict that tenant solely because of its bankruptcy. The bankruptcy court may authorize the tenant to reject and terminate its lease with the Company. Our claim against such a tenant for unpaid future rent would be subject to a statutory limitation that may be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed to us under the tenant’s lease. Any shortfall in rent payments could adversely affect our cash flow. A decline in the economic conditions in Baltimore, Washington, D.C. and Northern Virginia markets could adversely affect our business. Nearly all of our office and warehouse properties are located in the Baltimore, Washington, D.C. and Northern Virginia areas. As a result of our geographic concentration, we depend upon the local conditions in these markets, including local real estate conditions. We are, therefore, subject to increased exposure (positive or negative) to economic and other competitive factors specific to markets in confined geographic areas. Our operations may also be affected if too many competing properties are built in these markets. An economic downturn in these markets could adversely affect our operation. We cannot be sure that these markets will continue to grow or will continue to provide favorable demand for our office and warehouse spaces. Our inability to obtain necessary approvals for property development could adversely affect our profitability. We may be unable to obtain, or incur delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs or abandonment of certain projects. Before we can develop a property, we must obtain a variety of approvals from local and state governments with respect to such matters as zoning, density, parking, subdivision, site planning and environmental issues. Legislation could impose moratoriums on new real estate development or land-use conversions from mining to development. These factors may reduce our profit or growth and may limit the value of these properties. Real estate investments are not as liquid as other types of assets. The illiquid nature of real estate investments may limit our ability to react promptly to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, significant expenditures associated with real estate investments, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investments. Thus, the illiquid nature of our real estate investments could adversely affect our profitability under certain economic conditions. Our debt service obligations may have adverse consequences on our business operations. We use debt to finance our operations, including acquisitions of properties. Our use of debt may have adverse consequences, including the following: ·Our cash flows from operations may not be sufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. ·We may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms, to make payments on our debt. ·We may default on our debt obligations, and the lenders may foreclose on our properties that collateralize those loans. ·A foreclosure on one of our properties could create taxable income without any accompanying cash proceeds to pay the tax. ·A default under a mortgage loan that has cross default provisions may cause us to automatically default on another loan. 8 ·We may not be able to refinance or extend our existing debt. ·The terms of any refinancing or extension may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. ·We may not be able to issue debt on unencumbered properties under reasonable terms to finance growth of our portfolio of properties. ·We may be subject to a significant increase in the variable interest rates on our unsecured and secured lines of credit, which could adversely impact our operations. ·Our debt agreements have yield maintenance requirements that result in a penalty if we prepay loans. As of September 30, 2015, we had outstanding non-recourse mortgage indebtedness of $40,191,000, secured by developed real estate properties having a carrying value of $55,233,000. Our uncollateralized revolving credit agreement restricts our ability to engage in some business activities. Our uncollateralized revolving credit agreement contains customary negative covenants and other financial and operating covenants that, among other things: ·restricts our ability to incur certain additional indebtedness; ·restricts our ability to make certain investments; ·restricts our ability to merge with another company; ·restricts our ability to pay dividends; ·requires us to maintain financial coverage ratios; and ·requires us to not encumber certain assets except as approved by the lenders. These restrictions could cause us to default on our unsecured line of credit or negatively affect our operations. Our Asset Management and Land Development and Construction Segments face competition from numerous sources. As a developer of flexible warehouse and office space, we compete with numerous developers, owners and operators of real estate, many of whom own properties similar to ours in the same submarkets in which our properties are located. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates, or below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants, we may lose potential tenants and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates to an amount lower than we currently charge in order to retain tenants when our tenants’ leases expire. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations could be materially adversely affected. Construction costs may be higher than anticipated. Our long-term business plan includes a number of construction projects. The construction costs of these projects may exceed original estimates and possibly make the completion of a property uneconomical. Building material commodity shortages, construction delays or stoppages or rapidly escalating construction costs may out-pace market rents, which would adversely affect our profits. The market environment and existing lease commitments may not allow us to raise rents to cover these higher costs. Risks Relating to our Common Stock Certain shareholders have effective control of a significant percentage of FRP's common stock and likely will control the outcome of any shareholder vote. As of September 30, 2015, two of our directors, John D. Baker, II and Thompson S. Baker, II beneficially own approximately 21% of the outstanding shares of our common stock (75% of such shares are held in trusts under which voting power is shared with other family members) and the certain of their family members beneficially 9 own an additional 12.5%. As a result, these individuals effectively may have the ability to direct the election of all members of our board of directors and to exercise a controlling influence over its business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations involving the Company, its acquisition or disposition of assets, its borrowing of monies, its issuance of any additional securities, its repurchase of common stock and its payment of dividends. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and certain provisions of Florida law could delay or prevent a change in control of FRP. The existence of some provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and Florida law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of FRP that a shareholder may consider favorable. These include provisions: • providing that directors may be removed by our shareholders only for cause; • establishing supermajority vote requirements for shareholders to amend certain provisions of the articles of incorporation and bylaws; • authorizing a large number of shares of stock that are not yet issued, which would allow FRP’s board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of its management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of FRP; • prohibiting shareholders from calling special meetings of shareholders or taking action by written consent; and • imposing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors at the annual shareholder meetings. These provisions apply even if a takeover offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the Company’s or the shareholders’ best interests. FRP may issue preferred stock with terms that could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation authorize us to issue, without the approval of our shareholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other rights, and such qualifications, limitations or restrictions as our board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of FRP's common stock. For example, FRP could grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of its directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or dividend, distribution or liquidation preferences FRP could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 