Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our future results may be affected by a number of factors over which we have little or no control. The following issues, uncertainties, and risks, among others, should be considered in evaluating our business and outlook. Also, note that additional risks not currently identified or known to us could also negatively impact our business or financial results. Certain shareholders have effective control of nearly a majority of our common stock and likely will control the outcome of any shareholder vote. As of November 30, 2007, three of our directors, Edward L. Baker, John D. Baker II and Thompson S. Baker II, beneficially own approximately 46% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, these individuals effectively may have the ability to direct the election of all members of our Board of Directors and to exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations involving us, our acquisition or disposition of assets, our borrowing of monies, our issuance of any additional securities, our repurchase of common stock and our payment of dividends. Our charter, bylaws and shareholder rights agreement contain anti- takeover provisions that may hinder a takeover or negatively affect our stock price. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws and shareholder rights agreement contain several provisions that may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions dividing our board of directors into four classes of directors serving four-year terms and providing that directors may only be removed for cause. Our articles of incorporation also provide that our shareholders can take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of shareholders and require a supermajority vote to approve certain matters. In addition, our board of directors is authorized to issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock and to determine the rights and preferences of any shares of preferred stock to be issued. Our shareholder rights plan is designed to guard against coercive or unfair tactics to gain control of us. The rights will cause substantial dilution to any person or group who attempts to acquire a significant amount of common stock without approval of our board of directors. Because we can redeem the rights, the rights will not interfere with a merger or other business combination approved by our board. We may be adversely impacted by rising fuels costs and limited availability of fuel. The market price for fuel, which recently rose to its highest price in over a decade, can be extremely volatile and can be affected by a number of economic and political factors. Rising fuel prices adversely impact us in two ways. Our transportation business requires large amounts of diesel fuel to operate our tractors. Historically, we have been able to recover increases in fuel prices from customers through fuel surcharges, but our earnings will be reduced if we are not able to fully offset fuel price increases with surcharges in the future. In addition, increased fuel prices often reduce consumer demand for the petroleum products hauled by our tank lines subsidiary, adversely impacting revenues. Disruptions in the political climate in key oil producing regions in the world could limit the availability of fuel in the United States, increasing our fuel costs and possibly reducing revenues in our transportation business. Our operations may also be adversely affected by any limit on the availability of fuel. Our business may be adversely affected by seasonal factors and harsh weather conditions. Our business is subject to seasonal trends common in the refined petroleum products delivery industry. We typically face increased demand for fuels delivery services in Florida during the spring months. Our real estate group and our flatbed trucking subsidiary are adversely affected by reduced construction activity during periods of inclement weather. These factors can cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. An occurrence of unusually harsh or long-lasting inclement weather such as hurricanes, tornadoes and heavy snowfalls could have an adverse effect on our operations and profitability. Our revenues depend in part on construction sector activity levels, which tend to be cyclical. One of our transportation subsidiaries hauls construction materials. This subsidiary continues to be significantly affected by the decline in residential construction activity in our market. Our real estate group receives part of its revenues from royalties on construction aggregates mined on our properties. Thus, our results depend in part on residential, commercial and infrastructure construction activity and spending levels. The construction industry in our markets tends to be cyclical. Construction activity and spending levels vary across our markets and are influenced by interest rates, inflation, consumer spending habits, demographic shifts, environmental laws and regulations, employment levels and the availability of funds for public infrastructure projects. Economic downturns may lead to recessions in the construction industry, either in individual markets or nationally. We face great difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified drivers. In recent years the transportation industry has had great difficulty attracting and retaining qualified drivers (including independent contractors), and competition for drivers is increasingly intense. To compete for drivers, we may be forced to increase driver compensation. We cannot be certain that we could pass along the increased compensation costs to our customers. If we are unable to continue to attract drivers and contract with independent contractors, we could be required to suffer downtime and lost revenue miles. New tractors are more expensive and less fuel efficient. New tractors are more expensive, primarily due to higher commodity prices, better pricing power among equipment manufacturers, and government regulations applicable to newly manufactured tractors and diesel engines. Revised EPA regulations decrease the amount of permitted air emissions that can be released by tractor engines and affect tractors produced after the effective date of the regulations. Compliance with these regulations has increased the cost of our new tractors and lowered fuel mileage. This will increase our capital expenses and our operating expenses. These adverse effects combined with the uncertainty as to the reliability of the vehicles equipped with the newly designed diesel engines and the residual values that will be realized from the disposition of these vehicles could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business or operations. We have significant ongoing capital requirements. Our transportation business requires substantial ongoing capital investment, particularly for tractors, trailers, terminals and technology. For the past few years, we have depended on cash from operations and our credit facilities to fund our revenue equipment. We expect to continue to pay for projected capital expenditures with cash flows from operations and borrowings under our line of credit. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations and obtain financing on favorable terms in the future, we may have to limit our growth, enter into less favorable financing arrangements, or operate our revenue equipment for longer periods, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. The loss of one of our major transportation customers could have a materially adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our transportation revenue is generated from our major customers. For 2007, our top 10 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 50.7% of our revenue. A reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. The trucking industry is extremely competitive and fragmented. The trucking industry is extremely competitive and fragmented. No single truckload carrier has a significant market share. We compete with many other truckload carriers of varying sizes, customers' private fleets, and, to a lesser extent, with railroads which may limit our growth opportunities and reduce profitability. Some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or maintain our profit margins. Many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting so-called "core carriers" as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected. Historically, competition has created downward pressure on the truckload industry's pricing structure. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, fuel storage tanks, air emissions from our vehicles and facilities, and engine idling. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. We also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at several of our facilities. Although we have instituted programs to monitor and control environmental risks and promote compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, the failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could subject us to liabilities, including substantial fines or penalties or civil and criminal liability, that could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. Uninsured losses could significantly reduce our earnings. We self-insure for a portion of our claims exposure resulting from workers' compensation, auto liability, general liability, cargo and property damage claims, as well as employees' health insurance. We also are responsible for our legal expenses relating to such claims. We maintain insurance above the amounts for which we self- insure with licensed insurance carriers. Although we believe the aggregate insurance limits should be sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that one or more claims could exceed our aggregate coverage limits. Also, there are some types of losses such as from hurricanes, terrorism, wars, or earthquakes where insurance is limited and/or not economically justifiable. If an uninsured loss occurs, we could lose both the invested capital and anticipated revenues. We reserve currently for anticipated losses and expenses. We periodically evaluate and adjust our claims reserves to reflect our experience. However, ultimate results may differ from our estimates, which could result in losses over our reserved amounts. Rising insurance costs could significantly reduce our earnings. Insurance carriers sometimes raise premiums for many businesses, including trucking companies. As a result, our insurance and claims expense could increase, or we could raise our self-insured retention when our policies are renewed. If we are unable to pass along this cost increase to customers, our earnings may be significantly reduced. Compliance with new or future transportation regulations may significantly reduce earnings. Our transportation operations are regulated and licensed by various U.S. agencies. While the costs of compliance with existing regulations generally is reflected in our prior results, new regulations (such as the new tractor air emissions regulations) and future laws and regulations may be more stringent and require changes in our operating practices, influence the demand for transportation services, or require us to incur significant additional costs. Higher costs incurred by us could adversely affect our results of operations. We may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. When a lease expires, a tenant may elect not to renew it. We may not be able to relet the property on similar terms. The terms of renewal or re-lease (including the cost of required renovations and/or concessions to tenants) may be less favorable than the prior lease. If we are unable to relet all or a substantial portion of our properties, or if the rental rates upon such reletting are significantly lower than expected rates, our cash generated before debt repayments and capital expenditures may be adversely affected. As of September 30, 2007, leases at our properties representing approximately 7% and 19% of the total square footage of our current portfolio were scheduled to expire in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009, respectively. The bankruptcy or insolvency of significant tenants with long-term leases may adversely affect income produced by our properties. We have ten buildings in our business parks that are single-tenant occupied representing 48% of developed property rentals under long- term leases. We have four other tenants with leases in excess of five years. Should tenants default on their obligations, our cash flow would be adversely affected and we may not be able to find another tenant to occupy the space under similar terms or have to make expenditures to retrofit and/or divide the space. In addition we may have to incur a non-cash expense for a significant amount of deferred rent revenue generated from the accounting requirement to straight-line rental revenues. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant may also adversely affect the income produced by a property. If any of our tenants becomes a debtor in a case under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, we cannot evict that tenant solely because of its bankruptcy. The bankruptcy court may authorize the tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. Our claim against such a tenant for unpaid future rent would be subject to a statutory limitation that might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed to us under the tenant's lease. Any shortfall in rent payments could adversely affect our cash flow. A decline in the economic conditions in Baltimore/Washington, D.C. area could adversely affect Our business. All of our office/warehouse properties are located in the Baltimore and Washington, D.C. areas. As a result of our geographic concentration, we depend upon the local conditions in these markets, including local real estate conditions. We are, therefore, subject to increased exposure (positive or negative) to economic and other competitive factors specific to markets in confined geographic areas. Our operations may also be affected if too many competing properties are built in these markets. An economic downturn in these markets could adversely affect our operation. We cannot assure you that these markets will continue to grow or will continue to provide favorable demand for our office/warehouse product. Our inability to obtain necessary approvals for property development could adversely affect our profitability. We may be unable to obtain, or incur delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs or abandonment of these projects. Before we can develop a property, we must obtain a variety of approvals from local and state governments with respect to such matters as zoning, density, parking, subdivision, site planning and environmental issues. Legislation could impose moratoriums on new real estate development and/or land-use conversions from mining to development. These factors may reduce our profit or growth and may limit the value of these properties. Real estate investments are not as liquid as other types of assets. The illiquid nature of real estate investments may limit our ability to react promptly to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, significant expenditures associated with real estate investments, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investments. Thus, the illiquid nature of our real estate investments could adversely affect our profitability under certain economic conditions. Our Debt Service Obligations May Have Adverse Consequences on Our Business Operations. We use debt to finance our operations, including acquisitions of properties. Our use of debt may have adverse consequences, including the following: ? Our cash flows from operations may not be sufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. ? We may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms, to make payments on our debt. ? We may default on our debt obligations, and the lenders may foreclose on our properties that collateralize those loans. ? A foreclosure on one of our properties could create taxable income without any accompanying cash proceeds to pay the tax. ? A default under a mortgage loan that has cross default provisions may cause us to automatically default on another loan. ? We may not be able to refinance or extend our existing debt. ? The terms of any refinancing or extension may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. ? We may be subject to a significant increase in the variable interest rates on our unsecured line of credit or unsecured term loan, which could adversely impact our operations. As of September 30, 2007, we had outstanding mortgage indebtedness of $83,934,000, secured by developed real estate properties having a carrying value of $88,514,000. Our Uncollateralized Revolving Credit Agreement Restricts Our Ability to Engage in Some Business Activities. Our uncollateralized revolving credit agreement contains customary negative covenants and other financial and operating covenants that, among other things: ? restricts our ability to incur certain additional indebtedness; ? restricts our ability to make certain investments; ? restricts our ability to merge with another company; ? restricts our ability to pay dividends; ? requires us to maintain financial coverage ratios; and ? requires us to not encumbered certain assets except as approved by the lenders. These restrictions could cause us to default on our unsecured line of credit or negatively affect our operations. Our real estate segment faces competition from numerous sources. As a developer of flexible warehouse/office space, we compete with numerous developers, owners and operators of real estate, many of which own properties similar to ours in the same submarkets in which our properties are located. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates, or below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants, we may lose potential tenants and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain tenants when our tenants' leases expire. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations could be materially adversely affected. Construction costs may be higher than anticipated. Our business plan includes a number of construction projects. The construction costs of these projects may exceed original estimates and possibly make the completion of a property uneconomical. Building material commodity shortages, construction delays/stoppages and/or rapidly escalating construction costs may out-pace market rents, adversely affecting profits. The market environment and existing lease commitments may not allow us to raise rents to cover these higher costs. 