ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our operating results, our financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Annual Report. We incurred substantial indebtedness to finance the acquisition of Hudson and are subject to compliance with those financing agreements, which may decrease business flexibility and adversely affect financial results. We incurred substantial indebtedness to finance the acquisition of Hudson, including approximately $32,445,000 in the aggregate principal amount of convertible notes, a $50,000,000 revolving credit facility and a $60,000,000 term loan facility. In addition, Hudson is now a borrower and/or credit party under these financing agreements. In connection with the revolving and term loan agreements, we have certain restrictions on our ability and our subsidiaries' ability to incur indebtedness; create liens; consolidate, merge, liquidate or dissolve; sell, lease or otherwise transfer any assets; substantially change the nature of the business; make investments or acquisitions; pay dividends; enter into transactions with affiliates; amend material documents, prepay indebtedness and make capital expenditures. In addition, all of our assets, including our trademarks, secure our obligations under the revolving and term loan agreements. The restrictive financial and other covenants to which we have agreed in connection with the incurrence of such debt, and our increased indebtedness and higher debt-to-equity ratio in comparison to that on a recent historical basis may have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less indebtedness. This may make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions. The increased indebtedness will also increase borrowing costs and the covenants in the agreements limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate requirements. We are also required to dedicate a larger portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. In addition, our revolving credit facility contains certain financial and maintenance covenants, including covenants related to minimum availability, fixed charge coverage ratio and our capital expenditures. Our term loan facility also contains certain financial and maintenance covenants, including covenants related to minimum availability, fixed charge coverage ratio, minimum consolidated EBITDA requirements, leverage ratio and capital expenditures. Such financial and maintenance covenants, together with restrictive r covenants, could limit our ability to respond to market conditions or provide for unanticipated capital investments necessary to conduct our business. In addition, our failure to comply with the various covenants under our credit facilities could have material adverse consequences to us. Such noncompliance may result in our inability to borrow under our revolving credit facility, which we utilize to access our working capital, and as a result may adversely affect our ability to finance our operations or pursue any expansion plans. Our revolving and term loan agreements contain cross-default provisions such that an event of default under either of such agreements will result in an event of default under the other agreement. An event of default under the revolving and term loan agreements could also result in the acceleration of all of indebtedness under either or both of such credit facilities, which would adversely affect our ability to obtain financing necessary to operate our business. Upon the occurrence of an "event of default" under our revolving and term loan agreements, all of our assets could be subject to liquidation by the creditors, which liquidation could result in no assets being left for the stockholders after the creditors receive their required payment. 12 Table of Contents All of our assets are pledged under our agreements with CIT and Garrison Loan Agency Services LLC, or Garrison. In addition to being dependent on our financing agreements with CIT, we have pledged to CIT and/or Garrison as collateral all of our tangible and intangible assets, which include trademarks, raw materials such as fabric and trim, finished goods, and our receivables. In the event we default or the parties elect to terminate the agreements, we would be required to pay our liability to CIT and Garrison. If we were unable or unwilling to pay all or part of our liability, our lenders could exercise their rights under the agreements to the pledged collateral and sell any or all of these assets. In the event our lenders elect this remedy, our operations and our sales could be materially adversely impacted by the sale of or our inability to utilize these assets in our normal business operations. We have incurred, and will continue to incur significant transaction and acquisition-related costs in connection with the acquisition. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with integrating the operations of Hudson. The substantial majority of non-recurring expenses resulting from the acquisition have been and will be comprised of transaction costs related to the acquisition, facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment related costs. We will also incur transaction fees and costs related to formulating integration plans. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of Hudson's business. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, should allow us to more than offset incremental transaction and acquisition-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. If we are unable to manage our growth after the addition of the Hudson business, our business and financial results could suffer. Our future financial results will depend in part on our ability to profitably manage our core businesses, including any growth related to the acquisition of Hudson. Over the past several years, both of Hudson and Joe's have engaged in the identification of, and competition for, growth and expansion opportunities. In order to achieve those initiatives, we will need to, among other things, recruit, train, retain and effectively manage employees and expand our operations and financial control systems. If we are unable to manage our businesses effectively and profitably, our business and financial results could suffer. The acquisition may not achieve its intended results and could adversely affect our financial results. We entered into the stock purchase agreement in connection with the acquisition of Hudson with the expectation that the acquisition would result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings, operating efficiencies and growth opportunities. Our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the business of Hudson is integrated in an efficient and effective manner. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company and diversion of management's time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined company's business, financial results and prospects. Our success will depend on increasing our sales, opening and operating our retail stores and integrating Hudson into our operations. Our ability to operate profitably depends on our ability to implement our strategic plan with success, including the integration of Hudson into our operations. During fiscal 2013, we recognized growth for our Joe's® brand through increases in our Joe's® men's domestic and retail sales. 13 Table of Contents Since we have primarily been a wholesaler, opening and operating retail stores has required us to develop retailing skills and capabilities and increase our expenditures. We are required to enter into leases, increase our rental expenses and make capital expenditures for these stores. These commitments may be costly to terminate, and these investments may be difficult to recapture if we decide to close a store or change our strategy. We must also offer a broad product assortment, appropriately manage retail inventory levels, install and operate effective retail systems, execute effective pricing strategies and integrate our stores into our overall business mix. Finally, we need to hire and train additional qualified employees and incur additional costs to operate these stores, which increase our operating expenses. If we do not manage these items properly, it could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our future success will depend on our ability to successfully and efficiently integrate Hudson's business, operations and personnel. Even if integration is successful, the financial performance of the acquired business may not be as expected and there can be no assurance we will realize anticipated revenue and earnings enhancements and other anticipated synergies from the acquisition of Hudson. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefit could result in increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues and could adversely affect our future business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. While we believe that we are putting in place the mechanisms necessary to implement successfully these strategies, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our level of expectations. Further, there can be no assurance that these initiatives will result in profitability for us in the short term or in the future. Leasing real estate exposes us to possible liabilities and losses which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We enter into leases in connection with our retail stores. Accordingly, we are subject to all of the risks associated with leasing real estate. Store leases generally require us to pay a fixed minimum rent and a variable amount based on a percentage of annual sales at that location. We generally cannot terminate our leases and have restrictions in connection with assigning or subletting our leases. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may be committed to perform certain obligations under the applicable lease, including paying rent for the balance of the applicable lease term. As each of our leases expire, if we do not have a renewal option, we may be unable to renegotiate a renewal on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, which could cause us to close stores in desirable locations. In addition, we may not be able to close an unprofitable store due to an existing operating covenant, which may cause us to operate the location at a loss and prevent us from finding a more desirable location. Our ability to attract customers to our stores depends heavily on successfully locating our stores in suitable locations and any impairment of a store location, including any decrease in customer traffic, could cause our sales to be less than expected. Our approach to identifying locations for our retail stores typically favors street and mall locations near luxury and contemporary retailers that we believe are consistent with our key customers' demographics and shopping preferences. Sales at these stores are derived, in part, from the volume of foot traffic in these locations. Changes in areas around our existing retail locations that result in reductions in customer foot traffic or otherwise render the locations unsuitable could cause our sales to be less than expected and the related leases are generally non-cancelable. Store locations may become unsuitable due to, and our sales volume and customer traffic generally may be harmed by, among other things: •economic downturns in a particular area; 14 Table of Contents •competition from nearby retailers selling similar apparel; •changing consumer demographics in a particular market; •changing preferences of consumers in a particular market; •the closing or decline in popularity of other businesses located near our store; and •store impairments due to acts of God or terrorism. Our ability to successfully open and operate new retail stores depends on many factors, including, among others, our ability to: •identify new markets where our products and brand image will be accepted or the performance of our retail stores will be successful; •obtain desired locations, including store size and adjacencies, in targeted malls or streets; •negotiate acceptable lease terms, including desired rent and tenant improvement allowances, to secure suitable store locations; •achieve brand awareness, affinity and purchase intent in the new markets; •hire, train and retain store associates and field management; •assimilate new store associates and field management into our corporate culture; •source and supply sufficient inventory levels; and •successfully integrate new retail stores into our existing operations and information technology systems. As of February 13, 2014, we had 34 stores, which consist of 14 full price retail stores and 20 outlet locations. We plan to continue to increase our store base; however, we do not have any signed leases for store openings in 2014 or beyond. Our new stores may not be immediately profitable and we may incur losses until these stores become profitable. Unavailability of desired store locations, delays in the acquisition or opening of new stores, delays or costs resulting from a decrease in commercial development due to capital restraints, difficulties in staffing and operating new store locations or a lack of customer acceptance of stores in new market areas may negatively impact our new store growth and the costs or the profitability associated with new stores. There can be no assurance that we will open new stores in fiscal 2014 or thereafter. Any failure to successfully open and operate new stores may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We may be unable to maintain or grow comparable store sales or average sales per square foot at the same rates that we have achieved in the past, which could cause our share price to decline. We may not be able to maintain or grow at the same rates of comparable store sales growth that we have achieved historically. In addition, we may not be able to maintain or grow our historic average sales per square foot as we move into new markets. If our future comparable store sales or average sales per square foot decline or fail to meet market expectations, the price of our common stock could decline. In addition, the aggregate results of operations through our wholesale partners and at our retail locations have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of factors affect both comparable store sales and average sales per square foot, including, among others, consumer spending patterns, fashion trends, competition, current economic conditions, pricing, inflation, the timing of the release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in our product assortment, the success of marketing programs and weather conditions. If we misjudge the market for our products, we may incur excess inventory for some of our products and miss opportunities for other products. These factors may cause our comparable store sales results and 15 Table of Contents average sales per square foot in the future to be materially lower than recent periods or our expectations, which could harm our results of operations and result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Our business may be negatively impacted as a result of the current uncertainty of the economy in the United States and abroad. The general economy in the United States and abroad continues to be in the midst of uncertainty. Our business depends on the general economic environment and levels of consumer spending that affect not only the ultimate consumer, but also retailers, our largest direct customers. Purchases of high-fashion apparel and accessories tend to decline in periods of recession or uncertainty regarding future economic prospects, when consumer spending, particularly on discretionary items, and disposable income decline. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel industries, including, among others: prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, energy costs, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. During periods of recession or economic uncertainty, we may not be able to maintain or increase our sales to existing customers, make sales to new customers, open and operate new retail stores, or maintain or improve our earnings from operations as a percentage of net sales. As a result, our operating results may be adversely and materially affected by downward trends in the United States or global economy. The distress in the financial markets has also resulted in extreme volatility and decline in security prices and diminished liquidity and credit availability. There can be no assurance that our liquidity and our ability to access the credit or capital markets will not be affected by changes in the financial markets and the global economy. Continuing turmoil in the financial markets could make it more difficult for us to access capital, sell assets, refinance our existing indebtedness, enter into agreements for new indebtedness or obtain funding through the issuance of our securities. In addition, the reduced availability of credit is having a significant negative impact on businesses around the world, and the impact of this reduced availability on our suppliers and other vendors cannot be predicted. The inability of suppliers and other vendors to access liquidity, or the insolvency of suppliers and other vendors, could lead to their failure to deliver our merchandise or other services that we require. Worsening economic conditions could also impair our ability to collect amounts as they become due from our customers, or other third parties that do business with us. We also face the increased risk of order reductions or cancellations when dealing with financially ailing customers or customers struggling with economic uncertainty. We face risks associated with constantly changing fashion trends, including consumer's response to our products. If we are unable to adapt to changing fashion trends, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond to changing consumer demand and fashion trends in a timely manner. Any failure on our part to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect the acceptance of our products and leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities in the marketplace. If that occurs, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which may negatively affect our ability to achieve profitability. At the same time, a focus on tight management of inventory may result, from time to time, in our not having an adequate supply of products to meet consumer demand and may cause us to lose sales. We attempt to minimize our risk associated with delivering items through early order commitments by retailers. We must generally place production orders with manufacturers before we have received all 16 Table of Contents of a season's orders and orders may be cancelled by retailers before shipment. Therefore, if we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to consumer preferences, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories or lower profit margins, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business and results of operations could be negatively impacted by a change in consumer demand for denim in the marketplace. Denim, including premium denim, an industry term for denim jeans with a typical retail price of approximately $120 or more, has been increasingly popular and growing in sales over the past few years as a consumer discretionary purchase both domestically and internationally. However, because consumer demands and fashion trends are subject to cyclical variations as well as the fact that the general economy and future economic prospects can often affect consumer spending habits, a change in any one of the following: •consumer demand, •consumer purchases of discretionary items, •general economic conditions, or •fashion trends, may result in lower sales, excess inventories or lower profit margins for our Joe's® products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results operations and financial condition. We face intense competition in the denim industry. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted. We face a variety of competitive challenges from other domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel producers, some of whom may be significantly larger and more diversified and have greater financial and marketing resources than we have. We do not currently hold a dominant competitive position in any market. We compete with other denim manufacturers such as True Religion, Seven for All Mankind, Citizens of Humanity and J Brand and other larger competitors primarily on the basis of: •anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner, •maintaining favorable brand recognition, •developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers, •appropriately pricing products, •providing strong and effective marketing support, •creating an acceptable value proposition for retail customers, •ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with manufacturers and retailers, and •obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail. Furthermore, some of our competitors are privately held corporations and may have resources available to them that we, as a public company, do not have. Therefore, it may be difficult for us to effectively gauge consumer response to our products and how our products are competing with these and other competitors in the marketplace. We cannot be certain that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, or that competitive pressure will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 17 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our net sales and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers, and the loss of any of these large customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are substantially dependent on our 10 largest customers and customer groups, which accounted for approximately 64 percent of our net sales during fiscal 2013. Our two largest customers, Nordstrom Inc. and Macy's Inc., each individually accounted for over 10 percent of our net sales in fiscal 2013. We do not enter into any type of long-term agreements or firm commitment orders with any of our customers. Instead, we enter into a number of individual purchase order commitments with our customers. A decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, including our limited number of private label customers, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from us, to change their manner of doing business with us, to cancel orders previously placed in advance of shipment dates or a decision to cease carrying our products could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to find an alternative customer for our products in a timely manner. Our business could be negatively impacted by the financial health of our retail customers. We sell our products primarily to retail and distribution companies around the world based on pre-qualified payment terms. Financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail business with that customer. We may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer's receivables. We are dependent primarily on lines of credit that we establish from time to time with customers, and should a substantial number of customers become unable to pay to us their respective debts as they become due, we may be unable to collect some or all of the monies owed by those customers. In particular, because of the concentration of our customer and customer groups, our results of operations could be adversely affected if any one of these customers fails to satisfy its payments obligations to us when due. In recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation, restructurings, reorganizations and other ownership changes that have resulted in one entity controlling several different stores or the elimination of stores. This consolidation can result in fewer customers for our products or the closing of some stores or the number of "doors" which carry our products. As a result, the potential for consolidation or ownership changes, closing of retail outlets and fewer customers could negatively impact sales of our products and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business could suffer as a result of a manufacturer's inability to produce our goods on time and to our specifications or if we need to replace manufacturers. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third parties for the manufacture of all of our products. We enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications and other standard industry provisions, but do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. The inability of a certain manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because of the seasonality of our business, and the apparel and fashion business in particular, the dates on which customers need and require shipments of products from us are critical, as styles and consumer tastes change so rapidly in the apparel and fashion business, particularly from one season to the next. Further, because quality is a leading factor when customers and retailers accept or reject goods, any decline in quality by our third-party manufacturers 18 Table of Contents could be detrimental not only to a particular order, but also to our future relationship with that particular customer. We compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers. Some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus may have an advantage in the competition for production and import quota capacity. If we experience a significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third-party manufacturing capacity. We cannot assure you that this additional capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us or similar to existing terms which we have with our manufacturers, either from a production standpoint or a financial standpoint. Increases in the price of raw materials or their reduced availability could increase our cost of goods and decrease our profitability. The principal fabrics used in our business are cotton, blends, synthetics and wools. The prices we pay our suppliers for our products are dependent in part on the market price for raw materials—primarily cotton—used to produce them. The price and availability of cotton may fluctuate substantially, depending on a variety of factors, including demand, crop yields, weather, supply conditions, transportation costs, work stoppages, government regulation, economic climates and other unpredictable factors. Increases in raw material costs, together with other factors, will make it difficult for us to sustain the level of cost of goods savings we have achieved in recent years and result in a decrease of our profitability unless we are able to pass higher prices on to our customers. Moreover, any decrease in the availability of cotton could impair our ability to meet our production requirements in a timely manner. We are dependent on our relationships with our vendors. We purchase our raw materials, including fabric, yarns, threads and trims, such as zippers, buttons and tags from a variety of vendors. While we are not reliant exclusively on one or more particular vendor for the supply of the raw materials or component parts required to meet our manufacturing needs, we depend on our relationships and these vendors to ensure our supply of these raw materials or component parts. Any problems or disputes with these vendors could result in us having to source these raw materials or component parts from another vendor, which could delay production, and in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to cybersecurity risks and may incur an increase in costs in an effort to minimize those risks. We utilize systems and websites that allow for the secure storage and transmission of proprietary or confidential information regarding our customers, employees, and others, including credit card information and personal identification information. A security breach may expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation, and potential liability. We may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly-evolving types of cyber attacks. Attacks may be targeted at us, our customers, or others who have entrusted us with information. Actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. Advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries, or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction or other data being breached or compromised. In addition, data and security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including breach by us or by persons with whom we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of personal or confidential information. Any compromise or breach of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. 19 Table of Contents Our licensees may not comply with our product quality, manufacturing standards, marketing and other requirements, which may have an adverse effect on our brand equity, reputation or our business. We license our trademarks to third parties for manufacturing, marketing and distribution of children's products and shoes. We believe that licensing the Joe's® brand for certain product categories will broaden and enhance the products available under the brand name. While our agreements with our licensees cover product design, product quality, sourcing, manufacturing, marketing and other requirements, our licensees may not comply fully with those agreements. Non-compliance could include marketing products under our brand names that do not meet our quality and other requirements or engaging in manufacturing practices that do not meet our standards. These activities could harm our brand equity, our reputation and our business. In order to effectively manage growth, we are dependent on our financing arrangements and our cash flow from operations. In addition, a default under one of our financing agreements creates a default under our other financing agreements and could force us to pay all of our debt at the same time, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Prior to the acquisition of Hudson in fiscal 2013, our primary sources of liquidity were: (i) cash from sales of our products; (ii) sales from accounts receivable factoring facilities and advances against inventory; and (iii) utilizing existing cash balances. Beginning September 30, 2013, in connection with the acquisition of Hudson, we entered into an amended and restated accounts receivable factoring facility and revolving credit agreement with CIT Commercial Services, a unit of CIT Group Inc., or CIT, that provided advances to us for eligible accounts receivable and eligible inventory up to $50,000,000, based upon the value of the eligible accounts receivable and inventory less any reserves imposed by CIT. The initial proceeds from the advances under this revolving credit facility, which included accounts receivable and inventory borrowing, were used to pay a portion of the consideration for the acquisition and fees and expenses associated with the acquisition, and the remainder was used to repay our existing factor loans and for working capital and other general corporate purposes. We are dependent on credit arrangements with suppliers and our revolving credit agreement for working capital needs with CIT. We cannot give you any assurance that should CIT experience uncertainty or insufficient cash flows that they will continue to be able to fund us in the future. As of November 30, 2013, our cash balance was $785,000 and our cash availability with CIT was approximately $25,715,000 under our revolving credit facility. This amount with CIT fluctuates on a daily basis based upon invoicing and collection related activity by CIT on our behalf. CIT has the ability to terminate the agreements we have with them upon notice or require additional collateral or impose reserves to secure its advances. We do not have any provisions in the agreements that protect us in the event of a default by CIT. If CIT elects to terminate the agreements, we could be forced to pay our liability with CIT and CIT may also elect to take possession of the pledged collateral, which includes raw materials through finished goods and receivables. Although we have undertaken numerous measures to increase sales and cash flow, control inventory costs and operate more efficiently so that we may be able to fund our operations for fiscal 2014, we may experience losses and negative cash flows. In addition, our revolving credit facility and our term loan facility are structured such that if we default under one agreement, we default under the other agreement. Thus, in the event of a default, we would be required to pay all of our obligations under both agreements. We cannot give you any assurance that we will in fact continue to operate profitably in the future. While we may be able to find alternative sources for obtaining the cash for our operating needs, including entering into factoring or inventory security agreements with another lender, it may be difficult to do so with our current debt structure. 20 Table of Contents Our directors and management, including Mr. Dahan, beneficially own a large percentage of our common stock and may be able to exert significant influence and control over us and may make decisions that do not always coincide with the interest of other stockholders. As of February 13, 2014, our executive officers and directors, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 24 percent of our common stock, including options exercisable and restricted common stock units vesting within 60 days. In particular, Joe Dahan, an executive officer and member of our Board of Directors, beneficially owned approximately 17 percent of our total shares outstanding and is our largest stockholder. As a result, such persons are in a position to exert significant control over us and have the ability to substantially influence all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, an increase in the number of shares authorized for issuance under our stock option plans, and to control our management and affairs. Accordingly, such concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our business, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to other stockholders. In addition, as of February 13, 2014, Peter Kim, the CEO of our Hudson subsidiary and a member of our Board of Directors, owns approximately $14,300,000 in the aggregate principal amount of convertible notes, which subject to receipt of stockholder approval to comply with NASDAQ rules and an increase in the number of our authorized shares, if necessary, would be convertible on September 30, 2015 into approximately 8,000,000 shares of our common stock, at the current conversion price, which would represent approximately 10 percent of our total shares outstanding. Our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain talented personnel and retain our key employees, including our chief executive officer and creative director. Our future success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain talented personnel. To date, we have not had any difficulty in attracting or retaining personnel to fill open or new positions, however, in the future, we may need to expand our infrastructure to support any anticipated growth. We may need to provide incentives, both short term and long term, to attract and retain personnel. Incentives can range from bonuses, grants of options or restricted stock to perquisites unique to the industry. All such incentives will result in an increase in certain expenses. More particularly, growth and payment of incentives to personnel and expenditures to expand our infrastructure to support our growth will cause our selling, general and administrative expenses to increase if we cannot maintain or decrease other expenses. An increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses may cause us to be less profitable. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or decrease other expenses, therefore, a decrease in profit may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our chief executive officer, Marc Crossman, has substantial experience and expertise in our business and has made significant contributions to our growth and success. The unexpected loss of his services could adversely affect us. We are protected to a limited extent by a key man term life insurance policy that we maintain on our behalf for Mr. Crossman; however, there can be no assurance that his departure would trigger protection under this policy. In May 2008, we entered into a written employment agreement with Mr. Crossman whereby he is employed by us as our President and Chief Executive Officer. The agreement has an employment term of two years with automatic renewal for additional two year periods if neither party elects not to renew the agreement upon 180 days advanced notice. If Mr. Crossman should leave us, his absence would likely have a substantial impact on our ability to operate on a daily basis because we would be forced to find and hire similarly experienced personnel to fill one or more of his positions and daily operations may suffer temporarily as a result of this immediate void. 21 Table of Contents Mr. Dahan's departure could materially adversely affect our operations because his experience, design capabilities and name recognition in the apparel industry is important to our business and we rely heavily on Mr. Dahan's capabilities to design, direct and produce product for the Joe's® brand. However, the loss of Mr. Dahan would not have any effect on our ownership of the brand. While we believe that we would be able to find a suitable replacement to design, direct and produce product for the Joe's® brand, we do not know the effect a new or different designer would have on the products and consumer's response to those new products. Therefore, loss of Mr. Dahan's services could have an impact on our ability to operate on a daily basis. Our existing stockholders may be diluted if we choose to settle the convertible notes by issuing shares of our common stock. Under the terms of the convertible notes issued in connection with the acquisition of Hudson, we choose how we settle the conversion of the notes. We can settle by issuing shares of common stock, cash, or a combination of cash and common stock, at our election. Each of the notes are convertible, in whole but not in part, at a conversion price of $1.78 per share, subject to certain adjustments, into approximately 18,200,000 shares of our common stock, subject to receipt of stockholder approval to comply with NASDAQ rules and an increase in the number of our authorized shares, if necessary. Prior to receipt of such stockholder approval, the conversion rights will be limited to approximately 13,600,000 shares of common stock. If we settle through the issuance of our common stock, this would result in a reduction of the percentage of ownership interest held by our existing stockholders. Also, the addition of a substantial number of shares of our common stock into the market or the registration of any other securities may significantly and negatively affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. In the event we seek additional capital through equity or debt offerings, our existing stockholders may be diluted or we may be unable to find additional capital on terms favorable to us and our stockholders. Furthermore, we may not be able to seek additional capital through equity or debt offerings under our revolving credit and term loan facilities. In the event that we need additional working capital for our projected operations, we may seek capital through debt or equity offerings which could result in the issuance of additional shares of our capital stock and/or rights to acquire additional shares of our capital stock. In addition, we are restricted in our ability to seek capital through debt or equity offerings from our lenders under our revolving credit and term loan facilities. Any additional issuances of capital stock would result in a reduction of the percentage of ownership interest held by our existing stockholders. Also, the addition of a substantial number of shares of our common stock into the market or the registration of any other securities may significantly and negatively affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. Finally, we may not be able to find additional capital on terms favorable to us or obtain the consent of our lenders to permit us to do so through existing markets or investors due to market conditions, our historical performance or our stock price. Our common stock price is volatile and may decrease. The trading price and volume of our common stock has historically been subject to fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: •annual and quarterly variations in actual or anticipated operating results, •operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors, •changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors, 22 Table of Contents •changes in market valuations of other denim apparel companies, •announcements of new product lines by us or our competitors, announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions or dispositions of assets, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, •additions or departures of key personnel or members of our board of directors, and •general conditions in the apparel industry. In the 52 week period prior to the filing of this Annual Report, the closing price of our common stock has ranged from $2.04 to $1.02. In addition, stock markets generally have experienced price and volume trading volatility in recent years. This volatility has had an effect on the market prices of securities of many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. We have received notification letters in the past that we no longer meet Nasdaq's requirements for continued listing. If we are not in compliance with the Nasdaq Capital Market's continued listing requirements, we may be delisted, which may decrease our stock price and make it harder for our stockholders to trade our stock and would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and harm our business. In June 2011 and December 2012, we received notification letters from Nasdaq notifying us that we no longer met Nasdaq's requirements for continued listing under Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2), or the Bid Price Rule, because the minimum bid price of our common stock did not equal or exceed $1.00 at least once over a period of 30 consecutive trading days prior to the date of the notification letter. According to Nasdaq Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we were afforded 180 calendar days, with one additional 180 calendar day extension period, to regain compliance with the Bid Price Rule. In both instances, we were able to maintain a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 for a minimum of 10 consecutive trading days during the grace period and Nasdaq sent us letters indicating that we satisfied the Bid Price Rule and the matters were closed. However, if we were not able to regain compliance in the applicable time period, Nasdaq would have provide written notification to us that our common stock would be subject to delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market. While we believe we will be able to comply with the Nasdaq requirements in the future, no assurances can be made that we will in fact be able to comply and that our common stock will remain listed on Nasdaq. If we are not able to comply with the Nasdaq requirements, our common stock will be delisted from Nasdaq and our common stock would likely be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or on the OTC Pink Sheets. As a consequence of any such delisting, a stockholder would likely find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the prices of our common stock. Also, a delisting of our common stock would adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and harm our business. The seasonal nature of our business makes management more difficult, severely reduces cash flow and liquidity during parts of the year and could force us to curtail our operations. Our business is seasonal. The majority of our marketing and sales activities take place from late fall to early spring. Historically, our greatest volume of shipments and sales occur from late spring through the early fall, which coincides with our third and fourth fiscal quarters. This requires us to build-up inventories during our first and second fiscal quarters when our cash flow is weakest. Historically speaking, our cash flow is strongest in the third and fourth fiscal quarters. Unfavorable economic conditions affecting retailers during the fall and holiday seasons in any year could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the year. We are likely to experience periods of negative cash flow throughout each year, including, a drop-off in business commencing each December, 23 Table of Contents which could force us to curtail operations if adequate liquidity is not available. We cannot assure you that the effects of such seasonality will diminish in the future. For fiscal 2013, we funded inventory purchases through cash from operations and cash availability under our financing agreements with CIT. If an independent manufacturer of ours fails to use acceptable labor practices, our business could suffer. While we require our independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we have no control over the ultimate actions of our independent manufacturers. Despite our lack of control, we have internal and vendor operating guidelines to promote ethical business practices and our staff periodically visits and monitors the operations of our independent manufacturers. We also use the services of a third party independent labor consulting service to conduct on site audits as required by state labor laws to help minimize our risk and exposure to unacceptable labor practice violations. The violation of labor or other laws by one of our independent manufacturers or the divergence of an independent manufacturer's labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In particular, the laws governing garment manufacturers in the State of California impose joint liability upon us and our independent manufacturers for the labor practices of those independent manufacturers. As a result, should one of our independent manufacturers be found in violation of state labor laws, we could suffer financial or other unforeseen consequences. Our trademark and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected and some of our products are targets of counterfeiting. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We may, however, experience conflict with various third parties who acquire or claim ownership rights in certain trademarks as we expand our product offerings and expand the number of countries where we sell our products. We cannot ensure that the actions we have taken to establish and protect these trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of their trademarks and proprietary rights. Also, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Our products are sometimes the target of counterfeiters. As a result, there are often products that are imitations or "knock-offs" of our products that can be found in the marketplace or consumers can find products that are confusingly similar to ours. We intend to continue to vigorously defend our trademarks and products bearing our trademarks, however, we cannot assure you that our efforts will be adequate to prosecute and block all sales of infringing products from the marketplace. Our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. Some of these risks include: •the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, and •new tariffs or other barriers to some international markets. 24 Table of Contents We are also subject to general political and economic risks associated with conducting international business, including: •political instability, •changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, and •general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the United States, Mexico, the European Union, Canada, China, Japan, India, South Korea or other countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in regulatory or geopolitical policies and other factors may adversely affect our business in the future or may require us to modify our current business practices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 