Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules Signature Page Item 16.2 Schedule II – Valuation of Qualifying Accounts PART I Forward-Looking Statements Statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or Annual Report, and in future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, in our press releases or in our other public or shareholder communications that are not purely historical facts are forward-looking statements. Statements looking forward in time are included in this Annual Report pursuant to the “safe harbor” provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements, and may contain the words, “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”, “estimate”, “intend”, “plan”, “project”, “will be”, “will continue”, “will likely result”, and any variations of such words with similar meanings. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or forecasted in any such forward-looking statements. Factors that would cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the risk factors contained or referenced under the headings “Business,” “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” set forth in this Annual Report. Since we operate in a rapidly changing environment, new risk factors can arise and it is not possible for our management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements that only speak as of the date of this filing. We undertake no obligation to publicly revise these forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances or the occurrence of unanticipated events that occur subsequent to the date of this Annual Report. As used in this Annual Report, the terms “we”, “us”, “our”, and “Innovo Group” refer to Innovo Group Inc. and our subsidiaries and affiliates, unless the context indicates otherwise. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We began our operations in April 1987 as Innovo, Inc., or Innovo, a Texas corporation, to manufacture and domestically distribute cut and sewn canvas and nylon consumer products for the utility, craft, sports licensed and advertising specialty markets. In 1990, Innovo merged into Elorac Corporation, a Delaware corporation and renamed itself our present name, Innovo Group Inc. We focused our operations primarily on producing craft and accessory products for the consumer marketplace through various operating subsidiaries. Since that time, we gradually evolved from producing craft and accessory products to designing and selling apparel products. During this transition, we moved our operations from Tennessee to Los Angeles, California. Our principal business activity has evolved into the design, development and worldwide marketing of apparel products. Our products consist of Joe’s Jeans®, other branded labels, including indie™, and private label denim and denim related products. We generally rely on third party manufacturers to manufacture our apparel products for distribution. We sell our products to numerous retailers, which include major department stores, specialty stores and mass market retailers, distributors and private label customers around the world. 1 Our premier branded apparel products bear the brand name Joe’s Jeans® and are designed, developed and marketed by us internally pursuant to a license agreement. Our private label apparel products are outsourced to us from different customers, generally retail chains who desire to sell apparel products under their own brand name. We currently provide private label apparel products to American Eagle Outfitters, Inc., or AEO, and Target Corporation, or Target. We work with our private label customers to create their own brand image by custom designing products where the customer may provide samples directly to us or may select styles and designs already available in our showrooms. Beginning in 2004 with our exit from producing urban branded apparel products and through 2005, we continued to re-evaluate our various license agreements and segments of operations. In July 2005, we terminated the license agreement associated with the Betsey Johnson® brand and in January 2006, we announced our intention to sell and/or exit operations for our indie™ branded apparel business. In May 2005, we sold the remaining assets of our craft and accessory business segment operated under our Innovo Inc. subsidiary. The sale of our craft and accessory business segment and our commercial rental property and former headquarters in Springfield, Tennessee, which we have sold, are classified as discontinued operations, and accordingly, are reported as such. Recent Developments For fiscal year 2006, we intend to capitalize on our growing Joe’s Jeans® brand and solidify its position in the consumer marketplace. Since Joe’s Jeans was established in 2001, the brand is recognized in the premium denim industry for its quality, fit and fashion-forward designs for denim and denim related apparel products. By focusing our resources on our Joe’s Jeans® brand, we believe that we can position the brand as a resource for the fashion conscious consumer through the introduction of a women’s sportswear lifestyle collection and the launch of a men’s denim line. Consistent with our intent to focus on our Joe’s Jeans® brand, in January 2006, our Board of Directors decided to explore strategic initiatives related to our business, including the possible sale of some or all of our assets. This decision was made, in part, due to a decline in sales in our private label apparel due to changes in customer sourcing strategy. As a result, we believed that our private label sales would continue to decrease in fiscal 2006 and decided to explore opportunities to sell and/or exit these and our other assets. Our Board also directed us to hire an investment bank to assist us in evaluating these initiatives. Further for fiscal 2005, we recognized an impairment charge of $12,572,000 for goodwill related to our private label business. This impairment charge resulted in a significant loss from continuing operations of $16,429,000 for fiscal 2005. We incurred this impairment charge due to future uncertainties related to expected net sales from existing private label customers, the cost of operations related to private label and projected cash flows from operations. Concurrent with this decision, Marc Crossman, our President and Chief Financial Officer was appointed to Interim Chief Executive Officer upon the decision by our Board of Directors to terminate Jay Furrow. We cannot assure you that this process will result in a specific transaction or that this change will result in profitability for us, but we believe that exploring strategic initiatives is the best method to maximize the value of our existing assets. We do not expect to disclose developments related to this exploration of a strategic alternative for us until a definitive agreement has been approved by our Board of Directors. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a further discussion on our strategic initiatives and methods that we intend to employ to help fund our operating expenses and working capital for fiscal 2006. On February 6, 2006, we announced that on February 2, 2006 we received a Nasdaq staff deficiency notice indicating that, due to the resignation of one of our members, we were no longer in compliance with Nasdaq Rule 4350(c)(1), which requires a majority of our Board of Directors to be independent. We have been afforded a grace period until the earlier of our next annual meeting of stockholders or January 31, 2007 to regain compliance. We intend to regain compliance within the grace period; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to find a suitable person to fill the vacancy on our Board of Directors. See “Risk Factors - If we cannot meet the Nasdaq Capital Market maintenance requirements and Nasdaq rules, Nasdaq may delist our common stock, which could negatively affect the 2 price of the common stock and your ability to sell the common stock” for a additional discussion on this and other Nasdaq maintenance requirements related to our common stock. Principal Products and Revenue Sources Our principal products are our Joe’s Jeans® branded apparel products and private label denim and denim-related apparel products. Our net sales for the previous three fiscal years are as follows: (in thousands) 2005 2004 2003 Joe’s Jeans $ 33,304 $ 18,296 $ 11,476 Other Branded 2,616 8,420 5,917 Private Label 72,670 77,992 51,710 Total $ 108,590 $ 104,708 $ 69,103 Joe’s Jeans® Our branded apparel business historically has been conducted through our Joe’s and IAA subsidiaries. However, presently, our only active branded apparel line is Joe’s Jeans® which is operated under our Joe’s subsidiary and produced pursuant to a license agreement from JD Design LLC, or JD Design. For fiscal 2005, our Joe’s Jeans® brand represented 31% of our total net sales compared to 17% for fiscal 2004. Our Joe’s product line includes denim jeans, pants, shirts, sweaters, jackets and other apparel products and are sold domestically and internationally. Joe’s products are primarily marketed to U.S. retailers through third party showrooms located in New York and Los Angeles and international retailers in Paris, Tokyo and Germany. Joe’s product line typically includes women’s denim jeans comprised of eight fits. Joe’s fits are named and referred to by the trade as follows: the Honey, the Lover, the Muse, the Provocateur, the Rocker, the Socialite, the Starlet and the Twiggy. Joe’s women’s line also includes denim skirts, denim jackets, leather jackets, knit shirts, and sweaters. In fiscal 2004, Joe’s introduced a premium line of denim, with premium fabrics, washes and detailing, for the luxury market. Suggested retail prices for Joe’s products range from $140 to $300 for denim and fashion pants and from $75 to $92 for tops. Joe’s re-launched its men’s denim line for Spring 2006 with first sales expected to be delivered in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. In October 2005, we entered into an amendment with JD Design that granted JD Design the right to exploit the Joe’s marks for children’s clothes in exchange for a 5% commission to us on net sales. We decided to release these rights, in part, because developing a collection of children’s clothes is currently not part of our strategic focus on our denim and denim-related apparel operations. JD Design expects to begin shipping its first sales of children’s products at the end of January 2006. Other Branded Apparel In fiscal 2004 and continuing through fiscal 2005, we terminated several of our branded apparel license agreements. In fiscal 2004, we exited urban branded apparel by terminating our license agreements for Fetish™ and Shago®. In addition, in fiscal 2004, we terminated our license for Hot Wheels® branded apparel, which did not have any sales. In July 2005, we terminated the license agreement associated with the Betsey Johnson® brand. During fiscal 2005, we also operated a company-owned and designed branded denim and denim-related apparel, indie™. The indie™ line consists of women’s five-pocket denim jeans and skirts, 3 tops and jackets utilizing our in-house denim design, production and marketing personnel. However, due to lower than expected sales, in January 2006, we announced our intention to sell and/or exit operations for indie™. Private Label Apparel We also design and develop private label apparel products under other non-licensed arrangements, such as purchase orders. Our private label product line consists of denim jeans for both the men’s and women’s market. The private label business represents our largest source of sales. Through private label arrangements, we sell denim products primarily to AEO and Target. In fiscal 2003, we acquired our AEO business as a result of an acquisition of the Blue Concept Division from two of our stockholders, Hubert Guez and Paul Guez and their entity, Azteca Production International, Inc, or Azteca. Between 2004 and 2005, our private label net sales decreased 7% due to high customer denim inventory levels and changes to their sourcing strategy. Due to this decrease in net sales as well as low gross margins associated with private label apparel products, we are exploring strategic initiatives with respect to this and our other assets. Product Design, Development and Sourcing Joe’s Jeans® Our product development for Joe’s branded apparel is managed internally by a team of designers led by Joe Dahan, who are responsible for the creation, development and coordination of the product group offerings within each collection. Joe’s typically develops four collections per year for spring, summer, fall and holiday, with certain basic styles offered throughout the year. Joe Dahan is an instrumental part of Joe’s design process. The loss of Joe Dahan could potentially have a material adverse impact on Joe’s, however, we believe we could find alternative sources for the development and design of Joe’s products. The termination of employment of Joe Dahan would not affect our license agreement with JD Design. See “Risk Factors — The loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business.” Joe’s products are sourced through domestic contractors generally located in the Los Angeles area and we are currently evaluating other production sources abroad, primarily in Mexico. We control the production schedules in order to ensure quality and timely deliveries. We warehouse, pack and ship our Joe’s Jeans® products in our warehouse, which we share under a verbal arrangement with Azteca and its affiliates for distribution directly to retailers. We purchase fabric for Joe’s products both domestically and internationally from independent vendors. Our raw materials are principally blends of fabrics and yarns and are available from multiple sources. We have not experienced any material shortage of raw material for our needs. We are currently exploring alternate inventory strategies for the remainder of fiscal 2006 designed to improve our gross margins. However, there can be no assurance that a change in sourcing will result in enhanced profit margins, similar quality or timely deliveries, but we do believe that this change can be beneficial for growth of our Joe’s brand. Other Branded Apparel For other branded apparel lines, we generally developed those products internally or in conjunction with design personnel. Our Betsey Johnson® products were sourced from domestic contractors generally located in the Los Angeles area and our indie™ products were sourced from Mexico generally through Azteca. Generally, we warehouse, pack and ship our products to our warehouse, which we share under a verbal arrangement with Azteca and its affiliates for distribution directly to the retailer. We purchased fabric for these apparel lines both domestically and internationally from independent vendors. 4 Private Label Apparel Our private label apparel product development is managed by our staff or in conjunction with the design personnel of the customer. Our private label products are sourced from Mexico through Azteca and its affiliates, through independent contractors or through independent overseas contractors. General Product Sourcing Historically, we have relied on two of our stockholders, Hubert Guez and Paul Guez and certain of their affiliated companies, including, Azteca and Commerce Investment Group LLC, or Commerce, and their ability to source and supply our private label products. In order to enter into the denim apparel and design business for the private and branded label market, we developed a strategic relationship with Hubert Guez and Paul Guez, Azteca and Commerce and beginning in the summer of 2000, we entered into a series of transactions with them. The Guez brothers and their affiliated companies have in the aggregate more than fifty years of experience in the apparel industry with a specialty in denim apparel and related products. We believe this relationship has had numerous tangible benefits for us. In connection with this reliance, we utilize Azteca’s ability under a purchase order supply arrangement. We do not have any long-term supply agreements with any third party contractors, but we believe that there are a number of overseas and domestic contractors that could fulfill our requirements. As a result of our purchase order supply arrangement with Azteca, during fiscal 2005, our apparel division purchased from Azteca and its affiliates, approximately $63,500,000, or 68%, of our products compared to $66,600,000, or 77%, of our products in fiscal 2004. We believe that there are currently alternative sources from which to outsource the production of our apparel products. However, in the event the economic climate or other factors result in significant reduction in the number of local contractors in the Los Angeles area or from our relationship with Azteca and its affiliates in Mexico, our business could be negatively impacted. At this time, we believe that we would be able to find alternative sources for the production of our products if this were to occur, however, no assurances can be given that a transition could be completed without a disruption to our business. We generally purchase our products in U.S. dollars. However, as a result of using overseas suppliers, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. Certain of our apparel purchases in the international markets will be subject to the risks associated with the importation of these type products. See “Business-Imports and Import Restrictions.” Our raw materials are principally blends of fabrics and yarns. Raw materials are available from multiple sources. We have not experienced any material shortage of raw material for our needs. While we attempt to mitigate our exposure to manufacturing risk, the use of independent contractors does reduce our control over production and delivery and exposes us to the usual risks of sourcing products from independent suppliers. Transactions with our foreign manufacturers and suppliers are subject to the typical risks of doing business abroad, generally, such as the cost of transportation and the imposition of import duties and restrictions. The United States and the countries in which our products are manufactured may, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions, or adjust presently prevailing quotas, duty or tariff levels, which could affect our operations and our ability to import products at current or increased levels. We cannot predict the likelihood or frequency of any such events occurring. See “Business - Imports and Import Restrictions.” 5 License Agreements and Trademarks The following sets forth certain information concerning the license agreements and/or trademarks held by us during fiscal year 2005: Branded Apparel Marks and Licensor Types of Products Geographical Areas Minimum Royalties Expiration Date Joe’s Jeans® (JD Design LLC) Apparel and accessories Worldwide N/A 2/11/31* Other Branded Apparel Betsey Johnson® (B.J Vines Inc.) Denim and denim related apparel United States, territories & possessions, and Canada Terminated Terminated indie™ (Company owned) All categories Worldwide N/A N/A * This license is renewable at our option for two successive 10 year periods provided we are not in default under the agreement. Joe’s® License Agreement In February 2001, we acquired the license rights to the JD stylized logo and the Joe’s Jeans® mark for all apparel and accessory products from JD Design. The license agreement has a ten-year term with two ten-year renewal periods at our option subject to no material default at the end of each period. Additionally, pursuant to the terms of the agreement, Joe Dahan is to receive a three percent royalty on the net sales of Joe’s® and Joe’s Jeans® products. We believe that we will continue to be able to obtain the renewal of our Joe’s Jeans® license; however, there can be no assurance that other factors may arise that could result in the non-renewal of this license. As the licensee and on behalf of JD Design, we have applied for protection with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, as well as with various foreign jurisdictions, such as Australia, Canada, the European Union, Japan, Korea, India, New Zealand, Russian Federation, Singapore, Switzerland and Turkey for trademark protection for certain of “Joe’s” logos and “Joe’s Jeans” marks for apparel and accessory products. As of November 26, 2005, one trademark registration for the JD logo has been issued in the United States and 30 trademark registrations have been issued internationally, primarily under the Madrid Protocol. We continue to prosecute 6 pending trademark applications in the United States and 21 pending trademark applications internationally that we believe are necessary to protect these trademarks fully. Betsey Johnson® License Agreement On July 22, 2005, we entered into a termination settlement agreement and mutual release with B.J. Vines, licensor of the Betsey Johnson® apparel brand, to provide for the immediate termination of the license agreement under which IAA had the exclusive right to design, market, and distribute women’s denim and coordinating denim related apparel under the Betsey Johnson® brand name in the United States and Canada. Because of lower than anticipated sales, the parties believed that the termination of the agreement was in the best interest of the parties. 6 In exchange for the early termination of the license agreement and a general release by both parties, IAA paid to B.J. Vines a one-time payment in the amount of $350,000. This one time payment represented a significantly lesser amount than the minimum guaranteed royalties that IAA would have otherwise been required to pay during the remaining three years of the license. In connection with the termination, IAA has no further obligations under the license agreement, and all ancillary documents, which included a personal guarantee by the original licensee, were also terminated. indie™ In June 2004, we announced the launch and initial development of our new line of company-owned and designed branded denim and denim-related apparel, indie™. The indie™ line is a collection of women’s five-pocket denim jeans and skirts, tops and jackets utilizing our in-house denim design, production and marketing personnel. Our first shipment of indie™ shipped in January 2005. To date, we have experienced lower than anticipated net sales of our indie™ products. As part of our desire and strategy to focus our resources on our Joe’s Jeans® brand, in January 2006, we announced our intention to sell and/or exit operations for indie™. However, we continue to own the trademark applications that have been issued internationally and continue to prosecute the pending applications in the United States and internationally to protect these trademarks fully. Other Terminated License Agreements During fiscal 2004, we terminated three other branded apparel licenses and one accessory license as a result of our decision to exit the urban apparel market and shift our focus and resources on denim and denim-related apparel. However, throughout the course of fiscal 2005, we continued to have some limited sales of excess inventory pursuant to our settlement agreements. As a result, these limited net sales of Fetish™ and Shago® branded apparel are included in net sales of other branded apparel for fiscal 2005. Sales of terminated Bongo® accessories are included in our discontinued operations discussion. We have no further obligations under our settlement agreements other than customary continuing rights related to indemnification, audits and maintenance of books and records. Sales and Distribution Agreements Joe’s Jeans® Domestically, our Joe’s Jeans® branded apparel products are sold to retailers and specialty stores through independent third party showrooms located in Los Angeles and New York with representatives located throughout the United States where retailers review the latest collections offered by Joe’s and place orders. The showroom representatives provide us with purchase orders from the retailers and other specialty store buyers. Pursuant to our arrangement with each of these showrooms, we pay sales commissions at an agreed upon percentage of sales less discounts, returns and other credit allowances. In addition, pursuant to our license agreement, we pay to JD Design a royalty of 3% on net sales. We warehouse, pack and ship our Joe’s products directly to the retailer or specialty store from our warehouse. Our domestic net sales increased 97% from fiscal 2004 to fiscal 2005. Internationally, we sell our Joe’s Jeans® branded apparel products through a Master Distribution Agreement, or MDA, with Beyond Blue Inc., or Beyond Blue, a Los Angeles-based company that specializes in international consulting, distribution and licensing for apparel products. Our international net sales increased 36% from fiscal 2004 to fiscal 2005. Pursuant to the MDA, Joe’s granted to Beyond Blue the exclusive distribution rights for Joe’s products outside the United States. Under the MDA’s terms, Beyond Blue has established sub-distributors and sales agents in certain international markets through sub-distribution arrangements and has assumed our obligations under the a prior agreement with Itochu for 7 the Japanese market. The term of the MDA is three years, subject to Beyond Blue purchasing certain minimum amounts of product from Joe’s during three annual periods, with the first annual period consisting of 18 months. Under the terms of the MDA, we sell our Joe’s products to Beyond Blue at 22.5% discount from our wholesale price, which they then re-sell to various retailers and sub-distributors internationally. In addition, we have amended the MDA to provide Beyond Blue a right to renew for a two year period, subject to satisfactory fulfillment of its existing obligations at the expiration of the current term and subject to purchasing certain minimum amount of Joe’s product during the renewal period. For the Japanese market only, on July 1, 2003, Joe’s entered into a Distribution and Licensing Agreement with Itochu, pursuant to which Itochu obtained certain manufacturing and licensing rights for the Joe’s® and Joe’s Jeans® marks in Japan. Through an assignment of our rights under the Distribution and Licensing Agreement with Itochu to Beyond Blue, we continue to sell product in Japan through this arrangement. We believe this arrangement with Itochu is better suited to market and distribute Joe’s and Joe’s Jeans products in Japan in accordance with cultural tastes and norms. The Distribution and Licensing Agreement grants Itochu certain rights with respect to the manufacture, distribution, sale and/or advertisement of certain Joe’s® apparel products, or Joe’s Products, Certain of the products will be purchased directly from Beyond Blue pursuant to the assignment agreement with Itochu obligated to purchase a minimum of $5.75 million of Joe’s products over the 42 month term of the agreement. Additionally, Itochu will have the right to develop, produce and distribute certain apparel products bearing the Joe’s® and Joe’s Jeans® marks for which Joe’s shall receive a running royalty payment for each contract year equal to the aggregate amount of six percent of the net sales of all bottoms for both men and women, and five percent of the net sales of all tops for both men and women. Other Branded Apparel For our other branded apparel lines, such as indie™ and Betsey Johnson®, we utilize a combination of internal sales, independent sales representative or third party showroom arrangements to meet with retailers to review the latest collections offered under the respective brand and place orders. In February 2005, we entered into a Master Distribution Agreement similar to our Joe’s MDA with Beyond Blue for the international distribution of our indie™ products. However, our international sales under this agreement were limited during fiscal 2005 and due in part to this fact, we intend to sell or exit operations for our indie™ branded apparel products. Private Label Apparel Our private label apparel products are sold to our private label customers, such as AEO or Target pursuant to a purchase order arrangement. Generally, our private label products are shipped from the third party manufacturing facility to a third party facility or directly to the customer. Advertising, Marketing and Promotion Our advertising campaign for our Joe’s Jeans® brand has been limited to strategic placement of advertising in areas of high concentration of fashion advertising. We have marketed through billboard advertisement in Los Angeles, California, and have leased advertising space on the tops of taxi cabs in New York City. These advertising spaces are outfitted with Joe’s unique and eye-catching ads which have featured black and white imagery of womens’ silhouettes. 8 Sales through existing retail channels are enhanced by visual merchandising. For example, many of our customer’s stores have denim focus areas located within a department that are dedicated to selling and showcasing our Joe’s Jeans® merchandise on a year round basis. Customers Joe’s Jeans® Our Joe’s branded label apparel products are sold to consumers through high-end department stores and boutiques located throughout the world. We currently sell our Joe’s® apparel to domestic retailers such as Barneys New York, Bloomingdale’s, Macy’s, Henri Bendel, Bergdorf Goodman, Nordstrom, and Saks Fifth Avenue, and specialty retailers such as American Rag, Anthropology, Atrium, Lisa Klein, Ron Herman, Fred Segal, and Scoop NYC in the United States. We currently sell internationally to retailers such as Galleries Lafayette, Le Bon Marche, and Le Printemps in France, Barney’s Japan, Isetan, and Mitsukoshi in Japan, Harvey Nichols and Selfridges & Co. in the United Kingdom, Ztampz in Hong Kong and Gio Moretti in Italy. The Joe’s Jeans® website (www.joesjeans.com) has been established to promote and advance the brand’s image and to allow consumers to review and purchase online the latest collection of products. The information available on Joe’s Jeans® website is not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report. Joe’s currently uses both online and print advertising to create brand awareness with customers as well as consumers. For fiscal 2005, Joe’s three largest customers accounted for approximately 43% of its net sales. While, this is a high percentage of sales, attributable to three customers, we believe that we would be able to find alternative customers to purchase Joe’s products in the event of the loss of any of these existing customers. Other Branded Apparel During fiscal 2005, we sold our Betsey Johnson® branded apparel to consumers through boutiques, including Betsey Johnson® specialty stores domestically. We sold our indie™ branded apparel to consumers through high-end department stores and specialty boutiques both domestically and internationally. During fiscal 2004, we ceased the production of our non-denim urban branded apparel lines for Shago®, Fetish™ and Hot Wheels® branded apparel. During fiscal 2005, we had limited net sales of our remaining Shago® and Fetish™ branded inventory to certain pre-approved discount retailers, such as Loehmann’s, Carlin’s and Value City. We do not enter into long-term agreements with any of our customers. Instead, we receive individual purchase order commitments from our customers. A decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from us, or to change their manner of doing business with us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Risk Factors—A substantial portion of our net sales and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers.” 9 Private Label Apparel During fiscal 2005, we developed and distributed private label apparel products primarily for AEO, Target Corporation’s Mossimo division, and to a limited extent, Kmart Corporation, with whom we are currently not doing business. During fiscal 2005, private label apparel sales to AEO, Target and Kmart represented approximately 49%, 11% and 1%, respectively, of our net sales. Seasonality of Business and Working Capital Products are designed and marketed primarily for four principal selling seasons, Spring, Summer, Fall/Back-to-School and Winter/Holiday. Typically, we have approximately a twelve week turnaround time between the time we book an order and when we ship it. Our primary booking periods for the retail sales seasons are as follows: Retail Sales Season Primary Booking Period Spring September-November Summer November-March Fall/Back-to-School February-May Winter/Holiday June-August We have historically experienced and expect to continue to experience seasonal fluctuations in sales and net earnings. Historically, a significant amount of our net sales are realized during the third and fourth quarter when we ship our orders taken during earlier months. In the second quarter in order to prepare for peak net sales that occur during the third quarter, we build inventory levels, which results in higher liquidity needs as compared to the other quarters in the fiscal year. If sales were materially different from seasonal norms during the third quarter, our annual operating results could be materially affected. Accordingly, our results for the individual quarters are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the entire year. During fiscal 2005, we utilized financing agreements entered into by our subsidiaries with CIT Commercial Services, a unit of CIT Group, Inc., or CIT, for the factoring of our account receivables and borrowing against certain eligible inventory to provide us with our working capital needs. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources” for further discussion of our financing agreements with CIT. Based upon our historical growth and various strategic initiatives currently being considered, we may need to obtain additional working capital in order to meet our operational needs in fiscal 2006. We believe that we will be able to address these needs by implementing certain strategic initiatives to reduce our operating expenses and focus our remaining efforts and resources on maximizing the profitability of our Joe’s Jeans® branded apparel line. We also expect to fund our operational needs by relying on the availability of funds offered to us under our financing agreements with CIT. See “Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a further discussion of our capital needs. We believe that any additional capital, to the extent needed, may be obtained through short-term working capital loans. However, there can be no assurance that this or other financing will be available if needed. The inability of us to be able to fulfill any interim working capital requirements would force us to constrict our operations. 10 Credit and Collection Our current practice is to extend credit to a majority of our larger customers, which is based on such factors as credit approval by CIT under our factoring arrangements, past credit history, reputation of creditworthiness within our industry, and timelines of payments made to us, generally without requiring collateral. A percentage of our customers are required to pay by either cash before delivery, credit card or cash on delivery, or C.O.D., which is also based on such factors as lack of credit history, reputation (or lack thereof) within our industry and/or prior negative payment history. For those customers to whom we extend credit, typical terms are net 30 to 60 days. Based on industry practices applicable to our business, financial awareness of the customers with whom we conduct business, and business experience of our industry, our management exercises professional judgment in determining which customers will be extended credit. We are exposed to some collection risk for receivables which were factored with recourse where CIT did not accept the credit risk. However, the aggregate amount of exposure is generally low and, therefore, we believe that the credit risk associated with our extension of credit is minimal. Backlog Although we may, at any given time, have significant business booked in advance of ship dates, customers’ purchase orders are typically filled and shipped within two to six weeks. As of November 26, 2005, we had backlog of $9,600,000 for Joe’s Jeans®, $585,000 for other branded products, and $11,300,000 for private label products. The amount of outstanding customer purchase orders at a particular time is influenced by numerous factors, including the product mix, timing of the receipt and processing of customer purchase orders, shipping schedules for the product and specific customer shipping windows. Due to these factors, a comparison of outstanding customer purchase orders from period to period is not necessarily meaningful and may not be indicative of eventual actual shipments. Competition The apparel industry in which we operate is fragmented and highly competitive in the United States and on a worldwide basis. We compete with a large number of apparel companies similar to ours for consumers. Our primary branded competitors include Seven for All Mankind, Citizens of Humanity and Rock & Republic. In addition, we compete with manufacturers in Mexico and China for private label apparel products. We do not hold a dominant competitive position, and our ability to sell our products is dependent upon the anticipated popularity of our designs, the brands our products bear, the price and quality of our products and our ability to meet our customers’ delivery schedules. We believe that we are competitive with companies producing goods of like quality and pricing, and that new product development, product identity through marketing, promotions and competitive price points will allow us to maintain our competitive position. However, many of our competitors may possess greater financial, technical and other resources than us. Furthermore, the intense competition and the rapid changes in consumer preferences constitute significant risk factors in our operations. As we expand globally, we will continue to encounter additional sources of competition. See “Risk Factors—We face intense competition in the worldwide apparel industry.” Imports and Import Restrictions Our transactions with our foreign manufacturers and suppliers are subject to the risks of doing business abroad. Imports into the United States are affected by, among other things, the cost of transportation and the imposition of import duties and restrictions. The countries in which our products might be manufactured may, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions, or adjust presently prevailing quotas, duty or tariff levels, which could affect our operations and our ability to 11 import products at current or increased levels. We cannot predict the likelihood or frequency of any such events occurring. The enactment of any additional duties, quotas or restrictions could result in increases in the cost of our products generally and might adversely affect our sales and profitability. Our import operations are subject to constraints imposed by bilateral textile agreements between the United States and a number of foreign countries, including Hong Kong, China, Taiwan and Korea. Some of these agreements impose quotas on the amount and type of goods that can be imported into the United States from these countries. Such agreements also allow the United States to impose, at any time, restraints on the importation of categories of merchandise that, under the terms of the agreements, are not subject to specified limits. Our imported products are also subject to United States customs duties and, in the ordinary course of business, we are from time to time subject to claims by the United States Customs Service for duties and other charges. Because our foreign manufacturers are located at greater geographic distances from us than our domestic manufacturers, we are generally required to allow greater lead time for foreign orders, which reduces our manufacturing flexibility. Foreign imports are also affected by the high cost of transportation into the United States. In addition to the factors outlined above, our future import operations may be adversely affected by political instability resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries, any significant fluctuation in the value of the dollar against foreign currencies and restrictions on the transfer of funds. Discontinued Operations Leaseall Management Inc. During the third quarter of fiscal 2004, we made the decision to sell our commercial rental property that served as our former headquarters consisting of four separate buildings located in Springfield, Tennessee and engaged a commercial real estate broker to assist us with the sale and auction of these buildings. On January 31, 2006, we sold one building for $210,000 and on January 26, 2006, we auctioned the other three buildings for gross proceeds of $531,000 in the aggregate. We expect to receive the net proceeds from the auction of these buildings in mid-February 2006. Craft & Accessory Our craft and accessory business represents our historical line of business, the business upon which we were founded, and has been conducted through our Innovo subsidiary, headquartered in Knoxville, Tennessee. Through Innovo, we designed, developed and marketed accessory consumer products such as fashion handbags, wallets, backpacks, bags, belts, hats and scarves for department stores, mass merchandisers, specialty chain stores and private label customers. Additionally, we marketed craft products including tote bags and aprons to mass merchandisers and craft specialty stores. Innovo’s products generally were accompanied by one of Innovo’s own logos such as Daily Denim™, Dragon Fly Denim™, Clear Gear™, Friendship™ and Tote Works™, the brand of a private label customer, or the brand of a third party licensor such as Bongo®, Shago® and Fetish™. After the termination of our branded accessory licenses for Bongo®, Shago® and Fetish™, we began to re-evaluate the remaining revenue streams within the craft and accessory business segment. As a result, we found that this asset did not fit with our strategic plan to focus our principal business activities on denim and denim-related apparel. On May 17, 2005, we completed the sale of the assets of our craft and accessory segment of operations conducted through our Innovo subsidiary. 12 Human Resources As of February 8, 2006, we had 124 full-time employees and we consider our relationships with our employees to be good. Financial Information about Geographical Areas See “Note 14 – Segment Reporting and Operations by Geographical Area” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of financial information about geographical areas. Available Information Our World Wide Web address is www.innovogroup.com, and we maintain a website at that address. We make available on or through our World Wide Web website, without charge, our Annual Report, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Although we maintain a website at www.innovogroup.com, we do not intend that the information available through our website be incorporated into this Annual Report. In addition, any materials filed with, or furnished to, the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549 or viewed on line at www.sec.gov. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Executive Officers The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers: Name Age Position Marc B. Crossman 34 Interim Chief Executive Officer, (Principal Executive Officer), President, Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) and Director Richard A. Quiroga 45 Vice President of Finance (Principal Accounting Officer) Marc B. Crossman has served as our Chief Financial Officer since March 2003 and a member of our Board of Directors since January 1999. In September 2004, Mr. Crossman was appointed to the position of President and in January 2006, Mr. Crossman was appointed to the position of Interim Chief Executive Officer. Richard A. Quiroga has served as our Vice President of Finance and Principal Accounting Officer since August 2004. 13 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our operating results, our financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Annual Report. Risk Factors Relating to our Common Stock Our common stock price is extremely volatile and may decrease rapidly. The trading price and volume of our common stock has historically been subject to wide fluctuation in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: • annual and quarterly variations in actual or anticipated operating results, • operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analyst and investors, • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors, • changes in market valuations of other denim apparel companies, • announcements of new product lines by us or our competitors, announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions or dispositions of assets, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, • additions or departures of key personnel or members of our board of directors, and • general conditions in the apparel industry. In the 52 week period prior to February 8, 2006, the closing price of our common stock has ranged from $0.71 to $6.45. In addition, stock markets generally have experienced extreme price and volume trading volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may significantly and negatively affect the market price of our common stock. If we cannot meet the Nasdaq Capital Market maintenance requirements and Nasdaq rules, Nasdaq may delist our common stock, which could negatively affect the price of the common stock and your ability to sell the common stock. In the future, we may not be able to meet the listing maintenance requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market, formerly known as the Small Cap Market, and Nasdaq rules, which require, among other things, minimum net tangible assets of $2 million and a minimum bid price for our common stock of $1.00, and a requirement that a majority of our Board of Directors be independent, as defined in the Nasdaq rules. Our bid price has been below $1.00 in the past. If the bid price of our common stock drops below $1.00 and remains at that level for more than 30 consecutive trading days, we will be in violation of Nasdaq’s listing standards. 14 On February 6, 2006, we announced that on February 2, 2006, we received a Nasdaq staff deficiency notice indicating that due to the resignation of one of our members, we were no longer in compliance with the Nasdaq Rule 4350(c)(1), which requires a majority of our Board of Directors to be independent. We have been afforded a grace period until the earlier of our next annual meeting of stockholders or January 31, 2007 to regain compliance. We intend to regain compliance within the grace period; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to find a suitable person to fill the vacancy on our Board of Directors. If we are unable to satisfy Nasdaq criteria for maintaining listing, our common stock would be subject to delisting. Trading, if any, of our common stock would thereafter be conducted in the over-the-counter market, in the so-called “pink sheets” or on the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., or NASD, “electronic bulletin board.” As a consequence of any such delisting, a stockholder would likely find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the prices of our common stock. We are controlled by our management and other related parties. Our executive officers and directors beneficially own approximately 19.2% of our common stock, including options exercisable within 60 days of February 8, 2006, in the aggregate. More specifically, the Chairman of our Board, Sam Furrow, beneficially owns approximately 9.7% of our common stock, and Jay Furrow, our former Chief Executive Officer, current member of our Board and the son of Sam Furrow, beneficially owns approximately 5.4% of our common stock. In addition, we have some stockholders with whom we have had certain relationships and entered into related party transactions. For example, we have granted certain rights in 2000 in connection with investments made by Commerce and other investors affiliated with Hubert Guez and Paul Guez, or collectively, the Commerce Group, and Mr. Joseph Mizrachi. Based upon an investor rights agreement, each of the Commerce Group and Mr. Mizrachi has the right to designate three individuals and one individual, respectively, for election to our board of directors. If any or all of the Commerce Group or Mizrachi designated directors are elected, then our board has the obligation to appoint at least one Commerce and/or Mizrachi designated director to each of its committees. As of February 21, 2003, the Mizrachis ceased to be the beneficial owners of more than 5% of our securities. Based upon a Schedule 13D/A filed by Paul Guez on October 7, 2005, the Guez brothers, including entities owned or controlled by them, beneficially own approximately 11% of our common stock in the aggregate. On or about April 22, 2005, Mr. Hubert Guez ceased to be the beneficial owner of more than 5% of our securities. Because of their relationships with us or the investor rights agreement, the Mizrachis and the Guez brothers may be in a position to influence the election of our board of directors and thus, may be in a position to control our affairs. Our bylaws also limit the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders. These bylaw provisions could have the effect of discouraging a takeover of us, and therefore may adversely affect the market price and liquidity of our securities. We are also subject to a Delaware statute regulating business combinations that may hinder or delay a change in control. The anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware statute may adversely affect the market price and liquidity of our securities. Risk Factors Relating to our Operations Our operations could be dependent on our ability to execute on our exploration of strategic initiatives for our business. In January 2006, we announced that our Board of Directors decided to explore strategic initiatives related to our business, including the possible sale of some or all of our assets. However, we cannot assure you that this process will result in a specific transaction or that this change will result in profitability for us. 15 We do not expect to disclose developments related to this exploration of a strategic alternative for us until a definitive agreement has been approved by our Board of Directors. While we believe that the exploration of strategic initiatives for us may ultimately enhance stockholder value, we cannot assure you that entering into a specific transaction or transactions related to our assets will result in enhanced economic value or profitability. Due to our negative cash flows, we could be required to cut back or stop operations if we are unable to raise or obtain needed funding. Our ability to continue operations will depend on (i) our ability to obtain cash for working capital by utilizing a credit arrangement on our receivables and inventory with CIT; (ii) our positive cash flow, if any, from future operations; and (iii) our ability to reduce our operating expenses as a result of carrying out our strategic initiative through the sale of some or all of our assets. One of our primary methods to obtain the cash necessary for operating needs is through our availability under our accounts receivable factoring agreements and inventory security agreements, or the Factoring Facilities, with CIT. However, under the Factoring Facilities, CIT has the ability, in its discretion at any time or from time to time, to adjust or revise any limits on the amount of loans or advances made to us. As of November 26, 2005, our loan balance with CIT was $11,270,000 of which $9,148,000 represented factored receivables with CIT. Because of this loan balance and continued losses, CIT temporarily reduced our cash availability under our Factoring Facilities to 80% from 85% of accounts receivable and placed a $1,000,000 cap on our availability under our inventory security agreements. To date, we have been able to work within these temporary revised limits and expect to be able restore our position and availability. Our factoring arrangements also may be terminated by CIT upon 60 days prior written notice, or immediately upon the occurrence of an event of default. Because our negative cash flows could result in an event of default, we may be forced to pay our liability with CIT, which could include CIT exercising its right to take possession of the pledged collateral, which includes raw materials through finished goods and receivables. Although we have undertaken numerous measures to increase sales, control inventory costs, operate more efficiently and implement a strategic initiative with certain assumptions so that we may be able to continue to fund our operations for fiscal 2006, we may continue to experience losses and negative cash flows. We can give you no assurance that we will in fact operate profitably in the future or that we can restore our availability under our Factoring Facilities with CIT. The seasonal nature of our business makes management more difficult, severely reduces cash flow and liquidity during parts of the year and could force us to curtail our operations. Our business is seasonal. The majority of our marketing and sales activities take place from late fall to early spring. Our greatest volume of shipments and sales occur from late spring through the summer, which coincides with our second and third fiscal quarters, which also forces us to build-up inventories during our first and second fiscal quarters when our cash flow is weakest. Historically speaking, our cash flow is strongest in the third and fourth fiscal quarters. Unfavorable economic conditions affecting retailers during the fall and holiday seasons in any year could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the year. We are likely to experience periods of negative cash flow throughout each year, including, a drop-off in business commencing each December, which could force us to curtail operations if adequate liquidity is not available. We cannot assure you that the effects of such seasonality will diminish in the future. We face risks associated with constantly changing fashion trends, including consumer’s response to our Joe’s Jeans® branded apparel. Our success will depend on our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond to changing consumer demand and fashion trends in a timely manner, in particular, consumer demand for our Joe’s Jeans® branded apparel. Any failure on our part to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing 16 consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect the acceptance of our products and leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities in the marketplace. If that occurs, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which may negatively affect our ability to achieve profitability. At the same time, a focus on tight management of inventory may result, from time to time, in our not having an adequate supply of products to meet consumer demand and may cause us to lose sales. In addition, we face risks associated with delivering an entire collection of items, including, fashion t-shirts, tops, sweaters and bottoms in fabric other than denim, of fashion-forward apparel items bearing the Joe’s Jeans® brand name. We attempt to minimize our risk associated with these products through early order commitments by retailers. We must generally place production orders with manufacturers before we have received all of a season’s orders and orders may be cancelled by retailers before shipment. Therefore, if we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to consumer preferences, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories or lower profit margins, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business could be negatively impacted by a change in consumer demand for denim in the marketplace. Denim, including premium denim, a term which denim jeans with a retail price of $100 or more are sometimes referred to as by the media, has been increasingly popular and growing in sales over the past few years as a consumer discretionary purchase. Because of consumer demand, our products, in particular Joe’s Jeans®, experienced growth during fiscal 2005. However, because consumer demands and fashion trends are subject to cyclical variations as well as the fact that the general economy and future economic prospects can often affect consumer spending habits, a change in any one of the following: • consumer demand, • consumer purchases of discretionary items, • the economy in general, or • fashion trends, any of which may result in lower sales, excess inventories or lower profit margins for our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results operations and financial condition. A portion of our net sales and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers. Our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 81% of our net sales during fiscal 2005, and in particular, one private label apparel customer accounted for 49% of our net sales during fiscal 2005. We do not enter into any type of long-term agreements or firm commitment orders with any of our customers, whether branded or private label. Instead, we enter into a number of individual purchase order commitments with our customers. A decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or store or any other significant customer, including our limited number of private label customers, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from us, or to change their manner of doing business with us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations if we were unable to find an alternative customer for our products in a timely manner. 17 We rely on our Joe’s Jean ® License Agreement to generate a portion of our revenues. Our sales are dependent to a degree upon our Joe’s Jeans® license. Although we believe we will continue to meet all of our material obligations under this license agreement, there can be no assurance that such license rights will continue or will be available for renewal beyond the rights that we have under the agreement. As of November 26, 2005, we generated $33,304,000 in net sales of product under our Joe’s Jeans® license with a gross profit of $10,505,000 compared to $72,670,000 in net sales of our private label products with a gross profit of $11,045,000. As a result, 48% of our gross profit for fiscal year 2005 was attributable to sales of our Joe’s Jeans® branded apparel, making us dependent to a degree on these higher margin sales. Our business could be negatively impacted by the financial health of our retail customers. We sell our product primarily to retail, private label and distribution companies around the world based on pre-qualified payment terms. Financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail business with that customer, in addition to the customer’s decision to decrease the level of its orders, to cancel orders previously placed in advance of shipment dates or to cease carrying our products. We may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer’s receivables. We are dependent primarily on lines of credit that we establish from time to time with customers, and should a substantial number of customers become unable to pay their respective debts as they become due, we may be unable to collect some or all of the monies owed by those customers. In recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation or other ownership changes that have resulted in one entity controlling several different stores. This consolidation can result in fewer customers for our products or the closing of some stores or the number of “doors” which carry our products. As a result, the potential for consolidation or ownership changes, closing of retail outlets and less customers could negatively impact sales of our products and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are currently dependent on supply and distribution arrangements with Azteca, Commerce, certain stockholders and their related entities to generate a substantial portion of our revenues. Over the course of our relationship with Azteca, Commerce, Hubert Guez and Paul Guez, we have at certain times entered into supply and distribution arrangements, verbal and written, with them. Azteca and Commerce are entities controlled by Hubert Guez and/or Paul Guez. This relationship is dependent in part with our ability to work with Azteca, Commerce and each of the Guez brothers. The loss of our supply and distribution arrangements with Azteca and/or Commerce could adversely affect our current supply and distribution responsibilities. If we, due to unforeseen circumstances that may occur in the future, are unable to utilize the services of Azteca and/or Commerce for manufacturing, warehouse and distribution, our operations may be adversely affected until we are able to secure manufacturing, warehousing and distribution arrangements with other suppliers that could provide a similar magnitude of services to us. In addition, developing and finding such alternative suppliers for such services may take focus, time and effort from management’s attention to other operations. We outsource a substantial amount of our products to be manufactured to Azteca and/or Commerce. In fiscal 2005, we purchased approximately $63,500,000 in goods and services, or 68% of our total purchases from Azteca and/or Commerce. 18 The loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our executive officers have substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could also adversely affect us. We are currently not protected by a key-man or similar life insurance covering any of our executive officers, nor do we have a written employment agreement with our Interim Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Financial Officer. If, for example, an executive officer should leave us, his services would likely have a substantial impact on our ability to operate, on a daily basis, because we would be forced to find and hire similarly experienced personnel to fill one or more of those positions, and daily operations may suffer temporarily as a result of this immediate void. Furthermore, with respect to Joe’s, while we maintain an employment agreement with Joe Dahan, our president of our Joe’s Jeans subsidiary, should Mr. Dahan leave Joe’s, his experience, design capabilities, and name recognition in the apparel industry could materially adversely affect the operations of Joe’s, because we rely heavily on Mr. Dahan’s capabilities to design, direct and produce product for the Joe’s brand. However, the loss of Mr. Dahan would not terminate our agreement with JD Design pursuant to which we license the use of Joe’s Jeans® and the JD logo. Our business could suffer as a result of manufacturer’s inability to produce our goods on time and to our specifications or if we need to replace manufacturers. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third parties for the manufacture of all of our products. Our products are manufactured to our specifications by both domestic and international manufacturers. During fiscal 2005, approximately 23% of our products, primarily our Joe’s Jeans® products, were manufactured in the United States and approximately 77% of our products, primarily our private label products, were manufactured in foreign countries. The inability of a certain manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because of the seasonality of our business, and the apparel and fashion business in particular, the dates on which customers need and require shipments of products from us are critical, as styles and consumer tastes change so rapidly in the apparel and fashion business, particularly from one season to the next. Further, because quality is a leading factor when customers and retailers accept or reject goods, any decline in quality by our third-party manufacturers could be detrimental not only to a particular order, but also to our future relationship with that particular customer. We compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers. Some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus may have an advantage in the competition for production and import quota capacity. If we experience a significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third-party manufacturing capacity. We cannot assure you that this additional capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us or similar to existing terms which we have with our manufacturers, either from a production standpoint or a financial standpoint. We enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications and other standard industry provisions, but do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. None of the manufacturers we use produces our products exclusively. Should we be forced to replace one or more of our manufacturers, particularly a manufacturer that we may rely upon for a substantial portion of our production needs, such as Commerce, then we may 19 experience an adverse financial impact, or an adverse operational impact, such as being forced to pay increased costs for such replacement manufacturing or delays upon distribution and delivery of our products to our customers, which could cause us to lose customers or lose revenues because of late shipments. If an independent manufacturer or license partner of ours fails to use acceptable labor practices, our business could suffer. While we require our independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we have no control over the ultimate actions of our independent manufacturers. While our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our staff periodically visits and monitors the operations of our independent manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices. The violation of labor or other laws by one of our independent manufacturers, or by one of our license partners, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s or license partner’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In particular, the laws governing garment manufacturers in the State of California impose joint liability upon us and our independent manufacturers for the labor practices of those independent manufacturers. As a result, should one of our independent manufacturers be found in violation of state labor laws, we could suffer financial or other unforeseen consequences. We also utilize the services of a third party independent labor consulting service to conduct on site audits as required by state labor laws to help minimize our risk and exposure to unacceptable labor practice violations. Our trademark and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the United States and some of our products are targets of counterfeiting. We believe that our trademarks, whether licensed or owned by us, and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. In the course of our international expansion, we may, however, experience conflict with various third parties who acquire or claim ownership rights in certain trademarks. We cannot assure that the actions we have taken to establish and protect these trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and proprietary rights of others. Also, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Certain of our products, in particular, our Joe’s Jeans® products, are sometimes the target of counterfeiters. As a result, there are often products that are imitations or “knock-offs” of our Joe’s Jeans® products that can be found in the marketplace or consumers can find products that are confusingly similar to ours. We intend to vigorously defend our trademarks and products bearing our trademarks, however, we cannot assure you that our efforts will be adequate to prosecute and block all sales of infringing products from the marketplace. Our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. Some of these risks include: 20 • the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, and • new tariffs or other barriers to some international markets. We are also subject to general political and economic risks associated with conducting international business, including: • political instability, • changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, and • general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the United States, Mexico, the European Union, Canada, China, Japan, India, Korea or other countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in regulatory or geopolitical policies and other factors may adversely affect our business in the future or may require us to modify our current business practices. We face intense competition in the denim industry. We face a variety of competitive challenges from other domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel producers, some of whom may be significantly larger and more diversified and have greater financial and marketing resources than we have. We do not currently hold a dominant competitive position in any market. We compete with competitors such as Seven for All Mankind, Citizens of Humanity and Rock & Republic, and other larger competitors primarily on the basis of: • anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner, • maintaining favorable brand recognition, • developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers, • appropriately pricing products, • providing strong and effective marketing support, • creating an acceptable value proposition for retail customers, • ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with manufacturers and retailers, and • obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail. Furthermore, some of our competitors are privately held corporations and may have resources available to them that we, as a public company do not have. Therefore, it may be difficult for us to 21 effectively gauge consumer response to our products and how our products are competing with these and other competitors in the marketplace. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any written comments from the Commission staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act which remain unresolved. ITEM 