Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained herein or incorporated herein by reference, the risks and uncertainties and other factors described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and share price and could also cause our future business, financial condition and results of operations to differ materially from the results contemplated by any forward-looking statement we may make herein, in any other document we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or in any press release or other written or oral statement we may make. Please also see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition And Results of Operations—Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" for additional risks and uncertainties applicable to us. Our business is subject to intense competition. Royalties paid to us under our licensing agreements are generally based on a percentage of our licensee's net sales of licensed products. Cherokee, Carole Little and Sideout brand footwear, apparel, and accessories, which are manufactured and sold by both domestic and international wholesalers and retail licensees, are subject to extensive competition by numerous domestic and foreign companies. Such competitors with respect to the Cherokee brand include Levi Strauss & Co., The Gap, Old Navy, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc., Liz Claiborne, Iconix Brand Group Inc., and VF Corp. and private label brands such as Faded Glory, Arizona, and Route 66, developed by retailers. Competitors with respect to the Sideout brand include Quiksilver, Nike and other active wear companies. Factors which shape the competitive environment include quality of garment construction and design, brand name, style and color selection, price and the manufacturer's ability to respond quickly to the retailer on a national basis. In recognition of the increasing trend towards consolidation of retailers and greater emphasis by retailers on the manufacture of private label merchandise, in the United States our business plan focuses on creating strategic alliances with major retailers for their sale of products bearing our brands through the licensing of our trademarks directly to retailers. Therefore, our degree of success is dependent on the strength of our brands, consumer acceptance of and desire for our brands, our licensees' ability to design, manufacture and sell products bearing our brands and to respond to ever-changing consumer demands, and any significant failure by our licensees to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We cannot control the level of resources that our licensees commit to supporting our brands, and our licensees may choose to support other brands to the detriment of ours. There are numerous risk factors that apply to the businesses of retailers that can affect their level of sales of products that carry our brands. Any decline in sales by our licensees can adversely affect our revenues. Factors that may adversely affect retailers include the following: weather; changes in the availability or cost of capital; shifts in the seasonality of shopping patterns; labor strikes or other work interruptions including work interruptions that impact supply chains and transport vendors; the impact of excess retail capacity; changes in the cost of accepting various payment methods and changes in the rate of utilization of these payment methods; material acquisitions or dispositions; investments in new business strategies; the success or failure of significant new business ventures or technologies; actions taken or omitted to be taken by legislative, regulatory, judicial and other governmental authorities and officials; and natural disasters, the outbreak of war, acts of terrorism or other significant national or international events. The risks associated with our business are more acute during periods of economic slowdown or recession. In addition to other consequences, these periods may be accompanied by decreased consumer spending generally, as well as decreased demand for, or additional downward pricing pressure on, the products carrying our brands. Accordingly, any prolonged economic slowdown or a lengthy or severe recession with respect to either the U.S. or the global economy is likely to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. As a result, 8 Table of Contents given the deteriorating position of the U.S. and global economy, as well as the decreased purchasing power of consumers, we expect that our business will continue to suffer for so long as, and to the extent that, such adverse economic conditions exist. In addition, other companies owning established trademarks could also enter into similar arrangements with retailers. Our business is largely dependent on royalties from two licensees, Target and Tesco, which each accounted for 42% of our consolidated licensing revenues in Fiscal 2009. During Fiscal 2009, 42% of our licensing revenues were generated from Target and 42% of our licensing revenues were generated from Tesco. We could suffer substantially decreased royalty revenues and cash flow under the Restated Target Agreement if Target were to reduce its sales of Cherokee branded products while continuing to pay the minimum royalties of $9.0 million per fiscal year required under such agreement. We are unsure whether we would be able to replace the royalty payments received from Target and Tesco. The termination of either of these license agreements would have a material adverse effect upon our revenues and cash flow if we were unable to replace these royalty streams in a timely manner. We are unsure whether we would be able to replace the royalty payments received from Target and Tesco. Together, these two licensees accounted for approximately 84% of our consolidated licensing revenues in Fiscal 2009. We are dependent on our intellectual property and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully protect our rights. We hold various trademarks including Cherokee, Sideout, Carole Little and others in connection with apparel, footwear and accessories. These trademarks are vital to the success and future growth of our business. These trademarks are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and in numerous other countries. We also hold several trademark applications for Cherokee and Sideout in several countries. There can be no assurance that the actions taken by us to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will prevent imitation of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights by others, or prevent the loss of licensing revenue or other damages caused thereby. In addition, the laws of several countries in which we have licensed our intellectual property may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our intellectual property, which could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In the future we may be required to assert infringement claims against third parties, and there can be no assurance that one or more parties will not assert infringement claims against us. Any resulting litigation could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our management personnel whether or not such litigation is determined in our favor. We are dependent on our key management personnel. Our success is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key executives, including Robert Margolis, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Howard Siegel, our President; and Russell J. Riopelle, our Chief Financial Officer. We have a limited number of employees and Mr. Margolis' and our other executives' leadership and experience in the apparel licensing industry is important to the successful implementation of our business and marketing strategy. We do not carry key person life insurance covering any of our executives. The loss of the services of Mr. Margolis or our other key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 9 Table of Contents The Management Agreement with our Chief Executive Officer contains provisions that provide for a substantial cash payment to our Chief Executive Officer upon our breach or termination of the management agreement. Mr. Margolis' services as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are provided to us pursuant to a management agreement (the "Management Agreement"). The current term of the Management Agreement ends February 1, 2011; however, the term may be extended indefinitely for additional one year terms so long as we meet certain pre-tax earnings thresholds. If we terminate the Management Agreement without cause or Mr. Margolis terminates the Management Agreement after we materially breach any of the terms and conditions thereof, we would be obligated to pay Mr. Margolis, within sixty days after the date of termination, a lump sum in cash equal to three times the sum of the annual base compensation under the Management Agreement at the rate in effect at the time of the termination plus the amount of the previous year's performance bonus under the Management Agreement. Mr. Margolis' annual base compensation in Fiscal 2009 was $790,000 and his performance bonus for Fiscal 2009 was approximately $2.9 million. Based on the amounts paid for Fiscal 2009, the lump sum payment owed upon such a termination, as of February 1, 2009, would be approximately $11.1 million. At the time such payment is due, we may not have sufficient cash to make the lump sum payment to Mr. Margolis, and becoming obligated to make such payment would have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Under certain circumstances, the obligation to make such lump sum payment to Mr. Margolis could be triggered if a third party were to acquire us, which would increase such third party's acquisition costs, but would also each year thereafter reduce our annual operating expenses due to the elimination of annual bonus payments to Mr. Margolis pursuant to the Management Agreement. We may not pay dividends regularly in the future. Although we have paid dividends during each quarter since December 2003, and including during the first quarter of fiscal 2010, there can be no assurances that we will continue to generate excess cash to pay dividends, or that we will continue to pay dividends with such excess cash if other, more compelling business opportunities are available, as determined by our Board of Directors. Our ability to generate excess cash from our operations in the future is dependent upon a variety of factors, including Cherokee's financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, capital requirements and other factors. In Fiscal 2009, we paid a total of $22.2 million in dividends, which was greater than our net income of $14.3 million for Fiscal 2009. In recognition of the fact that our payment of dividends could not continue at historical levels beyond Fiscal 2009 unless cash flow from operations increases substantially, on July 31, 2008, we announced that we reduced our future quarterly dividend payment from $0.75 per share to $0.50 per share, which more closely aligns our dividend payments with our expected cash flow from operations. On January 29, 2009, our Board of Directors approved a $0.50 per common share dividend which was paid on March 18, 2009 to stockholders of record as of March 2, 2009. Should our future dividend payments end up exceeding our cash from operations, we will reduce the excess cash on our balance sheet and our Board of Directors may elect to further reduce or eliminate future dividend payments in order to align our dividend payments with the cash flow generated from our operations. Furthermore, should the dividend tax laws change such that taxes on dividends become higher than they currently are, we may further reduce or eliminate the dividends we pay to our stockholders in favor of other ways to increase value for our stockholders. 10 Table of Contents The implementation of new accounting rules related to the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes affected our reported results of operations and will continue to impact our operating results in subsequent periods. Any subsequent changes in accounting rules may also have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 ("FIN 48") as of February 4, 2007, as required. In Fiscal 2008 and subsequent periods, the income tax assets and liabilities we recognize for uncertain tax positions, if any, will be adjusted when the related income tax liabilities are paid, the income tax positions are settled with the taxing authorities, the related statutes of limitations expire or under other circumstances as provided in FIN 48. Our assessment of uncertain tax positions requires that we make estimates and judgments about the application of tax law, the expected resolution of uncertain tax positions and other matters. In the event that uncertain tax positions are resolved for amounts different than our estimates, or the related statutes of limitations expire without our being assessed additional income taxes, we will be required to adjust the amounts of the related assets and liabilities in the period in which such events occur. Such adjustments may have a material impact on our income tax provision and our results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 