Risk Factors—Problems with sourcing, along with the extent of our foreign sourcing, may adversely affect our business." As we expand our licensing activities, we increase risks associated with having a limited ability to conduct comprehensive final quality checks on merchandise, which could affect product quality. In addition, our ability to successfully carry out our plans to improve and expand our product offerings may be affected by economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer preferences and style trends. These plans could be abandoned, could cost more than anticipated and could divert resources from other areas of our business, any of which could impact our competitive position and reduce our net revenue and profitability. Our licensing arrangements may not be successful and may make us susceptible to the actions of third parties who may not comply with our product quality, manufacturing standards, marketing and other requirements, which may have an adverse effect on our brand equity, reputation or business. We license our Hudson® to third parties for manufacturing, marketing and distribution of children's products. Additionally, we license trademarks associated with our Robert Graham® brand to third parties for manufacturing, marketing and distribution of apparel and accessories. We believe that licensing our brands for certain product categories will broaden and enhance the products available under these brand names. Our licensing arrangements may not be successful and may make us susceptible to the actions of third parties over whom we have limited control. We have entered into one license agreement for our Hudson® brand: children's. We have entered into certain license agreements for our Robert Graham® brand: men's dress shirts, neckwear, tailored clothing, hosiery, leather goods (including bags and belts and small leathers), sun and optical eyewear, headwear, jewelry, footwear, underwear and loungewear and fragrances. In the future, we may enter into select additional licensing arrangements for product offerings which require specialized expertise. We may also enter into select licensing agreements pursuant to which we may grant third parties the right to distribute and sell our products in certain geographic areas. Although we have taken and will continue to take steps to select potential licensing partners carefully and to monitor the activities of our licensing partners (through, among other things, approval rights over product design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, marketing, distribution and advertising), such arrangements may not be successful. Our licensing partners may fail to fulfill their 22 Table of Contents obligations under their license agreements or have interests that differ from or conflict with our own, such as the pricing of our products and the offering of competitive products. In addition, the risks applicable to the business of our licensing partners may be different than the risks applicable to our business, including risks associated with each such partner's ability to: • obtain capital; • exercise operational and financial control over its business; • manage its labor relations; • maintain relationships with suppliers; • manage its credit and bankruptcy risks; and • maintain customer relationships. Any of the foregoing risks, or the inability of any of our licensing partners to successfully market our products or otherwise conduct the licensing partners' business, may result in loss of revenue and competitive harm to our operations and reputation in regions or product categories where we have entered into such licensing arrangements. If we are unable to accurately forecast customer demand for our products, our manufacturers may not be able to deliver products to meet our requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products to our stores and to wholesale partners. We stock our stores, and provide inventory to our wholesale partners, based on our or our wholesale partners' estimates of future demand for particular products. Our inventory management and production planning team determines the number of pieces of each product that we will order from our manufacturers based upon past sales of similar products, sales trend information and anticipated demand at our suggested retail prices. However, if our inventory and planning team fails to accurately forecast customer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully manage our inventory or production at a level appropriate for future customer demand. Factors that could affect our inventory management and production planning team's ability to accurately forecast customer demand for our products include: • a substantial increase or decrease in demand for our products or for products of our competitors; • our failure to accurately forecast customer acceptance for our new products; • new product introductions or pricing strategies by competitors; • more limited historical store sales information for our newer products and markets; • weakening of economic conditions or consumer confidence in the future; and • acts or threats of war or terrorism or civil unrest which could adversely affect consumer confidence and spending or our international sales. If we were to experience rapid growth, we may place insufficient levels of desirable product with our wholesale partners and in our retail locations such that we would be unable to fully satisfy customer demand at those locations. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to match supply with demand in all cases in the future, whether as a result of our inability to produce sufficient levels of desirable product or our failure to forecast demand accurately. As a result of these inabilities or failures, we may encounter difficulties in filling customer orders or in liquidating excess inventory at discount prices and may experience significant write-offs. Additionally, if we over-produce a product 23 Table of Contents based on an aggressive forecast of demand, retailers may not be able to sell the product and cancel future orders or require give backs. These outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our brand image and adversely impact sales, gross margins and profitability. Our business could be negatively impacted by the financial health of our retail customers. We sell our products primarily to retail and distribution companies around the world based on pre-qualified payment terms. Financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail business with that customer. We may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer's receivables. We are dependent primarily on lines of credit that we establish from time to time with customers, and should a substantial number of customers become unable to pay to us their respective debts as they become due, we may be unable to collect some or all of the monies owed by those customers. In particular, because of the concentration of our customer and customer groups, our results of operations could be adversely affected if any one of these customers fails to satisfy its payments obligations to us when due. In recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation, restructurings, reorganizations and other ownership changes that have resulted in one entity controlling several different stores or the elimination of stores. This consolidation can result in fewer customers for our products or the closing of some stores or the number of "doors" which carry our products. As a result, the potential for consolidation or ownership changes, closing of retail outlets and fewer customers could negatively impact sales of our products and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to manage our operations at our current size or are unable to manage any future growth effectively, our business results and financial performance may suffer. We have made and are making investments to support our near and longer-term growth. If our operations continue to grow over the longer term, of which there can be no assurance, we will be required to expand our sales and marketing, product development and distribution functions, to upgrade our management information systems and other processes, and to obtain more space for our expanding administrative support and other headquarters personnel. The integration of our Hudson Business and our Robert Graham Business could strain our existing resources. As a result, we could experience operating difficulties, including obtaining sufficient raw materials at acceptable prices, securing manufacturing capacity to produce our products and experiencing delays in production and shipments. These difficulties would likely lead to a decrease in net revenue, income from operations and the price of our common stock, and such decreases could be significant. Problems with sourcing, along with the extent of our foreign sourcing, may adversely affect our business. Our products are primarily produced by, and purchased or procured from, independent manufacturing contractors, many of whom are located outside of the United States. For fiscal 2015, substantially all of the total revenue for the Robert Graham Business was attributable to manufacturing contractors located outside of the United States, with approximately 92 percent of Robert Graham's purchases for fiscal 2015 attributable to manufacturing contractors located in Asia, including India. For fiscal 2015, 51 percent of the total revenue for the Hudson Business was attributable to manufacturing contractors located outside of the United States, with approximately 45 percent of Hudson's purchases attributable to manufacturing contractors located in Mexico. We anticipate that the percentage of our total combined revenue sourced from outside of the United States for fiscal 2015 will increase because of our plan to shift a substantial portion of Hudson's denim production to Mexico, Turkey and other foreign countries. A manufacturing contractor's failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet the required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items. The failure to make timely deliveries may cause customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect 24 Table of Contents on us. As a result of the magnitude of our foreign sourcing, our business is subject to the following risks: • political and economic instability in countries or regions, including heightened terrorism and other security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional or more frequent inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods; • imposition of regulations, quotas and other trade restrictions relating to imports, including quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements between the United States and foreign countries; • imposition of increased duties, taxes and other charges on imports; • labor union strikes at ports through which our products enter the United States; • labor shortages in countries where contractors and suppliers are located; • a significant decrease in availability or an increase in the cost of raw materials; • restrictions on the transfer of funds to or from foreign countries; • disease epidemics and health-related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials, and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas; • the migration and development of manufacturing contractors, which could affect where our products are or planned to be produced; • increases in the costs of fuel, travel and transportation; • reduced manufacturing flexibility because of geographic distance between our foreign manufacturers and us, increasing the risk that we may have to mark down unsold inventory as a result of misjudging the market for a foreign- made product; and • violations by foreign contractors of labor and wage standards and resulting adverse publicity. If these risks limit or prevent us from manufacturing products in any significant international market, prevent us from acquiring products from foreign suppliers, or significantly increase the cost of our products, our operations could be seriously disrupted until alternative suppliers are found or alternative markets are developed, which could negatively impact our business. We do not have written agreements with any of our third-party manufacturing contractors. As a result, any single manufacturing contractor could unilaterally terminate its relationship with us at any time. Supply disruptions from any of our third-party manufacturing contractors could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands, if we are unable to source suitable replacement materials in a timely manner, at acceptable prices or at all. Our inability to promptly replace manufacturing contractors that terminate their relationships with us or cease to provide high quality products in a timely and cost- efficient manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business could suffer as a result of a manufacturer's inability to produce our goods on time and to our specifications or if we need to replace manufacturers. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third parties for the manufacture of all of our products. We enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications and other standard industry provisions, but do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. None of the manufacturers we use produces our products exclusively. The inability of a certain manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality 25 Table of Contents standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because of the seasonality of our business, and the apparel and fashion business in particular, the dates on which customers need and require shipments of products from us are critical, as styles and consumer tastes change so rapidly in the apparel and fashion business, particularly from one season to the next. Further, because quality is a leading factor when customers and retailers accept or reject goods, any decline in quality by our third-party manufacturers could be detrimental not only to a particular order, but also to our future relationship with that particular customer. We compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers. Some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus may have an advantage in the competition for production and import quota capacity. If we experience a significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third-party manufacturing capacity. We cannot provide assurance that this additional capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us or similar to any existing terms which we have with our manufacturers, either from a production standpoint or a financial standpoint. If an independent manufacturer of ours fails to use acceptable labor practices, our business could suffer. While we require our independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we have no control over the ultimate actions of our independent manufacturers. Despite our lack of control, we have internal and vendor operating guidelines to promote ethical business practices and our staff periodically visits and monitors the operations of our independent manufacturers. We also use the services of a third party independent labor consulting service to conduct on site audits as required by state labor laws to help minimize our risk and exposure to unacceptable labor practice violations. The violation of labor or other laws by one of our independent manufacturers or the divergence of an independent manufacturer's labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In particular, the laws governing garment manufacturers in the State of California impose joint liability upon us and our independent manufacturers for the labor practices of those independent manufacturers. As a result, should one of our independent manufacturers be found in violation of state labor laws, we could suffer adverse financial or other unforeseen adverse consequences. Increases in the price of raw materials or their reduced availability could increase our cost of goods and decrease our profitability. The principal fabrics used in our business are cotton, blends, synthetics and wools. The prices we pay our suppliers for our products are dependent in part on the market price for the raw materials—primarily cotton—used to produce them. The price and availability of cotton may fluctuate substantially, depending on a variety of factors, including demand, crop yields, weather, supply conditions, transportation costs, work stoppages, government regulation, economic climates and other unpredictable factors. Increases in raw material costs, together with other factors, could result in a decrease of our profitability unless we are able to pass higher prices on to our customers. Moreover, any decrease in the availability of cotton could impair our ability to meet our production requirements in a timely manner, which could adversely affects our revenues and working capital requirements. 26 Table of Contents We are dependent on our relationships with our vendors. We purchase our raw materials, including fabric, yarns, threads and trims, such as zippers, buttons and tags from a variety of vendors. While we are not reliant exclusively on one or more particular vendor for the supply of the raw materials or component parts required to meet our manufacturing needs, we depend on our relationships and these vendors to ensure our supply of these raw materials or component parts. Any problems or disputes with these vendors could result in us having to source these raw materials or component parts from another vendor, which could delay production, and in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to heightened cybersecurity risks and may incur an increase in costs in an effort to minimize those risks. We utilize systems and websites that allow for the secure storage and transmission of proprietary or confidential information regarding our customers, employees, and others, including credit card information and personal identification information. A security breach may expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation, and potential liability. We may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly- evolving types of cyber-attacks. Attacks may be targeted at us, our customers, or others who have entrusted us with information. Actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. Advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries, or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction or other data being breached or compromised. In addition, data and security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including breach by us or by persons with whom we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of personal or confidential information. Any compromise or breach of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. Any potential future acquisitions, strategic investments or mergers may subject us to significant risks, any of which may harm our business and may lead to substantial dilution or negative effects on the market price of our common stock. The combined company's strategy includes identifying and acquiring, investing in or merging with suitable candidates on acceptable terms in order to grow or complement our business. Acquisitions would involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: • diversion of management attention from running our existing business; • possible material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting; • increased expenses including legal, administrative and compensation expenses related to newly hired employees; • increased costs to integrate the technology, personnel, customer base and business practices of the acquired company with us; • potential exposure to material liabilities not discovered in the due diligence process, including cyber security risks; • potential adverse effects on our reported operating results due to possible write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets associated with acquisitions; • acquisition financing may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and 27 Table of Contents • any acquired business, technology, service or product may significantly under-perform relative to our expectations, and we may not achieve the benefits we expect from the acquisition. For any or all of these reasons, our pursuit of an acquisition, investment or merger may cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. In addition, the success of our strategy to pursue potential future acquisitions will depend on our ability to achieve savings from the elimination of duplicative expenses or the realization of other efficiencies associated with such acquisitions. Failure to implement our strategic plan with success, including our ability to achieve anticipated savings in connection with any potential future acquisitions, could result in increased costs and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. Because we are highly levered, we expect that we may need to issue additional equity to support our growth; however, we may not be eligible to use a Form S-3, therefore, the process of raising capital to support our growth may be more expensive and time consuming and the terms of any offering transaction may not be as favorable as they would have been if we were eligible to use Form S-3. Moreover, the addition of a substantial number of shares of the our common stock into the market or the registration of any other securities may significantly and negatively affect the prevailing market price for our common stock and would dilute the ownership of our then existing stockholders. The seasonal nature of our business makes management more difficult, severely reduces cash flow and liquidity during parts of the year and could force us to curtail our operations. Our business is seasonal. The majority of our marketing and sales activities take place from late fall to early spring. The greatest volume of shipments and sales typically occurs from late spring through the early fall, which coincides with our third and fourth fiscal quarters. This requires us to build-up inventories during our first and second fiscal quarters when our cash flow is weakest. Cash flow is typically strongest in the third and fourth fiscal quarters. Unfavorable economic conditions affecting retailers during the fall and holiday seasons in any year could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the year. We are likely to experience periods of negative cash flow throughout each year, including, a drop-off in business commencing each December, which could force us to curtail operations if adequate liquidity is not available. We cannot assure you that the effects of such seasonality will diminish in the future. Our trademark and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected and some of our products are targets of counterfeiting. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We may, however, experience conflict with various third parties who acquire or claim ownership rights in certain trademarks as we expand our product offerings and expand the number of countries where we sell our products. We cannot ensure that any actions taken to establish and protect these trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of their trademarks and proprietary rights. Also, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Our products are sometimes the target of counterfeiters. As a result, there are often products that are imitations or "knock-offs" of our products that can be found in the marketplace or consumers can find products that are confusingly similar to ours. We intend to continue to vigorously defend our trademarks and products bearing our trademarks, however, we cannot assure you that our efforts will be adequate to prosecute and block all sales of infringing products from the marketplace. 28 Table of Contents Our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. Our ability to capitalize on growth in new and existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. Some of these risks include: • the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; and • new tariffs or other barriers to some international markets. We are also subject to general political and economic risks associated with conducting international business, including: • political instability; • changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and • general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the United States, Mexico, the European Union, Canada, China, Japan, India, South Korea or other countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in regulatory or geopolitical policies and other factors may adversely affect our business in the future or may require us to modify our current business practices. Our common stock price is volatile and may decrease. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate significantly and investors in our common stock could lose the value of their investment. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent times, which could have a material adverse effect on the market for, or liquidity of, our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. The trading price and volume of our common stock has historically been subject to fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: • annual and quarterly variations in actual or anticipated operating results; • operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; • changes in market valuations of other premium denim apparel companies; • announcements of new product lines by us or our competitors, announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions or dispositions of assets, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • additions or departures of key personnel or members of our board of directors; and • general conditions in the apparel industry. In the 52 week period prior to the filing of this Annual Report, the closing price of our common stock has ranged from $2.85 to $10.95 (after giving effect to the Reverse Stock Split). In addition, stock markets generally have experienced price and volume trading volatility in recent years. This volatility has had an effect on the market prices of securities of many companies for reasons unrelated to the 29 Table of Contents operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. The Merger and the related Merger Transactions may not achieve its intended results and could adversely affect our financial results. We entered into various agreements in connection with the Merger with the expectation that the Merger and the related Merger Transactions would result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings, operating efficiencies, growth opportunities and the alleviation of certain issues related to our liquidity. Our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger and the related Merger Transactions is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the Robert Graham Business is combined with Hudson Business in an efficient and effective manner. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of revenues we expect to generate and diversion of management's time and energy and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial results and prospects. Moreover, our future financial results will depend in part on our ability to profitably manage our core businesses, including any growth related to the combination of our Hudson Business and Robert Graham Business. Over the past several years, we have engaged in the identification of, and competition for, growth and expansion opportunities. In order to achieve those initiatives, we will need to, among other things, recruit, train, retain and effectively manage employees and expand our operations and financial control systems. If we are unable to manage our businesses effectively and profitably, including, without limitation, in connection with the wind down of certain retail leases as discussed below, our business and financial results could suffer. We may be unable to integrate the Company and RG successfully or realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger and the related Merger Transactions and our future business and financial results may be negatively impacted. We have incurred and continue to incur substantial expenses in connection with the Merger and the related Merger Transactions and the integration of the Company and RG. There are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated. While we have assumed that a certain level of expenses will be incurred, there are many factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. These expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that the Merger expects to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of cost savings. These integration expenses likely will result in us taking significant charges against earnings, and the amount and timing of such charges are uncertain at present. There can be no assurance that the elimination of duplicative costs or the realization of any other efficiencies related to the Merger will allow us to offset transaction-related costs in the near term, or at all. Our ability to operate profitably depends on our ability to implement our strategic plan with success, including our ability to successfully and efficiently integrate the businesses operations and personnel of the Company and RG. In order to achieve a successful integration, we must, among other things, retain and effectively manage employees. Our success is dependent on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified management, designers, administrative talent and sales associates to support existing operations and future growth. Competition for qualified talent in the apparel and fashion industry is intense, and we compete for these individuals with other companies that in many cases have greater financial and other resources. If we experience a large-scale loss of employees as a result of the Merger, we may be unable to manage our business effectively and profitably, and our business and financial results could suffer. Even if integration is successful, the financial performance of our business may not be as expected and there can be no assurance we will realize the benefits that we 30 Table of Contents expect to achieve. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefit could result in increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues and could adversely affect our future business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. As a result of the Merger, we expect our business to expand, and our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. There can be no assurances that we will be successful or that we will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements or other benefits currently anticipated from the Merger. Ownership of our common stock is concentrated among affiliates of TCP, which substantially reduces the ability of other stockholders to influence management, including through the election of directors, and may result in decisions that do not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders. In connection with the Merger and the Merger Transactions, we effected the Reverse Stock Split and issued or reserved for issuance 15,688,675 shares of our common stock consisting of (1) 8,870,968 shares of common stock issuable pursuant to the Merger Agreement, (2) up to 4,480,287 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, (3) 1,154,194 shares of common stock issuable pursuant to the Rollover Agreement and (4) 1,183,226 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Modified Convertible Notes. Upon the closing of the Merger, affiliates of TCP owned an aggregate of approximately 32.04 percent of our outstanding voting power. The holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, which is an affiliate of TCP, will, for so long as they remain outstanding, have certain rights and privileges, such as the election of up to three (3) directors to our board of directors. Additionally, the holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, on an as converted basis, on all matters presented to the common stockholders for approval. Accordingly, the ability of our other stockholders to influence our management, including through the election of directors, may be reduced. At the same time, affiliates of TCP are in a position to exert significant control over us and have the ability to substantially influence all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, an increase in the number of shares authorized for issuance under our stock option plans, and to exert significant control over our management and affairs, which may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our business, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to other stockholders. Additionally, under the terms of the Modified Convertible Notes that were issued pursuant to the Rollover Agreement, we can choose how we settle the conversion of the Modified Convertible Notes. We are able to settle by issuing shares of common stock, cash, or a combination of cash and common stock, at our election. If we settle through the issuance of common stock, the ownership interest held by our existing stockholders will be reduced. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 