Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained herein or incorporated herein by reference, the risks and uncertainties and other factors described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and share price and could also cause our future business, financial condition and results of operations to differ materially from the results contemplated by any forward-looking statement we may make herein, in any other document we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or in any press release or other written or oral statement we may make. Please also see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" for additional risks and uncertainties applicable to us. The risks described below and elsewhere in this Report are not the only ones we face. Additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business is subject to intense competition. Royalties paid to us under our licensing agreements are generally based on a percentage of our licensee's net sales of licensed products. Cherokee, Carole Little and Sideout brand footwear, apparel, and accessories, together with merchandise bearing our recently acquired "Liz Lange" and "Completely Me by Liz Lange" brands, all of which are manufactured and sold by both domestic and international wholesalers and retail licensees, are subject to extensive competition by numerous domestic and foreign companies. Such competitors with respect to the Cherokee brand include Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Liz Claiborne, and private label brands (developed by retailers) such as Faded Glory, Arizona, and Route 66. Factors which shape the competitive environment include quality of garment construction and design, brand name, style and color selection, price and the manufacturer's ability to respond quickly to the retailer on a national basis. In recognition of the increasing trend towards consolidation of retailers and what appears to be a de-emphasis by retailers on the manufacture of private label merchandise, in the United States our business plan focuses on creating strategic alliances with major retailers for their sale of products bearing our brands through the licensing of our trademarks directly to retailers. Therefore, our degree of success is dependent on the strength of our brands, consumer acceptance of and desire for our brands, our licensees' ability to design, manufacture and sell products bearing our brands and to respond to ever-changing consumer demands, and any significant failure by our licensees to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We cannot control the level of resources that our licensees commit to supporting our brands, and our licensees may choose to support other brands to the detriment of our brands as our license agreements generally do not prevent our licensees from licensing from our competitors. In addition, other companies owning established trademarks could also enter into similar arrangements with retailers, including our existing retail partners, competing for limited floor pad and rack space. We are subject to risks related to the retail business that are applicable to our licensees. There are numerous risk factors that apply to the businesses of retailers (including our licensees) that can affect their level of sales of products that bear our brands. Any decline in sales by our licensees can adversely affect our revenues. Factors that may adversely affect our licensees and their sales of products bearing our brands include the following: (i) weather; (ii) changes in the availability or cost of capital; (iii) shifts in the seasonality of shopping patterns; (iv) declining retail prices; (v) labor strikes or other interruptions that impact supply chains and transport vendors; (vi) the impact of excess retail capacity; (vii) changes in the cost of accepting various payment methods and changes in the rate of utilization of these payment methods; (viii) material acquisitions or dispositions; (ix) investments in new business strategies; (x) the success or failure of significant new business ventures or technologies; (xi) actions taken or omitted to be taken by legislative, regulatory, judicial and other governmental authorities and officials; and (xii) natural disasters, the outbreak of war, acts of terrorism or other significant national or international events. 9 Table of Contents We rely on the accuracy of our licensees' retail sales reports for reporting and collecting our revenues, and if these reports are untimely or incorrect, our revenues could be delayed or inaccurately reported. Most of our revenues are generated from retailers who license our brands for manufacture and sale of products bearing our brands in their stores. Under our existing agreements, these licensees pay us licensing fees based in part on the number of products sold. We rely on our licensees to accurately report the number of units sold in collecting our license fees, preparing our financial reports, projections, budgets, and directing our sales and marketing efforts. All of our license agreements permit us to audit our customers. If any of our licensee reports understate the retail sales of products they sell, we may not collect and recognize revenues to which we are entitled, or may endure significant expense to obtain compliance. Our business is largely dependent on royalties from Target. Royalty revenues from our Cherokee brand at Target accounted for 57%, 54%, and 42%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues during Fiscal 2013, Fiscal 2012 and Fiscal 2011. We could suffer substantially decreased royalty revenues and cash flow if Target were to reduce its sales of Cherokee branded products under the Restated Target Agreement while continuing to pay the minimum royalties of 10.5 million per fiscal year required under such agreement. Replacing the royalty payments received from Target would be a significant challenge and no assurances can be made that we would be successful in doing so. The termination of this license agreement would have a material adverse effect upon our revenues and cash flow. The current term of the Restated Target Agreement continues through January 31, 2014. In addition, in September 2012 we expanded our relationship with Target as a result of our assumption of an additional license agreement with Target for the "Liz Lange" and "Completely Me by Liz Lange" brands, which we assumed in connection with our acquisition of assets related to such brands. We further expanded our relationship with Target in connection with our January 2013 acquisition of rights to the Cherokee brand in the category of school uniforms. We acquired the "Liz Lange" and "Completely Me by Liz Lange" brands as well as our rights to the Cherokee brand for the school uniforms category in part based upon our expectation that revenues from Target for such brands and the school uniforms category will grow in future periods, although we can provide no assurances that such revenue growth will occur. The failure of our licensees to sell products bearing our brands or to pay us royalties for such products could result in a decline in our results of operations. Our revenues are almost entirely dependent on royalty payments made to us under our licensing agreements. Although the licensing agreements for our brands in most cases provide for guaranteed minimum royalty payments to us, the failure of our licensees to satisfy their obligations under these agreements or their inability to grow or maintain their businesses could cause our revenues to suffer. Further, while we are substantially dependent on our relationship with Target, the concurrent failure by several of our other material licensees to meet their financial obligations to us could materially and adversely impact our results of operation and our financial condition. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act. As disclosed in Item 9A, management identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of February 2, 2013. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. 10 Table of Contents As a result of these material weaknesses, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective based on criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organization of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control—Integrated Framework. We have developed a remediation plan that is designed to address these material weaknesses. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results, which could lead to substantial additional costs for accounting and legal fees and litigation. In addition, even if we are successful in strengthening our controls and procedures, in the future those controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or errors or to facilitate the fair presentation of our consolidated financial statements. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls in accordance with applicable standards, we may be unable to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, our business and financial condition could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, or the market price of our stock could decline significantly. Moreover, our reputation with lenders, investors, securities analysts and others may be adversely affected. Our business may be negatively impacted by general economic conditions. Our performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and its corresponding impact on the levels of consumer spending which may affect our licensees' sales. Consumer spending is showing signs of stabilization and in some cases improvement; however it is difficult to predict future levels of consumer spending and any such predictions are inherently uncertain. The worldwide apparel industry is heavily influenced by general economic cycles. Purchases of apparel and accessories tend to decline in periods of recession or uncertainty regarding future economic prospects, as disposable income typically declines. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel industries, including, among others, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, energy costs, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. During periods of economic uncertainty, we may not be able to maintain, or increase our revenues. As a result, our operating results may be materially affected by trends in the United States or global economy. The risks associated with our business are more acute during periods of economic slowdown or recession. In addition to other consequences, these periods may be accompanied by decreased consumer spending generally, as well as decreased demand for, or additional downward pricing pressure on, the products carrying our brands. Accordingly, any prolonged economic slowdown or a lengthy or severe recession with respect to either the U.S. or the global economy is likely to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. We are subject to additional risks associated with our international licensees. We market and license our brands outside the United States. Many of our licensees are located outside the United States. As a key component of our business strategy, we intend to expand our international sales as well as the support we provide our international licensees. During Fiscal 2013, nearly 36% of our revenues were derived internationally. We face numerous risks in doing business outside the United States, including: (i) unusual or burdensome foreign laws or regulatory requirements or unexpected changes to those laws or requirements; (ii) tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, trade embargos, and other trade barriers; (iii) difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified personnel to manage foreign customers; competition from foreign companies; 11 Table of Contents (iv) longer accounts receivable collection cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; (v) less effective and less predictable protection and enforcement of our intellectual property; (vi) changes in the political or economic condition of a specific country or region, particularly in emerging markets; (vii) fluctuations in the value of foreign currency versus the U.S. dollar and the cost of currency exchange; (viii) potentially adverse tax consequences; and (ix) cultural differences in the conduct of business. Any one or more of such factors could cause our future international sales to decline or could cause us to fail to execute on our business strategy involving international expansion. In addition, our business practices in international markets are subject to the requirements of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, any violation of which could subject us to significant fines, criminal sanctions and other penalties. Additionally, and because our international revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may negatively impact our royalty revenues. Significant fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. The main foreign currencies we encounter in our operations are the Canadian Dollar, the Mexican Peso, the EURO, the Great British Pound, the South African Rand, the Japanese Yen, and the Chinese Yuan. We do not currently engage in currency hedging activities to limit the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. Our business and the success of our products could be harmed if we are unable to maintain the strength of our brands. Our success to date has been due in large part to the strength of our brands. If we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to changing consumer demand, the strength of our brands may be impaired. Even if we react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, consumers may consider one or more of our brands to be outdated or associate one or more of our brands with styles that are no longer popular. In the past, many apparel companies have experienced periods of rapid growth in sales and earnings followed by periods of declining sales and losses. Our business may be similarly affected in the future. We are dependent on our intellectual property, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully protect our rights or that we will not become involved in costly legal proceedings regarding our intellectual property. We hold various trademarks including Cherokee, Sideout, Liz Lange, Completely Me by Liz Lange, Carole Little and others in connection with apparel, footwear, home and accessories. These trademarks are vital to the success and future growth of our business. These trademarks are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and in numerous other countries. We also hold several trademark applications for Cherokee and Sideout in approximately 100 countries. There can be no assurance that the actions taken by us to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will prevent imitation of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights by others, or prevent the loss of licensing revenue or other damages caused thereby. In addition, the laws of several countries in which we have licensed our intellectual property may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our intellectual property, which could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In the future we may be required to assert infringement claims against third parties, and there can be no assurance that one or more parties will not assert infringement claims against us. Any resulting litigation could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our management personnel whether or not such litigation is determined in our favor. Further, if any adverse ruling in any such matter occurs, any resulting limitations in our ability to market or license our brands could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We may become involved in other litigation and administrative proceedings that may materially affect us. From time to time, we may become involved in various legal proceedings relating to matters incidental to the ordinary course of our business, including commercial, employment, class action, whistleblower and other litigation and claims, and governmental and other regulatory investigations and proceedings. Such matters can be time-consuming, divert management's attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. Furthermore, because litigation is inherently unpredictable, there can be no assurance that the results of any of these actions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are dependent on our key management personnel. Our success is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key executives, including, Henry Stupp, our Chief Executive Officer, Howard Siegel, our President and Chief Operating Officer and Jason Boling, our Chief Financial Officer,. We have a limited number of employees and Mr. Stupp's and our other executives' leadership and experience in the apparel licensing industry is important to the successful implementation of our business and marketing strategy. We do not carry key person life insurance covering any of our executives. The loss of the services of Mr. Stupp or our other key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We may not successfully address problems encountered in connection with acquisitions or other strategic transactions and we may not realize the expected benefits from them. We recently consummated two acquisitions; the acquisition of the Liz Lange brands and our acquisition of various rights to the Cherokee brand in the category of school uniforms. We expect to continue to consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other brands, or to engage in other strategic transactions, that could enhance our portfolio of products and services, or expand the breadth of our markets. Our history of acquiring and integrating acquisitions is limited, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in realizing the expected benefits from an acquisition. Future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage an expanded portfolio, which could pose substantial challenges for management. Acquisitions and other strategic transactions can involve numerous risks and potential difficulties, including, among others: (i) problems assimilating the brands; (ii) significant future charges relating the amortization of intangible assets; (iii) problems maintaining and enforcing standards, procedures, controls, policies and information systems; (iv) difficulty and cost in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel, and inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses; (v) unanticipated costs associated with an acquisition, including accounting and legal charges, capital expenditures, and transaction expenses; (vi) diversion of management's attention from our core business or our existing brand portfolio; (vii) adverse effects on existing business relationships with our partners; and (viii) risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience. Accordingly, our recent acquisitions as well as any future transaction that we pursue could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. In addition, future acquisitions may also require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. If we finance future acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders would be diluted. If we finance future acquisitions by issuing debt we may become over-levered and restrict our ability to operate the Company. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our operating results or financial condition. 13 Table of Contents We have incurred a significant amount of indebtedness to pay the cash consideration for our recent acquisitions. Our level of indebtedness, and covenant restrictions under such indebtedness, could adversely affect our operations and liquidity. In order to fund our acquisition of the Liz Lange brands, we entered into a credit facility with JP Morgan Chase on September 4, 2012. We increased the size of our credit facility on January 31, 2013 in connection with our acquisition of rights related to the Cherokee brand in the school uniforms. The size of our credit facility totals $18.6 million, consisting of a $16.6 million 5-year term loan and a $2 million 3-year revolving line of credit. Our indebtedness under the credit agreement could adversely affect our operations and liquidity, by, among other things: making it more difficult for us to pay or refinance our debts as they become due during adverse economic and industry conditions because we may not have sufficient cash flows to make our scheduled debt payments; causing us to use a larger portion of our cash flow to fund interest and principal payments, reducing the availability of cash to fund working capital, product development and capital expenditures and other business activities; making it more difficult for us to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and to react to changes in market or industry conditions; and limiting our ability to borrow additional monies in the future to fund working capital, product development, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. In addition, the terms of our indebtedness contain various restrictions and covenants regarding the operation of our business, including covenants that require us to obtain JP Morgan's consent before we can: (i) incur additional indebtedness, (ii) consummate acquisitions, mergers or consolidations, (iii) repurchase or redeem any outstanding shares of our common stock or pay dividends or other distributions, other than stock dividends, to our stockholders. Our credit agreement also imposes financial covenants, including: (i) a minimum "fixed charge coverage ratio" of at least 1.2 to 1.0 and (ii) a limitation of Cherokee's "senior funded debt ratio" not to exceed 2.0 to 1.0. Further, as collateral for the credit agreement, we granted a security interest in favor of JP Morgan in all of our assets (including trademarks), and our indebtedness is guaranteed by Cherokee's wholly owned subsidiaries, Spell C. LLC and Cherokee Brands, LLC. In the event of a default under the credit agreement, JPMorgan Chase has the right to terminate its obligations under the credit agreement, accelerate the payment on any unpaid balance of the credit agreement and exercise its other rights including foreclosing on our assets under the security agreements. Our failure to comply with the terms of our indebtedness could result in a material adverse effect to our business, including our financial condition and our liquidity. Our future capital needs may be uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future, and such funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Our capital requirements in future periods may be uncertain and could depend upon many factors, including: acceptance of, and demand for, our brands; the costs of developing new brands; the extent to which we invest in new brands; the number and timing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions; the costs associated with our expansion, if any; and the costs of litigation and enforcement activities to defend our trademarks. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds, and such funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, particularly given the continuing credit crisis and downturn in the overall global economy. Furthermore, if we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products and services, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. This may materially harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Our strategic and marketing initiatives may not be successful. In recent periods, we have invested significant funds and management time in furtherance of our global strategic and marketing initiatives, which are designed to strengthen our brands, assist our licensees in generating increased sales of applicable Cherokee-branded products and build value for our stockholders over the long term. We expect to continue and, in some cases, expand such initiatives in future periods. While we are hopeful that our efforts in executing on such initiatives will expand our business and build stockholder value over the long term, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in doing so or that such initiatives will result in the intended benefits. Any failure by us to execute on our strategic initiatives, or the failure of such initiatives to cause our revenues to grow, could have a materially adverse impact on our operating results and financial performance. We may not pay dividends regularly or at all in the future. Although we have paid dividends during each quarter since December 2003, and including during Fiscal 2013, our Board of Directors may reduce or discontinue dividends at any time for any reason it deems relevant and there can be no assurances that we will continue to generate sufficient cash to pay dividends, or that we will continue to pay dividends with the cash that we do generate. In addition, pursuant to our Credit Agreement with JPMorgan Chase, we are prohibited from paying dividends in the event that we would be in violation of our covenant regarding our "fixed charge coverage ratio" after giving effect to any proposed dividend or are otherwise then in default of such agreement. Our ability to generate excess cash from our operations in the future is dependent upon a variety of factors, including Cherokee's financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, capital requirements and other factors. In Fiscal 2013, we paid a total of $5.9 million in dividends, which was less than our net income of $6.8 million for Fiscal 2013. Should our cash from operations be lower in future periods, we will reduce the excess cash on our balance sheet and our Board of Directors may elect to further reduce or eliminate future dividend payments. Furthermore, should the dividend tax laws change such that taxes on dividends become higher than they currently are, we may further reduce or eliminate the dividends we pay to our stockholders in favor of other ways to increase value for our stockholders. We must successfully maintain and/or upgrade our information technology systems. We rely on various information technology systems, including our Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system, to manage our operations, which subjects us to inherent costs and risks associated with maintaining, upgrading, replacing and changing these systems, including impairment of our information technology, potential disruption of our internal control systems, substantial capital expenditures, demands on management time and other risks of delays or difficulties in upgrading, transitioning to new systems or of integrating new systems into our current systems. The trading price of our stock may be volatile and shares of our common stock are relatively illiquid. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be subject to fluctuations as a result of various factors impacting our business, including (i) our financial results, (ii) announcements by us, our retail partners or by our competitors, as applicable, regarding or affecting the retail environment either domestically or internationally, our existing license agreements, our existing brand representations, new license agreements, new brand representations or strategic alliances or other agreements, (iii) recruitment or departure of key personnel, (iv) changes in the estimates of our financial results or changes in the recommendations of any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock, and (v) market conditions in the retail industry and the economy as a whole. Further, as a result of our relatively small public float, our common stock may be less liquid than the common stock of companies with broader public ownership. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of our common shares may have a greater impact on the trading price for our shares than would be the case if our public float were larger. 15 Table of Contents Our Certificate of Incorporation allows our Board of Directors to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of "blank check" preferred stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation allows our Board of Directors to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of "blank check" preferred stock, without action by our stockholders. Subject to the approval of JPMorgan Chase pursuant to our credit agreement, such shares of preferred stock may be issued on terms determined by our Board of Directors, and may have rights, privileges and preferences superior to those of our common stock. Without limiting the foregoing, (i) such shares of preferred stock could have liquidation rights that are senior to the liquidation preference applicable to our common stock, (ii) such shares of preferred stock could have voting or conversion rights, which could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock and (iii) the ownership interest of holders of our common stock will be diluted following the issuance of any such shares of preferred stock. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our net income. We are subject to income taxes in the United States. Our effective income tax rates could in the future be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those tax laws, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We may come under audit by tax authorities. For instance, the State of California is examining our 2009 and 2010 corporate tax returns. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Based on the results of an audit or litigation, a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. In addition, changes in tax rules may adversely affect our future reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Compliance with changing securities laws, regulations and financial reporting standards will increase our costs and pose challenges for our management team. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder have created uncertainty for public companies and significantly increased the costs and risks associated with operating as a publicly traded company in the United States. Our management team will need to devote significant time and financial resources to comply with both existing and evolving standards for public companies, which will lead to increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. Furthermore, with such uncertainties and following the identification of a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting as of February 2, 2013 (as discussed in Item 9A of this Form 10-K) we cannot assure you that our system of internal control will be effective or satisfactory to our independent registered public accounting firm. As a result, our financial reporting may not be timely and/or accurate and we may be issued an adverse or qualified opinion by our independent registered public accounting firm. If reporting delays or errors actually occur, we could be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC, which could adversely affect our financial results or result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial information, and could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 16 Table of Contents Further, the SEC has passed, promulgated and proposed new rules on a variety of subjects including the requirement that we must file our financial statements with the SEC using the interactive data format eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL), and the possibility that we would be required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). In order to comply with XBRL and IFRS requirements, we may have to add additional accounting staff, engage consultants or change our internal practices, standards and policies which could significantly increase our costs. We believe that these new and proposed laws and regulations could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 