Risk Factors 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 20 Item 2. Properties 20 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 21 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 21 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 24 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation 25 Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures of Market Risk 40 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 41 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 68 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 68 Item 9B. Other Information 70 PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 70 Item 11. Executive Compensation 70 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 70 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 70 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 70 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 71 Table of Contents This Annual Report, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, other filings we may make with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), as well as press releases and other written or oral statements we may make from time to time may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used, the words "anticipates", "believes", "estimates", "plan", "expects", "objectives", "goals", "aims", "hopes", "may", "might", "will", "likely", "should" and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In particular, the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report include, among others, statements regarding our goals or expectations for our future revenues and earnings, the likelihood of increased retail sales by our current and future licensees, such as Target Corporation ("Target") and Kohl's Illinois, Inc. ("Kohl's"), the likelihood that our licensees will achieve royalty rate reductions, our prospects for obtaining new licensees and our prospects for obtaining new brands to acquire or represent. Forward-looking statements are based on our current views, expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results, performance, achievements or share price to be materially different from any future results, performance, achievements or share price expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, the financial condition of the apparel industry and the retail industry, the overall level of consumer spending and our exposure to general economic conditions, the effect of intense competition we face from other apparel lines both within and outside of Target, adverse changes in licensee or consumer acceptance of products bearing the Cherokee® brand or our other brands as a result of fashion trends or otherwise, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, the ability and/or commitment of our licensees to design, manufacture and market Cherokee or our other branded products, our dependence on Target for a substantial portion of our revenues, risks associated with our international licensees, our dependence on our key management personnel, the success of our Direct to Retail licensing model and our strategic and marketing initiatives, the benefits to us of our recently acquired assets related to the Hawk, Tony Hawk, Liz Lange and Completely Me by Liz Lange brands, the possibility that we may engage in strategic transactions that could impact our liquidity, increase our expenses or present significant distractions to our management or integration difficulties, any adverse determination of intellectual property or other claims, liabilities or litigation, our indebtedness and other requirements under our credit facility with JPMorgan Chase ("JPMorgan"), our future capital needs and our ability to raise funds in future periods if necessary, our ability to issue preferred stock with rights and privileges that are superior to those of our common stock, our payment or non-payment of dividends in future periods, the volatility in the trading price and the relative illiquidity of our common stock, unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, our ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, and our compliance with changing laws and financial standards. Several of these risks and uncertainties are discussed in more detail under "Item 1A, Risk Factors". You should however, understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all risks and uncertainties and you should not consider the risks and uncertainties identified by us to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties that could materially affect us. You should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements we make herein because some or all of them may turn out to be wrong. We undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect future events and developments. As used in this Annual Report, "Cherokee", the "Company", "we", "us" and "our" refer to Cherokee Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context indicates or requires otherwise. Additionally, as used herein, "Fiscal 2015" refers to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2015; "Fiscal 2014" refers to the fiscal year ended February 1, 2014; and "Fiscal 2013" refers to the fiscal year ended February 2, 2013. 1 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Overview Cherokee is a global marketer and manager of a portfolio of fashion and lifestyle brands it owns or represents, licensing the Cherokee, Liz Lange, Completely Me by Liz Lange, Hawk, Tony Hawk, Sideout, Carole Little and àle by alessandra brands and related trademarks and other brands in multiple consumer product categories and sectors. We are one of the leading global licensors of style-focused lifestyle brands for apparel, footwear, home and accessories. We own several trademarks, including Cherokee®, Liz Lange®, Completely Me by Liz Lange®, Hawk®, Tony Hawk®, Sideout®, Sideout Sport®, Carole Little®, Saint Tropez-West®, Chorus Line®, All That Jazz® and others. As part of our business strategy, we frequently evaluate other brands and trademarks for acquisition into our portfolio. We enter into license agreements with recognizable retail partners in their respective global locations to provide them the rights to design, manufacture and sell products bearing our brands and to provide them our proprietary 360-degree turn-key solution for product development, marketing services, support services and strategic sales initiatives. As of January 31, 2015, we had thirty-one continuing license agreements covering both domestic and international markets, fourteen of which pertained to the Cherokee brand. In addition to licensing our own brands, we also assist other brand-owners and companies in identifying opportunities as a licensee or licensor for their brands or stores and partner with individuals to market and license their lifestyle brands, such as our partnership with Alessandra Ambrosio for the àle by alessandra brand. Cherokee was incorporated in Delaware in 1988. Our principal executive offices are located at 5990 Sepulveda Boulevard, Sherman Oaks, California 91411, telephone (818) 908-9868. We maintain a website with the address www.cherokeeglobalbrands.com. We are not including the information contained on our website as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Direct to Retail Licensing Model Our primary emphasis is domestic and international direct to retail licensing, which we refer to as our "Direct to Retail" or "DTR" licensing model. In Direct to Retail licensing, we grant retailers a license to use our trademarks on certain categories of merchandise. We collaborate with our licensees' product development staff and merchandisers on design direction, packaging, marketing, and other aspects pertaining to the products sold with our trademarks, and in some cases our licensees modify or expand the designs or create their own designs to suit their seasonal, regional and category needs. In many cases, the licensee is responsible for designing and manufacturing the merchandise, although many products are subject to our pre-approved packaging, graphics and quality control standards, and many marketing campaigns are subject to similar oversight. Wholesale licensing, on the other hand, generally involves licensing to manufacturers that produce and import various categories of apparel, footwear, home and accessories under our trademarks and sell the licensed products to retailers. Although we have some wholesale licensees with respect to some of our brands, most of our licensees are retail licensees and we plan to continue to solicit new licensees using our Direct to Retail licensing model in new territories and additional product categories as we seek to expand our business. 2 Table of Contents Over the past two decades, the Direct to Retail licensing model has become more widely accepted by many retailers worldwide, as it generally offers each licensee, or retailer, the exclusive right to market multiple categories of products with a recognized brand within their territory, thereby offering licensees the ability to enhance their marketing strategies and achieve a competitive advantage over competing retailers. Typically, this differentiation also provides the retailer/licensee an opportunity to command a "premium" over private label price points, which can result in increased profit margins, even after royalties have been paid to the licensor. The licensees generally directly source their own inventory, thereby eliminating the licensor's exposure to inventory risk while allowing the licensees to benefit from large economies of scale. Many of the world's largest retailers have successfully introduced, and continue to introduce, new brands within the DTR licensing model. Examples of retailers actively participating in the DTR licensing model include Target, Wal-Mart, Carrefour, Kohl's and C&A, among others. Our Direct to Retail licensing strategy is premised on the proposition that, for many retailers in various countries worldwide, most aspects of the moderately priced apparel, footwear and accessories business, including product development, design, merchandising, sourcing and distribution, can be executed most effectively by these retailers themselves, who not only command significant economies of scale, but also interact daily with their end consumers. We believe that these retailers may be able to obtain higher gross margins on sales and increase store traffic by directly designing, sourcing, stocking and selling licensed products bearing widely recognized brand names (such as our brands) than by carrying strictly private label goods or branded products obtained from third-party vendors. We also expect that the enhanced profitability achievable with our Direct to Retail strategy, coupled with the substantial marketing costs to establish and maintain an in-store brand, will continue to increase the desirability of our strategy to retailers. Our primary strategy is to capitalize on these trends by licensing our portfolio of brand names directly to retailers around the world, who, working in conjunction with us, develop merchandise for their stores, and to augment our current portfolio by acquiring additional brands that have high consumer awareness, broad appeal and applicability to a range of merchandise categories. Strategic Initiatives We believe that our core strengths position us to expand our business and enhance stockholder value through execution of our proprietary 360-degree turn-key solution. Cherokee provides its licensees with a proprietary 360-degree turn-key solution that seamlessly integrates with the DTR model. Our retail-responsiveness process and 360-degree unique value proposition have allowed for Cherokee to address the growing power of the consumer and the present and future needs of the retailers that are selling our portfolio of lifestyle brands. Based on consumer research, retail insights and brand insights that are constantly being measured, evaluated and incorporated into our 360-degree turn-key solution, we believe Cherokee has become a key strategic partner to our licensees. Our global strategic initiatives currently include the following: • Product Design and Development—Our product design and development activities are led by design teams based in Los Angeles and Minneapolis. These teams work collectively with the licensees for each of our brands to develop a story, point-of-view and point-of-difference, develop product guidelines, including graphic language, fabrics, quality details and trim, and oversee execution to maintain brand integrity. These teams also assist in developing innovative seasonal product design concepts for our brands to maximize organic growth opportunities. • Support Services—Our support services teams provide marketing and other support to our licensees, including providing retail analytics data and marketing research about consumer insights and trends and identifying and sharing approved global sourcing and manufacturing vendors. 3 Table of Contents • Marketing Services—Our marketing services are designed to evolve and strengthen the positioning of our brands in collaboration with our retail partners on a direct-to-consumer and consumer-to-consumer basis by, among other things, creating enhanced in-store experiences with the introduction of custom design fixtures and visual displays, developing an integrated retail strategy across all consumer touch-points, including in-store, social media and other online avenues and cultivating relationships with credible brand ambassadors. • Strategic Sales Initiatives—These initiatives, which aim to achieve strategic revenue growth, include, among others, customized sales and merchandising plans for each of our brands and routine analysis of sales patterns to direct our geographic, product category and brand expansion efforts. Platforms for Growth We have two strategic platforms for the future growth of our licensing business. • Organic Growth—This involves introducing new product categories with existing partners and expanding existing brands into new territories. We are focused on the following organic growth drivers: a larger online presence with our partners; enhanced in-store experiences, such as shop-in-shop floor presentations; category expansion into home, footwear, and essentials; and partner expansion with more stores. • New Brands—This involves acquiring and representing new brands. We target style-focused lifestyle brands, such as our recently acquired Tony Hawk and Liz Lange brands. Potential new brands must be able to have a global platform and product category expansion opportunities. Brands Cherokee markets both owned brands and brands it represents. Generally, when representing brands, we perform a range of services including marketing of brands, solicitation of licensees, contract negotiations, and administration and maintenance of license or distribution agreements. In exchange for our services, we normally receive a certain percentage of the net royalties generated by the brands we represent and for which we establish a licensing arrangement. A summary of some of our owned brands and other brand representations is included below. Today, our brands are licensed with retail and wholesale licensees in over fifty countries and approaching 7,000 retail locations. We continue to solicit additional licensees for all our brands internationally. Owned Brands Cherokee Cherokee is an iconic, American family-lifestyle brand, offering classic, casual and comfortable products at affordable prices. Cherokee, which was initially launched as a footwear line in 1973, seeks to produce timeless classics, inspired by vintage Americana while continually being updated to account for modern trends. After four decades, the Cherokee brand stands for confident, effortless and relaxed American style. We believe this heritage positions the Cherokee brand for future growth and further international expansion. The Cherokee brand's most significant licensee is Target, which launched the Cherokee brand almost two decades ago as a multi-category product offering that encompasses kid's apparel, accessories, footwear and school uniforms (the rights to which we acquired in January 2013). Internationally, additional categories of Cherokee branded products are sold, including adult apparel, home décor, textiles, outdoor furnishings and camping gear. 4 Table of Contents Licensing revenues for our Cherokee brand totaled $26.5 million, $24.7 million and $24.1 million in Fiscal 2015, Fiscal 2014 and Fiscal 2013, respectively, which represented 76%, 86% and 91%, respectively, of our total revenues for such periods. Liz Lange and Completely Me by Liz Lange Liz Lange has gained wide acceptance as a modern "maternity and beyond" designer brand that brings women versatile, comfortable, affordable and flattering style for every stage of pregnancy. Liz Lange maternity apparel debuted in over 1,500 Target stores in the United States in 2002 and continues to be sold exclusively in Target stores in the United States. During 2010, Completely Me by Liz Lange was launched exclusively on the Home Shopping Network in the United States and The Shopping Channel in Canada. The Completely Me brand consists of sophisticated and comfortable casual clothing and sportswear for women. We acquired the Liz Lange brands in September 2012. Hawk and Tony Hawk Tony Hawk, among the most well-known athletes in skateboarding history, is the founder of the Tony Hawk clothing line. Designed for comfort, flexibility and durability, the clothing line is designed to embody the "skate culture" lifestyle, combining style and performance. We acquired the Hawk and Tony Hawk brands in January 2014, which further expands our presence in department store and specialty channels of distribution. The brand is, and we expect will continue to be, exclusively licensed in the United States to Kohl's, with Tony Hawk clothing and accessories sold in Kohl's department stores and online. Separate wholesale license agreements are in place to supply Hawk and Tony Hawk signature apparel in Canada and we intend to secure additional licensees to expand these brands globally. Licensing revenues for our Hawk and Tony Hawk brands totaled $4.9 million in Fiscal 2015, which represented 14% or our total revenues for such period. Sideout Conceived in 1983 by a California volleyball player, our owned Sideout brand took root at the beach, harnessing the easy spirit of a casual California lifestyle. Ideal for a game of beach volleyball or a breezy vacation, Sideout products perform in quality, functionality and originality by offering casual, hip and cool clothing, footwear and accessories at affordable prices. Carole Little Carole Little was founded in 1975 by designer Carole Little through her love for contemporary clothing. Our Carole Little owned brand became recognized for colorful and unusual prints, soft two-piece outfits and dresses. The Carole Little brand has an ageless, independent attitude for the self-confident woman. Represented Brands Àle by Alessandra Inspired by the life and style of global international fashion icon Alessandra Ambrosio, the àle by alessandra brand brings a "Brazil-bohemia meet Malibu-chic" collection of feminine, colorful and effortless apparel to savvy, fashion-minded women around the world. Like Alessandra, the àle by alessandra customer has a personal style that is casual, chic and effortlessly cool. We are representing the àle by alessandra brand, which debuted at Planet Blue and at Lunada Bay in 2014. Beginning in spring of 2015, Oxford Ophthalmic, Physician Endorsed and Esquire Footwear are debuting lines of àle by alessandra eyewear, hats, totes and casual footwear. 5 Table of Contents Royalties Our rights to receive royalties for sales of products bearing our brands are set forth in the terms of our license agreements with various retailers and wholesalers. Generally, royalty rates for our DTR licenses vary as a percentage of the retailer's net sales of licensed products. In some cases, royalty rates are calculated based upon fixed percentages of product sales. In other cases, the royalty rates we receive may decrease depending on the retailer's annual sales of licensed products and the retailer's guaranteed annual sales of licensed products, which decreased royalty rate would not apply retroactively to sales since the beginning of the applicable fiscal year. For instance, our arrangement with Target provides for, with respect to certain product categories, royalty rate reductions once specified cumulative levels of sales for Cherokee branded products in these product categories are achieved by Target during each fiscal year and, with respect to other product categories, fixed royalty rates that apply irrespective of sales volume. The royalty rates we receive from our licensees vary depending on the terms of each licensing agreement. In most cases, we require the licensee to guarantee a minimum dollar amount of retail sales. These minimum guarantees require our licensees to pay us a minimum royalty each year. In the case of Target, its minimum royalty payment was $10.5 million for Fiscal 2014 and 2015. As of January 31, 2015, we had contractual rights to receive over $60 million forward-facing minimum royalty revenues over the next several years, excluding any revenues that may be guaranteed in connection with contract renewals. Our rights to such contractual minimums are primarily the result of our license agreement with Target for our Cherokee brand, which extends through January 2017, and our license agreement with Kohl's for the Hawk and Tony Hawk brands, which extends through January 2018. Royalties are generally paid within 30 days after a quarterly selling period that has been defined in the applicable license agreement. In order to ensure our licensees are reporting and calculating the appropriate royalties, all of our license agreements grant us the right to audit our licensees' retail sales data for our brands to validate the amount of the royalties paid. Licensees We have licensed our brands and the brands we represent to numerous different retailers and wholesalers. Two of our most significant Direct to Retail licensees are Target and Kohl's. Target Pursuant to one of our license agreements with Target, Target maintains exclusive rights to the Cherokee brand in various specified categories of merchandise in the U.S. Our U.S. license with Target, which excludes sales of Cherokee branded products in Canada, Cherokee branded adult products sold on Target's website and Cherokee branded products sold in the school uniforms category, provides for reduced royalty rates based on volume thresholds once specified cumulative levels of retail sales are achieved during each fiscal year. These royalty rate reductions do not apply retroactively to Target's retail sales since the beginning of the year, but rather apply only to sales made during the applicable fiscal year subsequent to the achievement of the specified sales volume. Our license with Target governing sales of Cherokee branded adult products sold on Target's website and Cherokee branded products sold in the school uniforms category provides for a fixed royalty rate based on Target's net sales of products during each fiscal quarter. In January 2015, Target announced its decision to discontinue its operations in Canada. 6 Table of Contents Our license agreement with Target for Cherokee branded products was amended in January 2013 to include a multi-year license in the category of school uniforms, following our acquisition of such rights from a third party. The license agreement was further amended in April 2013 to provide for a fixed royalty rate for sales of Cherokee branded products in the adult merchandise category made through Target's website. The license agreement was again amended in January 2014 to renew and extend its term through January 31, 2017. In addition, Target now has the right to renew the Target license agreement for successive two-year periods, provided that it satisfied the minimum guaranteed royalty payment of $10.5 million for the preceding fiscal year. During September 2012, we assumed an additional license agreement with Target covering sales of Liz Lange branded products in the U.S. Pursuant to such agreement, Target is obligated to pay us a fixed royalty rate based on Target's net sales of products bearing this brand. Royalty revenues from Target U.S. for the Cherokee brand, which excludes sales of Cherokee branded products in Canada and Cherokee branded products sold in the school uniforms category were $15.0 million during Fiscal 2015, $15.3 million during Fiscal 2014 and $15.0 million during Fiscal 2013, which accounted for 43%, 53%, and 57%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues during such periods. The termination of our license agreement with Target for Cherokee branded products would have a material adverse effect on our business. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors". Kohl's In connection with our acquisition of the Hawk and Tony Hawk brands in January 2014, Cherokee entered into a retail license agreement with Kohl's. Pursuant to this license agreement, Kohl's maintains exclusive rights to the Hawk and Tony Hawk signature apparel brands in various specified categories of merchandise in the U.S. Our license with Kohl's provides for reduced royalty rates based on volume thresholds once specified cumulative levels of retail sales are achieved during each fiscal year. The royalty rate reductions do not apply retroactively to Kohl's retail sales since the beginning of the year, but rather apply only to sales made during the applicable fiscal year subsequent to the achievement of the specified sales volume. The current term of the license agreement with Kohl's continues through January 31, 2018, and obligates Kohl's to pay Cherokee an annual minimum guaranteed royalty of $4.8 million. Other Licensees We have continuing international license agreements for the Cherokee brand and our other brands with leading retailers in over fifty countries. We license to retailers such as RT Mart, Comercial Mexicana, and Nishimatsuya. We have also entered into a new Direct to Retail licensing agreement with Argos, a subsidiary of Home Retail Group plc, to launch a broad assortment of Cherokee lifestyle products online, in catalog and in more than 750 Argos stores across the United Kingdom and Ireland in the fall of 2015. Trademarks We hold various trademarks, including Cherokee®, Liz Lange®, Completely Me by Liz Lange®, Hawk®, Tony Hawk®, Sideout®, Sideout Sport®, Carole Little®, Saint Tropez-West®, Chorus Line®, All That Jazz® and others, in connection with numerous categories of apparel and other goods. These trademarks are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and corresponding government agencies in a number of other countries. We also hold trademark applications for each of these brand names in numerous countries. Our business is dependent upon our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We monitor on an ongoing basis unauthorized uses of our trademarks, and we rely primarily upon a combination of trademark, know-how, trade secrets, and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property rights both domestically and internationally. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors". 7 Table of Contents Competition Royalties paid to us pursuant to our licensing agreements are generally based on a percentage of the licensee's net sales of licensed products. Our owned and represented Cherokee, Liz Lange, Completely Me by Liz Lange, Hawk, Tony Hawk, Sideout, Carole Little, àle by alessandra and other brands are subject to intense competition by numerous domestic and foreign brands. Competitors with respect to the Cherokee brand include Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Liz Claiborne and private label brands (developed by retailers) such as Faded Glory, Arizona, Merona and Route 66. Factors which shape the competitive environment include quality of garment construction and design, brand name, style and color selection, price, fashion and other trends, avenue of purchase (including in stores and online), and the manufacturer's ability to respond quickly to the retailer on a national basis. In recognition of what we believe is an increasing trend towards consolidation of retailers and what appears to be a de-emphasis by retailers on the manufacture of private label merchandise, our business plan in the United States focuses on creating strategic alliances with major retailers for their sale of products bearing our brands through the licensing of our trademarks directly to retailers. Therefore, our degree of success is dependent on the strength of our brands, consumer acceptance of and desire for our brands, and our licensees' ability to design, manufacture and sell products bearing our brands and to respond to ever-changing consumer demands. We also face competition from other companies owning established trademarks, such as Iconix Brand Group, Phillips-Van Heusen, Perry Ellis International and VF Corp., which have entered into, and could continue to enter into, similar arrangements with retailers in the U.S. and internationally, including with our existing retail partners, thereby competing with us for consumer attention and limited floor and rack space in the same stores in which our branded products are sold. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors". Seasonality We have agreed to certain contractual royalty rate reductions with our two most significant licensees, Target and Kohl's, for sales of certain Cherokee branded products and Hawk and Tony Hawk branded products in various product categories in the U.S. in each fiscal year, which apply for future sales during the applicable fiscal year as certain sales volume thresholds are achieved. Historically, this has caused our first quarter to be our highest revenue and profitability quarter and our fourth quarter to be our lowest revenue and profitability quarter. However, such historical patterns and seasonal trends may vary significantly in future periods, depending upon retail sales volumes achieved in each quarter by Target and Kohl's, the revenues we receive from Target and our other licensees that are not subject to reduced royalty rates based upon cumulative sales, and the terms of any new license agreements. Employees As of January 31, 2015, we employed forty-one persons based solely in the United States. None of our employees are represented by labor unions, and we believe that our employee relations are satisfactory. Code of Ethics We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to the Company's directors, officers, employees and manufacturers that produce products on behalf of our licensees. A copy of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report. Segment Information We consider our business activities to constitute a single segment. A summary of our revenues and assets by geographic area is set forth in Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. We face risks attendant to our foreign operations. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors". 8 Table of Contents SEC Filings We make our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") available free of charge on our website at www.cherokeeglobalbrands.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we file these materials with, or furnish them to, the SEC. You can also read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You can obtain additional information about the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including us. 9 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table sets forth information with respect to each of our current executive officers. Name, Age and Present Position with Cherokee Principal Occupation for Past Five Years; Business Experience Henry Stupp, 51 Chief Executive Officer, Director Mr. Stupp became our Chief Executive Officer in August 2010. Prior to joining Cherokee, Mr. Stupp was a co-founder of Montreal based Novel Teez Designs, later known as NTD Apparel USA LLC, a leading licensee of entertainment, character, sport and branded apparel and a supplier to many major North American retailers. Mr. Stupp served as President of NTD Apparel USA LLC from 2005 until 2010. During his tenure with NTD, he successfully identified, negotiated, and introduced many well-known licenses and brands to a broad retail audience. Mr. Stupp is currently serving a two year term as a Director of the International Licensing Industry Merchandiser's Association. In addition, Mr. Stupp attended Concordia University where he majored in Economics. Howard Siegel, 60 President and Chief Operating Officer Mr. Siegel has been employed by us since January 1996 as Vice President of Operations and Administration and became President on June 1, 1998. As of January 2010, Mr. Siegel was also appointed as our Chief Operating Officer. Prior to January 1996, Mr. Siegel had a long tenure in the apparel business industry working as a senior executive for Federated Department stores and Carter Hawley Hale Broadway stores. Mr. Siegel attended the University of Florida where he received his Bachelor of Science. Jason Boling, 44 Chief Financial Officer Mr. Boling became our Chief Financial Officer in March 2013. Prior to joining Cherokee, he was Vice President of Finance and Accounting at DTS Inc., a leader in high-definition audio technologies and audio enhancement solutions, for over six years. Mr. Boling has broad domestic and international experience in mergers & acquisitions, acquisition integration, strategic planning, budgeting, Sarbanes-Oxley compliance and controls, investor relations, and tax planning. For four years prior to his tenure with DTS, he was the Vice President and Corporate Controller at Inamed Corporation, a global manufacturer of medical devices, and he spent many years in public accounting, including with accounting firm Deloitte & Touche LLP. Mr. Boling is a California CPA, and he earned his bachelor's degree in Business Administration from California State University Northridge. 10 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained herein or incorporated herein by reference, the risks and uncertainties and other factors described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and share price and could also cause our future business, financial condition and results of operations to differ materially from the results contemplated by any forward-looking statement we may make herein, in any other document we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or in any press release or other written or oral statement we may make. The risks described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report are not the only ones we face. Additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business is subject to intense competition. Royalties paid to us under our licensing agreements are generally based on a percentage of our licensee's net sales of licensed products. Cherokee, Carole Little and Sideout brand footwear, apparel, and accessories, together with merchandise bearing our Liz Lange, Completely Me by Liz Lange, Hawk and Tony Hawk brands, all of which are manufactured and sold by both domestic and international wholesalers and retail licensees, are subject to extensive competition by numerous domestic and foreign companies. Such competitors with respect to the Cherokee brand include Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Liz Claiborne, and private label brands (developed by retailers) such as Faded Glory, Arizona, Merona, and Route 66. Factors which shape the competitive environment include quality of garment construction and design, brand name, style and color selection, price, fashion and other trends, avenue of purchase (including in stores and online), and the manufacturer's ability to respond quickly to the retailer on a national basis. In recognition of what we believe is an increasing trend towards consolidation of retailers and what appears to be a de-emphasis by retailers on the manufacture of private label merchandise, our business plan in the United States focuses on creating strategic alliances with major retailers for their sale of products bearing our brands through the licensing of our trademarks directly to retailers. Therefore, our degree of success is dependent on the strength of our brands, consumer acceptance of and desire for our brands, and our licensees' ability to design, manufacture and sell products bearing our brands and to respond to ever-changing consumer demands. Failures with respect to any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We cannot control the level of consumer acceptance of our brands and changing preferences and trends may lead customers to purchase other products. Further, we cannot control the level of resources that our licensees commit to supporting our brands, and our licensees may choose to support other brands to the detriment of our brands because our license agreements generally do not prevent our licensees from licensing from our competitors. In addition, we complete with other companies owning established trademarks, which have entered into, and could continue to enter into, similar arrangements with retailers in the U.S. and internationally, including with our existing retail partners, thereby competing with us for consumer attention and limited floor and rack space in the same stores in which our branded products are sold. We are subject to risks related to the retail business that are applicable to our licensees. There are numerous risks and other factors applicable to the businesses of retailers (including our licensees) that can impact the sale of products that bear our brands. Any decline in sales by one or more of our licensees can adversely affect our revenues. 11 Table of Contents Factors that may adversely affect our licensees and their sales of products bearing our brands include the following, among others: (i) weather, environmental or other conditions that may impact consumer shopping activity in retail stores; (ii) consumer preferences regarding fashion trends and styles, which can be region-dependent and subject to rapid and significant fluctuations; (iii) consumer preferences regarding where to shop; (iv) the growth of online shopping and the ability of our licensees to market and sell our branded products through these avenues; (v) changes in the availability or cost of capital in light of the financial condition and capital requirements of our licensees; (vi) shifts in the seasonality of shopping patterns; (vii) declining retail prices; (viii) labor strikes or other interruptions that impact supply chains and transport vendors, such as the recent labor strikes impacting ports in California and the Pacific Northwest and products that move through these channels; (ix) the impact of excess retail capacity; (x) changes in the cost of accepting various payment methods and changes in the rate of utilization of these payment methods; (xi) material acquisitions or dispositions; (xii) investments in new business strategies; (xiii) the success or failure of significant new business ventures or technologies; (xiv) actions taken or omitted to be taken by legislative, regulatory, judicial and other governmental authorities and officials; (xv) security breaches; (xvi) natural disasters, the outbreak of war, acts of terrorism or other significant national or international events; and (xvii) the other risks discussed in this Item 1A. For example, we believe that sales of Cherokee branded products at Target in the United States after the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2014 were adversely impacted following Target's announcement of unauthorized access to payment card data in U.S. stores, which resulted in fewer revenues to Cherokee than we otherwise may have received from Target absent such announcement. We rely on the accuracy of our licensees' retail sales reports for reporting and collecting our revenues, and if these reports are untimely or incorrect, our revenues could be delayed or inaccurately reported. Most of our revenues are generated from retailers who license our brands for manufacture and sale of products bearing our brands in their stores and on their websites. Under our existing agreements, these licensees pay us licensing fees based in part on the retail value of products sold. We rely on our licensees to accurately report the retail sales in collecting our license fees, preparing our financial reports, projections and budgets, and directing our sales and marketing efforts. All of our license agreements permit us to audit our licensees. If any of our licensee reports understate the retail sales of products they sell, we may not collect and recognize revenues to which we are entitled, or may endure significant expense to obtain compliance. Our business is dependent on the success of our Direct to Retail licensing model. In Direct to Retail licensing, we grant retailers a license to use our trademarks on certain categories of merchandise. In many cases, the licensee is responsible for designing and manufacturing the merchandise, although we typically collaborate with our licensees' product development staff and merchandisers on design direction, packaging, marketing, and other aspects pertaining to the products sold with our trademarks. Over the past two decades, the Direct to Retail licensing model has become more widely accepted by many retailers worldwide, and our business plan is largely based on the continued success of this model with our current licensees and with new retailers we may solicit to license our brands in new territories and additional product categories as we seek to expand our business. Although we believe there are increasing trends towards consolidation of retailers and de-emphasis on the manufacture of private label merchandise, which would support the growth of our Direct to Retail licensing model, this belief may turn out to be wrong. If our current or potential future retail licensees do not perceive our Direct to Retail licensing model to be advantageous to them, then they may move away from this model and instead embrace alternatives, such as purchasing from wholesalers or manufacturing private label products. Such a change in perception could occur for a variety of reasons, including reasons based on retailers' beliefs or expectations that do not turn out to be accurate. 12 Table of Contents If our Direct to Retail licensing model ceases to be attractive to retailers, then we would be unable to continue to pursue our business plan and our financial condition and prospects would be severely harmed. Our business is largely dependent on royalties from Target. Royalty revenues from our Cherokee brand at Target accounted for greater than 40% of our consolidated revenues during each of Fiscal 2015, Fiscal 2014, and Fiscal 2013. We could suffer substantially decreased royalty revenues and cash flow if Target were to reduce its sales of Cherokee branded products, even if Target continues to pay the minimum annual royalty of $10.5 million required under our license agreement with Target. For instance, in January 2015, Target announced the discontinuation of its operations in Canada. Moreover, any further limitations of Target's operations could severely reduce its sales of products bearing our brands and its royalty payments to us. Replacing the royalty payments received from Target would be a significant challenge and we might not be successful in doing so, and the termination of this license agreement, which currently extends through January 31, 2017, would have a material adverse effect upon our revenues and cash flow. In addition, in September 2012 we expanded our relationship with Target as a result of our assumption of an additional license agreement with Target for the Liz Lange brand, which we assumed in connection with our acquisition of assets related to such brand. We further expanded our relationship with Target in connection with our January 2013 acquisition of rights to the Cherokee brand in the category of school uniforms. We acquired the Liz Lange brand as well as our rights to the Cherokee brand for the school uniforms category in part based upon our expectation that revenues from Target for this brand and the school uniforms category will grow in future periods, although such revenue growth may never occur. As a result of our reliance on Target, our continued success is dependent on various factors affecting Target's business, including, for example, perceptions of Target by consumers in the United States. For example, we believe that sales of Cherokee branded products at Target in the United States after the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2014 were adversely impacted following Target's announcement of unauthorized access to payment card data in U.S. stores. Revenues from our Hawk and Tony Hawk brands depend entirely on Kohl's. In January 2014, we acquired the Hawk and Tony Hawk brands from Quiksilver, Inc. Concurrently with this acquisition, we entered into a retail license agreement with Kohl's , pursuant to which Kohl's is granted the exclusive right to sell Tony Hawk and Hawk-branded apparel and related products in the United States. We agreed to this exclusive license in part based upon our expectation that revenues from Kohl's for such brands will grow in future periods, although this expectation may turn out to be wrong and such revenue growth may never occur beyond the $4.8 million minimum annual royalty guaranteed under the license agreement. The failure of our licensees to sell products bearing our brands or to pay us royalties for such products could result in a decline in our results of operations. Our revenues are dependent on royalty payments made to us under our licensing agreements. Although the licensing agreements for our brands in most cases provide for guaranteed minimum royalty payments to us, the failure of our licensees to satisfy their obligations under these agreements or their inability to grow or maintain their businesses could cause our revenues to suffer. Further, while we are substantially dependent on our relationships with Target and Kohl's, the concurrent failure by several of our other material licensees to meet their financial obligations to us could materially and adversely impact our results of operation and our financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Our business may be negatively impacted by general economic conditions. Our performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and its corresponding impact on levels of consumer spending, which may affect our licensees' sales. It is difficult to predict future levels of consumer spending and any such predictions are inherently uncertain. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel industries, including, among others, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, energy costs, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. During periods of economic uncertainty, we may not be able to maintain or increase our revenues. As a result, our operating results may be materially affected by trends in the United States or global economy. The worldwide apparel industry is heavily influenced by general economic cycles. Purchases of apparel, footwear and accessories tend to decline in periods of recession or uncertainty regarding future economic prospects, as disposable income typically declines. As a result, the risks associated with our business are generally more acute during periods of economic slowdown or recession. In addition to decreased consumer spending generally, these periods may be accompanied by decreased demand for, or additional downward pricing pressure on, the products carrying our brands. Accordingly, any prolonged economic slowdown or a lengthy or severe recession with respect to either the U.S. or the global economy is likely to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. We are subject to additional risks associated with our international licensees. We market and license our brands outside the United States. Many of our licensees are located outside the United States. As a key component of our business strategy, we intend to expand our international sales as well as the support we provide our international licensees. During Fiscal 2015, greater than 30% of our revenues were derived from our international licensees. We face numerous risks in doing business outside the United States, including: (i) unusual or burdensome foreign laws or regulatory requirements or unexpected changes to those laws or requirements; (ii) tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, trade embargos, and other trade barriers; (iii) difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified personnel to manage foreign licensees; (iv) competition from foreign companies; (v) longer accounts receivable collection cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; (vi) less effective and less predictable protection and enforcement of our intellectual property; (vii) changes in the political or economic condition of a specific country or region, particularly in emerging markets; (viii) fluctuations in the value of foreign currency versus the U.S. dollar and the cost of currency exchange; (ix) potentially adverse tax consequences; and (x) cultural differences in the conduct of business. Any one or more of such factors could cause our future international sales to decline or could cause us to fail to execute on our business strategy involving international expansion. In addition, our business practices in international markets are subject to the requirements of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, any violation of which could subject us to significant fines, criminal sanctions and other penalties. Additionally, and because the majority of our international revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currencies of our international licensees' operations may negatively impact our royalty revenues. The main foreign currencies we encounter in our operations are the Mexican Peso, the EURO, the Great British Pound, the South African Rand, the Japanese Yen, the Chinese Yuan, and the Canadian Dollar. We do not currently engage in currency hedging activities to limit the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. 14 Table of Contents Our business and the success of our products could be harmed if we are unable to maintain the strength of our brands. Our success to date has been due in large part to the strength of our brands. If we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to changing consumer demand, the strength of our brands may be impaired. Even if we react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, consumers may consider one or more of our brands to be outdated or associate one or more of our brands with styles that are no longer popular. In the past, many apparel companies have experienced periods of rapid growth in sales and earnings followed by periods of declining sales and losses. Our business may be similarly affected in the future. We are dependent on our intellectual property, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully protect our rights or that we will not become involved in costly legal proceedings regarding our intellectual property. We hold various trademarks for our brands, including Cherokee, Liz Lange, Completely Me by Liz Lange, Hawk, Tony Hawk, Sideout and Carole Little and others in connection with apparel, footwear, home and accessories. These trademarks are vital to the success and future growth of our business. These trademarks are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and corresponding government agencies in numerous other countries and we also hold trademark applications for these brands in a number of other countries, although the laws of many countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. These actions taken by us to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights might not prevent imitation of our products, infringement of our intellectual property rights by unauthorized parties or other challenges to our intellectual property ownership, or prevent the loss of licensing revenue or other damages caused thereby. If any of these events occurs, our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be materially harmed. In the future, we may be required to assert infringement claims against third parties, and one or more parties may assert infringement claims against us. Any resulting litigation could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our management personnel whether or not such litigation is determined in our favor. Further, if any adverse ruling in any such matter occurs, any resulting limitations in our ability to market or license our brands could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may become involved in other litigation and administrative proceedings that may materially affect us. From time to time, we may become involved in various legal proceedings relating to matters incidental to the ordinary course of our business, including commercial, employment, class action, whistleblower and other litigation and claims, as well as governmental and other regulatory investigations, audits and proceedings. Such matters can be time-consuming, divert management's attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. Furthermore, because litigation is inherently unpredictable, the results of any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are dependent on our key management personnel. Our success is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key executives, including, Henry Stupp, our Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board or Directors, Howard Siegel, our President and Chief Operating Officer, and Jason Boling, our Chief Financial Officer. We have a limited number of employees and Mr. Stupp's and our other executives' leadership and experience in the apparel licensing industry is important to the successful implementation of our business and marketing strategy. We do not carry key person life insurance covering any of our executives. The loss of the services of Mr. Stupp or our other key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 15 Table of Contents We may encounter difficulties in connection with acquisitions or other strategic transactions and we may not realize the expected benefits from these transactions. We regularly evaluate opportunities to acquire or represent new brands. During the past three years, we have consummated three such acquisitions: our acquisition of the Liz Lange brands in September 2012; our acquisition of various rights to the Cherokee brand in the category of school uniforms in January 2013; and our acquisition of the Hawk and Tony Hawk signature apparel brands in January 2014. In addition, in February 2013, we commenced a relationship with Alessandra Ambrosio to market and represent her brand àle by alessandra. We expect to continue to consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other brands or to engage in other strategic transactions that could enhance our portfolio of products and services or expand the breadth of our markets. Our history of acquiring and integrating acquisitions is limited, and we may not be successful in realizing the expected benefits from an acquisition. Future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage an expanded portfolio of brands, which could pose substantial challenges for management. Acquisitions and other strategic transactions can involve numerous risks and potential difficulties, including, among others: (i) problems assimilating the brands; (ii) significant future charges relating the amortization of intangible assets; (iii) problems maintaining and enforcing standards, procedures, controls, policies and information systems; (iv) difficulty and cost in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel, and inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses; (v) unanticipated costs associated with an acquisition, including accounting and legal charges, capital expenditures, and transaction expenses; (vi) diversion of management's attention from our core business or our existing brand portfolio; (vii) adverse effects on existing business relationships with our partners; and (viii) risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience. Accordingly, our recent acquisitions as well as any future transaction that we pursue could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. In addition, future acquisitions may also require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available when needed, on favorable terms or at all. If we finance future acquisitions or other strategic transactions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders would be diluted. If we finance future acquisitions or other strategic transactions by issuing debt, we may become over-levered and our ability to operate the Company may be restricted by the agreements governing the debt. In addition, we may experience or incur contingent liabilities, amortization expenses or write-offs of goodwill or trademarks in connection with such transactions. Any of these effects could harm our operating results or financial condition. We have incurred a significant amount of indebtedness to pay the cash consideration for our recent acquisitions. Our level of indebtedness, and covenant restrictions under such indebtedness, could adversely affect our operations and liquidity. In order to fund our acquisition of the Liz Lange brands, we entered into a credit facility with JPMorgan on September 4, 2012. We initially increased the size of our credit facility on January 31, 2013 in connection with our acquisition of rights related to the Cherokee brand in the school uniforms category. We further increased the size of our credit facility on January 10, 2014 in connection with our acquisition of various assets related to the Hawk and Tony Hawk signature apparel brands. The size of our credit facility currently totals $37.6 million, of which approximately $25 million was outstanding as of January 31, 2015, and is evidenced by (i) two five -year term notes, which were issued on January 31, 2013 and January 10, 2014 in the principal amounts of $16.6 million and $19 million, respectively, and (ii) a three -year revolving line of credit, pursuant to which we may borrow up to $2 million in principal. 16 Table of Contents Our indebtedness under the credit facility could adversely affect our operations and liquidity, by, among other things: making it more difficult for us to pay or refinance our debts as they become due during adverse economic and industry conditions because we may not have sufficient cash flows to make our scheduled debt payments; causing us to use a larger portion of our cash flow to fund interest and principal payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash to fund working capital, product development and capital expenditures and other business activities; making it more difficult for us to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities or other strategic transactions, and to react to changes in market or industry conditions; and limiting our ability to borrow additional monies in the future to fund working capital, product development, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. In addition, the terms of our indebtedness contain various restrictions and covenants regarding the operation of our business, including covenants that require us to obtain JPMorgan's consent before we can: (i) incur additional indebtedness, (ii) consummate acquisitions, mergers or consolidations, (iii) issue any equity securities other than pursuant to our employee equity incentive plans or programs, or (iv) repurchase or redeem any outstanding shares of common stock or pay dividends or other distributions, other than stock dividends, to our stockholders. The credit facility also imposes financial covenants, including a minimum "fixed charge coverage ratio" of at least 1.2 to 1.0 and a limitation of our "senior funded debt ratio" to not exceed a ratio equal to (i) 2.25 to 1.00 through our fiscal quarter ending January 31, 2016, and (ii) 2.00 to 1.00 thereafter. Further, as collateral for the credit facility, we granted a security interest in favor of JPMorgan in all of our assets (including trademarks), and our indebtedness is guaranteed by Cherokee's wholly owned subsidiaries. In the event of a default under the credit facility, JPMorgan has the right to terminate its obligations under the credit facility, accelerate the payment on any unpaid balance of the credit facility and exercise its other rights including foreclosing on our assets under the related security agreements. Our failure to comply with the terms of our indebtedness could result in a material adverse effect to our business, including our financial condition and our liquidity. Our future capital needs may be uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future, and such funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Our capital requirements in future periods may be uncertain and could depend upon many factors, including: acceptance of, and demand for, our brands; the costs of developing new brands; the extent to which we invest in new brands; the number and timing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions; the costs associated with our expansion, if any; and the costs of litigation and enforcement activities to defend our trademarks. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds, and such funds may not be available when needed, on favorable terms, or at all. Furthermore, if we issue equity or convertible debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders, and if we incur additional debt to raise funds, we may become over-levered and our ability to operate the Company may be restricted by the agreements governing the debt. Moreover, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital transactions, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. If we cannot raise funds when needed and on acceptable terms, or at all, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products and services, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. This may materially harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Our strategic and marketing initiatives may not be successful. In recent periods, we have invested significant funds and management time in furtherance of our global strategic and marketing initiatives, which are designed to strengthen our brands, assist our licensees in generating increased sales of Cherokee branded products and products bearing our other brands and build value for our stockholders over the long term. We expect to continue and, in some cases, expand such initiatives in future periods. While we are hopeful that our efforts in executing on these initiatives will expand our business and build stockholder value over the long term, we may not be successful in doing so and such initiatives may not result in the intended benefits. Any failure by us to execute on our strategic initiatives, or the failure of such initiatives to cause our revenues to grow, could have a materially adverse impact on our operating results and financial performance. We may not pay dividends regularly or at all in the future. The determination regarding the payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors, and there we may not pay any dividends in future periods, whether or not we generate sufficient cash to do so. In addition, pursuant to our credit facility with JPMorgan, we are prohibited from paying dividends without JPMorgan's consent and in the event that we would be in violation of our covenant regarding our "fixed charge coverage ratio" after giving effect to any proposed dividend or are otherwise then in default of such agreement. We must successfully maintain and/or upgrade our information technology systems. We rely on various information technology systems, including our Enterprise Resource Planning system, to manage our operations, which subjects us to inherent costs and risks associated with maintaining, upgrading, replacing and changing these systems, including impairment of our information technology, potential disruption of our internal control systems, substantial capital expenditures, demands on management time and other risks of delays or difficulties in upgrading, transitioning to new systems or of integrating new systems into our current systems. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of cybersecurity and other system failures. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our licensees are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Although we have not experienced any such cybersecurity or system failure, accident or breach to date, some of our licensees, including Target, have experienced such events. If such an event were to occur to our internal systems, it could result in a material disruption of our operations, substantial costs to rectify or correct the failure, if possible, loss of or damage to our data or applications, inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, or the incurrence of other material liabilities. If additional such events were to occur to our licensees' systems, our royalty revenues could be reduced or disrupted due to decreased sales of our branded products as a result of reputational damage or diversion of costs and other resources from selling products bearing our brands. Any of these events could severely harm our business, results of operations and prospects. The trading price of our stock may be volatile and shares of our common stock are relatively illiquid. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be subject to fluctuations as a result of various factors impacting our business, including (i) our financial results, (ii) announcements by us, our retail partners or by our competitors, as applicable, regarding or affecting the retail environment either domestically or internationally, our existing license agreements, our existing brand representations, new license agreements, new brand representations or acquisition, strategic alliances or other transactions, (iii) recruitment or departure of key personnel, (iv) changes in the estimates of our financial results or changes in the recommendations of any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock, and (v) market conditions in the retail industry and the economy as a whole. 18 Table of Contents Further, as a result of our relatively small public float, our common stock may be less liquid than the common stock of companies with broader public ownership. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of our common shares may have a greater impact on the trading price for our shares than would be the case if our public float were larger. Our Certificate of Incorporation allows our Board of Directors to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of "blank check" preferred stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation allows our Board of Directors to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of "blank check" preferred stock, without action by our stockholders. Subject to the approval of JPMorgan pursuant to our credit facility, such shares of preferred stock may be issued on terms determined by our Board of Directors in its discretion, and may have rights, privileges and preferences superior to those of our common stock. For instance, such shares of preferred stock could have liquidation rights that are senior to the liquidation preference applicable to our common stock, could have superior voting or conversion rights, which could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock, or could have other terms that negatively impact the voting control or other rights of our common stockholders. Additionally, the ownership interest of holders of our common stock would be diluted following the issuance of any shares of our preferred stock. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our net income. We are subject to income taxes in the United States. Our effective income tax rates could in the future be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those tax laws, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We may come under audit by tax authorities, where these authorities may evaluate and disagree with our judgments regarding our tax provisions. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Based on the results of an audit or litigation, a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. In addition, changes in tax rules may adversely affect our future reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. We previously identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if repeated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act. Management has previously identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of Fiscal 2013 and during the first three quarters of Fiscal 2014. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. During Fiscal 2014, we developed and implemented a remediation plan that was designed to address these material weaknesses. While we believe our remedial measures have sufficiently addressed our previously identified material weaknesses, it is possible that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future. In this case, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results, which could lead to substantial additional costs for accounting and legal fees and litigation. 19 Table of Contents In addition, while we believe we have strengthened our controls and procedures, our current controls and procedures may not be adequate in future periods to prevent or identify irregularities or errors or to facilitate the fair presentation of our consolidated financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls in accordance with applicable standards, we may be unable to conclude in future periods that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in ensuring the reliability of our financial reports. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, our business and financial condition could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. Moreover, our reputation with lenders, retailers, investors, securities analysts and others may be adversely affected. Compliance with changing securities laws, regulations and financial reporting standards will increase our costs and pose challenges for our management team. Existing, changing and new laws, regulations, listing requirements and other standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure create uncertainty for public companies and significantly increase the costs and risks associated with operating as a publicly traded company in the United States. Our management team devotes significant time and financial resources to comply with existing and evolving standards for public companies. Further, the SEC has passed, promulgated and proposed new rules on a variety of subjects including, for example, with respect to the preparation and filing of our financial statements. The existence of new and proposed laws and regulations relating to our financial reporting or that impose additional or more stringent compliance requirements on us could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. In addition, in order to comply with existing and any new or additional requirements, we may need to add additional accounting staff, engage consultants or change our internal practices, standards and policies, which could significantly increase our costs and divert the time and attention of our management team away from revenue generating activities. Notwithstanding our efforts, it is possible in future periods that our financial and other public reporting may not be considered timely, accurate or complete. If reporting delays or errors actually occur, we could be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC, which could adversely affect our financial results or result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial information and other public disclosures, and could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 