ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our operating results, our financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Annual Report. Our success will depend on our success in increasing sales, opening and operating our retail stores and expanding our product offerings. Our ability to operate profitably depends on our ability to implement our strategic plan with success. During fiscal 2010, we recognized growth for our Joe's® brand through increases in our international sales, our men's and women's domestic and retail sales and by diversifying our product offering to include products such as shirts, tees and pants. We sell our Joe's® products internationally through individual distribution and agent agreements in various countries. In addition, for countries such as Japan, we have specific distribution and licensing agreements to distribute, develop and manufacture products specifically for the Japanese market. We believe that by working directly with our distributors and agents abroad, we can exercise more control and guidance over sales. From season to season, we have expanded our product offering by offering a variety of products other than denim bottoms. For example, we offered a full collection of fashion items for both men and women, such as woven shirts, leggings, outerwear, cashmere scarves, knit tops and sweaters, fashion jackets, trouser pants in fabrics other than denim and other licensed product categories. We believed that offering additional products would create synergy and allow us to generate additional revenue due to brand name recognition established by our denim business. In addition, by providing a more extensive array of products, we believed it would assist us in creating successful retail stores. We opened our first retail stores during fiscal 2008 and have an avenue to showcase our other products and increase our sales channels. Currently, we operate four full price stores and 13 outlets. We also expect to enter into additional leases and open additional stores throughout 2011 in various locations throughout the country. We believe that the retail stores will enhance our net sales and gross profit and the outlet stores will allow us to sell our overstock or slow moving items at higher profit margins. We continue to look for other retail leases, but remain cautious about our retail store plans. Since we have primarily been a wholesaler, opening and operating retail stores requires us to develop retailing skills and capabilities and increase our expenditures. We will be required to enter into leases, increase our rental expenses and make capital expenditures for these stores. These commitments may be costly to terminate, and these investments may be difficult to recapture if we decide to close a store or change our strategy. We must also offer a broad product assortment, appropriately manage retail inventory levels, install and operate effective retail systems, execute effective pricing strategies and integrate our stores into our overall business mix. Finally, we will need to hire and train additional 10 Table of Contents qualified employees and incur additional costs to operate these stores, which will increase our operating expenses. If we do not manage these items properly, it could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. While we believe that we are putting in place the mechanisms necessary to implement successfully these strategies, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our level of expectations. Further, there can be no assurance that these initiatives will result in profitability for us in the short term or in the future. Leasing real estate exposes us to possible liabilities and losses. We enter into leases in connection with our retail stores. Accordingly, we are subject to all of the risks associated with leasing real estate. Store leases generally require us to pay a fixed minimum rent and a variable amount based on a percentage of annual sales at that location. We generally cannot terminate our leases and have restrictions in connection with assigning or subletting our leases. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may be committed to perform certain obligations under the applicable lease, including paying rent for the balance of the applicable lease term. As each of our leases expire, if we do not have a renewal option, we may be unable to renegotiate a renewal on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, which could cause us to close stores in desirable locations. In addition, we may not be able to close an unprofitable store due to an existing operating covenant, which may cause us to operate the location at a loss and prevent us from finding a more desirable location. Our business may be negatively impacted as a result of the current uncertainty in the United States' economy. The United States general economy has been in the midst of extraordinary economic uncertainty. Our business depends on the general economic environment and levels of consumer spending that affect not only the ultimate consumer, but also retailers, our largest direct customers. Purchases of high-fashion apparel and accessories tend to decline in periods of recession or uncertainty regarding future economic prospects, when consumer spending, particularly on discretionary items, and disposable income decline. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel industries, including, among others: prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, energy costs, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. During periods of recession or economic uncertainty, we may not be able to maintain or increase our sales to existing customers, make sales to new customers, open and operate new retail stores, or maintain or improve our earnings from operations as a percentage of net sales. As a result, our operating results may be adversely and materially affected by downward trends in the United States or global economy. The distress in the financial markets has also resulted in extreme volatility and declines in security prices and diminished liquidity and credit availability. There can be no assurance that our liquidity and our ability to access the credit or capital markets will not be affected by changes in the financial markets and the global economy. Continuing turmoil in the financial markets could make it more difficult for us to access capital, sell assets, refinance our existing indebtedness, enter into agreements for new indebtedness or obtain funding through the issuance of our securities. In addition, the reduced availability of credit is having a significant negative impact on businesses around the world, and the impact of this reduced availability on our suppliers and other vendors cannot be predicted. The inability of suppliers and other vendors to access liquidity, or the insolvency of suppliers and other vendors, could lead to their failure to deliver our merchandise or other services that we require. Worsening economic conditions could also impair our ability to collect amounts as they become due from our customers, or other third parties that do business with us. We also face the 11 Table of Contents increased risk of order reductions or cancellations when dealing with financially ailing customers or customers struggling with economic uncertainty. We face risks associated with constantly changing fashion trends, including consumer's response to our Joe's® brand. Our success will depend on our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond to changing consumer demand and fashion trends in a timely manner. Any failure on our part to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect the acceptance of our products and leave us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities in the marketplace. If that occurs, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which may negatively affect our ability to achieve profitability. At the same time, a focus on tight management of inventory may result, from time to time, in our not having an adequate supply of products to meet consumer demand and may cause us to lose sales. We attempt to minimize our risk associated with delivering items through early order commitments by retailers. We must generally place production orders with manufacturers before we have received all of a season's orders and orders may be cancelled by retailers before shipment. Therefore, if we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to consumer preferences, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories or lower profit margins, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business could be negatively impacted by a change in consumer demand for denim in the marketplace. Denim, including premium denim, an industry term for denim jeans with a typical retail price of approximately $120 or more, has been increasingly popular and growing in sales over the past few years as a consumer discretionary purchase both domestically and internationally. However, because consumer demands and fashion trends are subject to cyclical variations as well as the fact that the general economy and future economic prospects can often affect consumer spending habits, a change in any one of the following: •consumer demand, •consumer purchases of discretionary items, •general economic conditions, or •fashion trends, which may result in lower sales, excess inventories or lower profit margins for our Joe's® products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results operations and financial condition. We face intense competition in the denim industry. We face a variety of competitive challenges from other domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel producers, some of whom may be significantly larger and more diversified and have greater financial and marketing resources than we have. We do not currently hold a dominant competitive position in any market. We compete with other denim manufacturers such as True Religion, Seven for All Mankind, Citizens of Humanity, Rock & Republic and J Brand and other larger competitors primarily on the basis of: •anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner, •maintaining favorable brand recognition, •developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers, 12 Table of Contents •appropriately pricing products, •providing strong and effective marketing support, •creating an acceptable value proposition for retail customers, •ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with manufacturers and retailers, and •obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail. Furthermore, some of our competitors are privately held corporations and may have resources available to them that we, as a public company, do not have. Therefore, it may be difficult for us to effectively gauge consumer response to our products and how our products are competing with these and other competitors in the marketplace. A portion of our net sales and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers. Our 10 largest customers and customer groups accounted for approximately 62 percent of our net sales during fiscal 2010. We do not enter into any type of long-term agreements or firm commitment orders with any of our customers. Instead, we enter into a number of individual purchase order commitments with our customers. A decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, including our limited number of private label customers, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from us, or to change their manner of doing business with us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to find an alternative customer for our products in a timely manner. Our business could be negatively impacted by the financial health of our retail customers. We sell our product primarily to retail and distribution companies around the world based on pre-qualified payment terms. Financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail business with that customer, in addition to the customer's decision to decrease the level of its orders, to cancel orders previously placed in advance of shipment dates or to cease carrying our products. We may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer's receivables. We are dependent primarily on lines of credit that we establish from time to time with customers, and should a substantial number of customers become unable to pay to us their respective debts as they become due, we may be unable to collect some or all of the monies owed by those customers. In recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation or other ownership changes that have resulted in one entity controlling several different stores. This consolidation can result in fewer customers for our products or the closing of some stores or the number of "doors" which carry our products. As a result, the potential for consolidation or ownership changes, closing of retail outlets and fewer customers could negatively impact sales of our products and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business could suffer as a result of a manufacturer's inability to produce our goods on time and to our specifications or if we need to replace manufacturers. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third parties for the manufacture of all of our products. We enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications and other standard industry provisions, but do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. The inability of a certain manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our 13 Table of Contents customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because of the seasonality of our business, and the apparel and fashion business in particular, the dates on which customers need and require shipments of products from us are critical, as styles and consumer tastes change so rapidly in the apparel and fashion business, particularly from one season to the next. Further, because quality is a leading factor when customers and retailers accept or reject goods, any decline in quality by our third-party manufacturers could be detrimental not only to a particular order, but also to our future relationship with that particular customer. We compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers. Some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus may have an advantage in the competition for production and import quota capacity. If we experience a significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand our third-party manufacturing capacity. We cannot assure you that this additional capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us or similar to existing terms which we have with our manufacturers, either from a production standpoint or a financial standpoint. Increases in the price of raw materials or their reduced availability could increase our cost of goods and decrease our profitability. The principal fabrics used in our business are cotton, blends, synthetics and wools. The prices we pay our suppliers for our products are dependent in part on the market price for raw materials—primarily cotton—used to produce them. The price and availability of cotton may fluctuate substantially, depending on a variety of factors, including demand, crop yields, weather, supply conditions, transportation costs, work stoppages, government regulation, economic climates and other unpredictable factors. Increases in raw material costs, together with other factors, will make it difficult for us to sustain the level of cost of goods savings we have achieved in recent years and result in a decrease of our profitability unless we are able to pass higher prices on to our customers. Moreover, any decrease in the availability of cotton could impair our ability to meet our production requirements in a timely manner. We are dependent on our relationships with our vendors. We purchase our raw materials, including fabric, yarns, threads and trims, such as zippers, buttons and tags from a variety of vendors. While we are not reliant exclusively on one or more particular vendor for the supply of the raw materials or component parts required to meet our manufacturing needs, we depend on our relationships and these vendors to ensure our supply of these raw materials or component parts. Any problems or disputes with these vendors could result in us having to source these raw materials or component parts from another vendor, which could delay production, and in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our licensees may not comply with our product quality, manufacturing standards, marketing and other requirements. We license our trademarks to third parties for manufacturing, marketing and distribution of bags, belts, children's products and shoes. We believe that licensing the Joe's® brand for certain product categories will broaden and enhance the products available under the brand name. While our agreements with our licensees cover product design, product quality, sourcing, manufacturing, marketing and other requirements, our licensees may not comply fully with those agreements. Non-compliance could include marketing products under our brand names that do not meet our quality and other requirements or engaging in manufacturing practices that do not meet our standards. These activities could harm our brand equity, our reputation and our business. 14 Table of Contents In order to effectively manage growth, we are dependent on our financing arrangements and our cash flow from operations. Our primary sources of liquidity are: (i) cash from sales of our Joe's® products; and (ii) cash from sales of our accounts receivables and advances against inventory. We are dependent on credit arrangements with suppliers and factoring and inventory based agreements for working capital needs. From time to time, we have conducted equity financing through private placement transactions and obtained increases in our cash availability from CIT Commercial Services, Inc., a unit of CIT Group, or CIT. During fiscal 2010, our primary methods to obtain the cash necessary for operating needs were through the sales of Joe's® products, sales of our accounts receivable pursuant to our factoring agreements and obtaining advances under our inventory security agreements with CIT. CIT has from time to time experienced economic uncertainty regarding its continued ability to operate, including filing a petition for bankruptcy in 2009. However, during this time period, CIT continued to fund us with no change to our arrangements with them. We cannot give you any assurance that should CIT experience uncertainty or insufficient cash flows again that they will continue to be able to fund us in the future. As of November 30, 2010, our cash availability with CIT was approximately $827,000 under our agreements. This amount fluctuates on a daily basis based upon invoicing and collection related activity by CIT on our behalf. CIT has the ability to terminate the agreements we have with them upon notice or require additional collateral to secure its advances. We do not have any provisions in the agreements that protect us in the event of a default by CIT. If CIT elects to terminate the agreements, we could be forced to pay our liability with CIT and CIT may also elect to take possession of the pledged collateral, which includes raw materials through finished goods and receivables. Although we have undertaken numerous measures to increase sales and cash flow, control inventory costs and operate more efficiently so that we may be able to fund our operations for fiscal 2011, we may experience losses and negative cash flows. We cannot give you any assurance that we will in fact continue to operate profitably in the future. We believe in the event our agreements with CIT are terminated, we will be able to find alternative sources for obtaining the case for our operating needs, including, entering into factoring or inventory security agreements with another lender. Most of our tangible assets are pledged under our agreements with CIT. In addition to being dependent on our financing agreements with CIT, we have pledged to CIT as collateral most of our tangible assets, which include raw materials such as fabric and trim, finished goods, and our receivables. In the event we default or CIT elects to terminate the agreements, we would be required to pay our liability to CIT. If we were unable or unwilling to pay all or part of our liability, CIT could exercise its rights under the agreements to the pledged collateral and sell any or all of these tangible assets. In the event CIT elects this remedy, our operations and our sales could be materially adversely impacted by the sale of or our inability to utilize these assets in our normal business operations. As a result of our completion of the merger with JD Holdings and the issuance of 14,000,000 shares of our common stock, Mr. Dahan may be able to exert significant influence and control over us as a result of his percentage of stock ownership, position as an executive officer and membership on our Board of Directors. As a result of the completion of the merger and the issuance of the 14,000,000 shares of our common stock, Mr. Dahan beneficially owns approximately 17 percent of our total shares outstanding and is our largest stockholder. In addition, Mr. Dahan is an executive officer and a member of our Board of Directors. As a result, he is in a position to exert significant influence and control over us as a result of his voting power, position as an executive officer and membership on our Board of Directors. We are not aware of any intent by Mr. Dahan to influence or control our affairs as result of 15 Table of Contents his percentage ownership of our common stock and his position as both an executive officer and member of our Board of Directors. Our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain talented personnel and retain our key employees, including our chief executive officer and creative director. Our future success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain talented personnel. To date, we have not had any difficulty in attracting or retaining personnel to fill open or new positions, however, in the future, we may need to expand our infrastructure to support any anticipated growth. We may need to provide incentives, both short term and long term, to attract and retain personnel. Incentives can range from bonuses, grants of options or restricted stock to perquisites unique to the industry. All such incentives will result in an increase in certain expenses. More particularly, growth and payment of incentives to personnel and expenditures to expand our infrastructure to support our growth will cause our selling, general and administrative expenses to increase if we cannot maintain or decrease other expenses. An increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses may cause us to be less profitable. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or decrease other expenses, therefore, a decrease in profit may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our chief executive officer, Marc Crossman, has substantial experience and expertise in our business and has made significant contributions to our growth and success. The unexpected loss of his services could adversely affect us. We are protected to a limited extent by a key man term life insurance policy that we maintain on our behalf for Mr. Crossman; however, there can be no assurance that his departure would trigger protection under this policy. In May 2008, we entered into a written employment agreement with Mr. Crossman whereby he is employed by us as our President and Chief Executive Officer. His initial employment term is for two years with automatic renewal for additional two year periods if neither party elects not to renew the agreement upon 180 days advanced notice. If Mr. Crossman should leave us, his absence would likely have a substantial impact on our ability to operate on a daily basis because we would be forced to find and hire similarly experienced personnel to fill one or more of his positions and daily operations may suffer temporarily as a result of this immediate void. Mr. Dahan's departure could materially adversely affect our operations because his experience, design capabilities and name recognition in the apparel industry is important to our business and we rely heavily on Mr. Dahan's capabilities to design, direct and produce product for the Joe's® brand. However, the loss of Mr. Dahan would not have any effect on our ownership of the brand. While we believe that we would be able to find a suitable replacement to design, direct and produce product for the Joe's® brand, we do not know the effect a new or different designer would have on the products and consumer's response to those new products. Therefore, loss of Mr. Dahan's services could have an impact on our ability to operate on a daily basis. In the event we seek additional capital through equity or debt offerings, our existing stockholders may be diluted or we may be unable to find additional capital on terms favorable to us and our stockholders. In the event that we need additional working capital for our projected operations, we may seek capital through debt or equity offerings which could result in the issuance of additional shares of our capital stock and/or rights to acquire additional shares of our capital stock. Those additional issuances of capital stock would result in a reduction of the percentage of ownership interest held by our existing stockholders. Also, the addition of a substantial number of shares of our common stock into the market or the registration of any other securities may significantly and negatively affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. Finally, we may not be able to find additional capital on terms favorable to us through existing markets or investors due to market conditions, our historical performance or our stock price. 16 Table of Contents Our common stock price is volatile and may decrease. The trading price and volume of our common stock has historically been subject to fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: •annual and quarterly variations in actual or anticipated operating results, •operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors, •changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors, •changes in market valuations of other denim apparel companies, •announcements of new product lines by us or our competitors, announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions or dispositions of assets, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, •additions or departures of key personnel or members of our board of directors, and •general conditions in the apparel industry. In the 52 week period prior to the filing of this Annual Report, the closing price of our common stock has ranged from $1.53 to $3.45. In addition, stock markets generally have experienced price and volume trading volatility in recent years. This volatility has had an effect on the market prices of securities of many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our directors and management beneficially own a large percentage of our common stock. Our executive officers and directors beneficially own approximately 23 percent of our common stock, including options exercisable and restricted common stock units vesting within 60 days of February 10, 2011 in the aggregate. More specifically, Joe Dahan beneficially owns approximately 17 percent of our common stock. Because of this level of stock ownership, in the aggregate, certain persons may be in a position to directly or indirectly control our affairs. The seasonal nature of our business makes management more difficult, severely reduces cash flow and liquidity during parts of the year and could force us to curtail our operations. Our business is seasonal. The majority of our marketing and sales activities take place from late fall to early spring. Historically, our greatest volume of shipments and sales occur from late spring through the summer, which coincides with our second and third fiscal quarters. This requires us to build-up inventories during our first and second fiscal quarters when our cash flow is weakest. Historically speaking, our cash flow is strongest in the third and fourth fiscal quarters. Unfavorable economic conditions affecting retailers during the fall and holiday seasons in any year could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the year. We are likely to experience periods of negative cash flow throughout each year, including, a drop-off in business commencing each December, which could force us to curtail operations if adequate liquidity is not available. We cannot assure you that the effects of such seasonality will diminish in the future. For fiscal 2010, we funded inventory purchases through cash from operations and cash availability under our financing agreements with CIT. If an independent manufacturer of ours fails to use acceptable labor practices, our business could suffer. While we require our independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we have no control over the ultimate actions of our independent manufacturers. Despite our lack of control, we have internal and vendor operating guidelines to promote ethical 17 Table of Contents business practices and our staff periodically visits and monitors the operations of our independent manufacturers. We also use the services of a third party independent labor consulting service to conduct on site audits as required by state labor laws to help minimize our risk and exposure to unacceptable labor practice violations. The violation of labor or other laws by one of our independent manufacturers or the divergence of an independent manufacturer's labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In particular, the laws governing garment manufacturers in the State of California impose joint liability upon us and our independent manufacturers for the labor practices of those independent manufacturers. As a result, should one of our independent manufacturers be found in violation of state labor laws, we could suffer financial or other unforeseen consequences. Our trademark and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the United States and some of our products are targets of counterfeiting. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We may, however, experience conflict with various third parties who acquire or claim ownership rights in certain trademarks as we expand our product offerings and expand the number of countries where we sell our products. We cannot ensure that the actions we have taken to establish and protect these trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of their trademarks and proprietary rights. Also, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Our Joe's® products are sometimes the target of counterfeiters. As a result, there are often products that are imitations or "knock-offs" of our Joe's® products that can be found in the marketplace or consumers can find products that are confusingly similar to ours. We intend to continue to vigorously defend our trademarks and products bearing our trademarks, however, we cannot assure you that our efforts will be adequate to prosecute and block all sales of infringing products from the marketplace. Our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks. Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. Some of these risks include: •the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, and •new tariffs or other barriers to some international markets. We are also subject to general political and economic risks associated with conducting international business, including: •political instability, •changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, and •general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. 18 Table of Contents We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the United States, Mexico, the European Union, Canada, China, Japan, India, South Korea or other countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in regulatory or geopolitical policies and other factors may adversely affect our business in the future or may require us to modify our current business practices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 