Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained herein or incorporated herein by reference, the risks and uncertainties and other factors described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and share price and could also cause our future business, financial condition and results of operations to differ materially from the results contemplated by any forward-looking statement we may make herein, in any other document we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or in any press release or other written or oral statement we may make. Please also see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition And Results of Operations—Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” for additional risks and uncertainties applicable to us. Our business is subject to intense competition. Royalties paid to us under our licensing agreements are generally based on a percentage of our licensee’s net sales of licensed products. Cherokee and Sideout brand footwear, apparel, and accessories, which are manufactured and sold by both domestic and international wholesalers and retail licensees, are subject to extensive competition by numerous domestic and foreign companies. Such competitors with respect to the Cherokee brand include Levi Strauss & Co., The Gap, Old Navy, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc., Liz Claiborne, Iconix Brand Group Inc., and VF Corp. and private label brands such as Faded Glory, Arizona, and Route 66, developed by retailers. Competitors with respect to the Sideout brand include Quiksilver, Nike and other active wear companies. Factors which shape the competitive environment include quality of garment construction and design, brand name, style and color selection, price and the manufacturer’s ability to respond quickly to the retailer on a national basis. In recognition of the increasing trend towards consolidation of retailers and greater emphasis by retailers on the manufacture of private label merchandise, in the United States our business plan focuses on creating strategic alliances with major retailers for their sale of products bearing our brands through the licensing of our trademarks directly to retailers. Therefore, our degree of success is dependent on the strength of our brands, consumer acceptance of and desire for our brands, our licensees’ ability to design, manufacture and sell products bearing our brands and to respond to ever-changing consumer demands, and any significant failure by our licensees to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We cannot control the level of resources that our licensees commit to supporting our brands, and our licensees may choose to support other brands to the detriment of ours. Further, there are numerous risk factors that apply to the businesses of retailers that can affect their level of sales of products that carry our brands. Any decline in sales by our licensees can adversely affect our revenues. Factors that may adversely affect retailers include the following: · weather; · changes in the availability or cost of capital; · shifts in the seasonality of shopping patterns; · labor strikes or other work interruptions including work interruptions that impact supply chains and transport vendors; · the impact of excess retail capacity; · changes in the cost of accepting various payment methods and changes in the rate of utilization of these payment methods; · material acquisitions or dispositions; · investments in new business strategies; 10 · the success or failure of significant new business ventures or technologies; · actions taken or omitted to be taken by legislative, regulatory, judicial and other governmental authorities and officials; and · natural disasters, the outbreak of war, acts of terrorism or other significant national or international events. In addition, other companies owning established trademarks could also enter into similar arrangements with retailers. Our business is largely dependent on Royalties from two licensees, Target Stores and Tesco, which accounted for 42% and 32%, respectively of our consolidated licensing revenues in fiscal 2007 (excluding the one-time $33.0 million in revenues from our sale of the Mossimo Finder’s Agreement). During fiscal 2007, 42% of our licensing revenues were generated from Target Stores, a division of Target Corp., and 32% of our licensing revenues were generated from Tesco. See “Business—United States Licensing.” The future termination of either of these license agreements would have a material adverse effect upon our revenues and cash flow if we were unable to replace these royalty streams in a timely manner. The term of the Amended Target Agreement currently extends until January 31, 2009 and, unless Target Stores gives us one year’s advance notice of its intention to terminate the agreement, the agreement will continue to automatically renew for successive one year terms provided that Target Stores has paid a minimum guaranteed royalty equal to or greater then $9.0 million for the preceding fiscal year. If Target Stores elects to terminate the agreement, effective after January 31, 2009 or at any other time, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no guarantee that we would be able to replace the Target Stores royalty payments from other sources. The Amended Target Agreement, however, requires one year’s advance notice of termination by Target Stores to prevent automatic renewal, during which period we believe we could enter into one or more licensing agreements for the Cherokee brand with either retailers and/or wholesalers, which we expect would enable us to replace some of the lost revenues from Target Stores. Nonetheless, we could suffer substantially decreased royalty revenues and cash flow under the Amended Target Agreement if Target were to reduce its sales of Cherokee branded products while continuing to pay the minimum royalties required under such agreement. Similarly, our licensing agreement with Tesco, which covers numerous countries, currently extends until January 31, 2011, and the termination of this licensing agreement at any time, would negatively impact our royalty revenues and cash flow. Together, these two licensees accounted for 74% of our consolidated licensing revenues in fiscal 2007 (excluding the one-time $33.0 million in revenues from our sale of the Mossimo Finder’s Agreement). We are dependent on our intellectual property and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully protect our rights. We hold various trademarks including Cherokee, Sideout and others in connection with apparel, footwear and accessories. These trademarks are vital to the success and future growth of our business. These trademarks are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and in numerous other countries. We also hold several trademark applications for Cherokee and Sideout in several countries. We monitor on an ongoing basis unauthorized uses of our trademarks, and we rely primarily upon a combination of trademark, know-how, trade secrets, and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property rights. We believe that such measures afford only limited protection and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that the actions taken by us to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will prevent imitation of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights by others, or prevent the loss of licensing revenue or other damages caused thereby. In addition, the laws of several countries in which we have licensed our intellectual property may not protect our intellectual 11 property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our intellectual property, which could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In the future we may be required to assert infringement claims against third parties, and there can be no assurance that one or more parties will not assert infringement claims against us. Any resulting litigation could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our management personnel whether or not such litigation is determined in our favor. We are dependent on our key management personnel. Our success is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key executives, including Robert Margolis, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Howard Siegel, our President; Sandi Stuart, our Executive Vice President, and Russell J. Riopelle, our Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Margolis was initially the primary person responsible for conceiving and implementing our overall business and marketing strategy, and the other executives are currently responsible for executing our strategy. Mr. Margolis has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since May 1995. As of March 30, 2007, Mr. Margolis was the beneficial owner of approximately 12.2% of our outstanding common stock. We have a limited number of employees and Mr. Margolis’ and our other executives’ leadership and experience in the apparel licensing industry is important to the successful implementation of our business and marketing strategy. We do not carry key person life insurance covering any of our executives. While Mr. Margolis’ services are provided pursuant to a management agreement with us, the other executives do not have management agreements. Furthermore, Mr. Margolis’s agreement does not ensure Mr. Margolis’ continued services. The loss of the services of Mr. Margolis or our other key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The management agreement with our Chief Executive Officer contains provisions that provide for a substantial cash payment to our Chief Executive Officer upon our breach or termination of the management agreement. Mr. Margolis’ services as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are provided to us pursuant to a management agreement. The current term of the management agreement ends February 1, 2010; however, the term may be extended indefinitely for additional one-year terms so long as we meet certain pre-tax earnings thresholds. If we terminate the management agreement without cause or Mr. Margolis terminates the management agreement after we materially breach any of the terms and conditions thereof or fail to perform any material obligations thereunder, we would be obligated to pay Mr. Margolis, within sixty days after the date of termination, a lump sum in cash equal to three times the sum of the annual base compensation under the management agreement at the rate in effect at the time of the termination plus the amount of the previous year’s performance bonus under the management agreement. Mr. Margolis’ annual base compensation in fiscal 2007 was $737,000 and his performance bonus for fiscal 2007 was approximately $8.0 million. Based on the amounts paid for fiscal 2007, the lump sum payment owed upon such a termination would be approximately $26.2 million. The occurrence of the following events, among other things, will be deemed to be a material breach of the management agreement by us: · Mr. Margolis and/or other directors that he and related parties have the right to nominate to our Board of Directors, are not elected to our Board of Directors or are not put on the slate of directors recommended to our stockholders or Mr. Margolis or any such other director is removed from our Board of Directors without Mr. Margolis’ approval; · the assignment to Mr. Margolis of any duties materially inconsistent with, or the diminution of his positions, titles, offices, duties and responsibilities with us or any removal of Mr. Margolis from, 12 or any failure to re-elect Mr. Margolis to, any titles, offices or positions held by him under the management agreement, including the failure of our Board of Directors to elect Mr. Margolis or his designee as Chairman of the Board; · a reduction by us in the base compensation or any other compensation provided to Mr. Margolis in the management agreement; or · a change or relocation of Mr. Margolis’ office that materially and adversely affects Mr. Margolis’ working environment or any other substantial, material and adverse changes in Mr. Margolis’ working conditions imposed by us. At the time such payment is due, we may not have sufficient cash to make the lump sum payment to Mr. Margolis, and becoming obligated to make such payment would have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Under certain circumstances, the obligation to make such lump sum payment to Mr. Margolis could be triggered if a third party were to acquire us, which would increase such third party’s acquisition costs, but would also each year thereafter reduce our annual operating expenses due to the elimination of annual bonus payments to Mr. Margolis pursuant to the management agreement. We may not pay dividends regularly in the future. Although we have paid dividends during each quarter of fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, and during the first quarter of fiscal 2008, there can be no assurances that we will continue to generate excess cash to pay dividends, or that we will continue to pay dividends with such excess cash if other, more compelling business opportunities are available, as determined by our Board of Directors. Our ability to generate excess cash from our operations in the future is dependent upon a variety of factors, including Cherokee’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, capital requirements and other factors. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 