Item 1A. Risk Factors. This 10-K contains statements concerning our future performance, intentions, objectives, plans and expectations that are or may be deemed to be "forward-looking statements". Our ability to do this has been fostered by the Private Securities Litigation Act of 1995, which provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the statement. In addition, the Company's status as an exploration and development company without any present revenue producing operations increases the risks involved in an investment in the Company. These factors affecting us include, but are not limited to, the following: 5 RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS: Exploration Stage Mining Company with No History of Operation The Company is in its exploration stage, has very limited operating history, and is subject to all the risks inherent in a new business enterprise. For example, to date we have had no revenues and have relied upon equity financing to fund our operations. The likelihood of success of the Company must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complication, and delays frequently encountered in connection with an exploration stage business, and the competitive and regulatory environment in which the Company will operate, such as under-capitalization, personnel limitations, and limited revenue sources. Due to Our History of Operating Losses, We are Uncertain That We Will Be Able to Maintain Sufficient Cash to Accomplish Our Business Objectives During the year ended January 31, 2013 and 2012 we suffered net losses of $1,285,247 and $499,527 respectively. At January 31, 2013 there was a working capital deficit of $982,719. There is no assurance that we can generate net income, generate revenues or successfully explore and exploit our properties. Significant amounts of capital will be required to continue to explore and then develop the Wyoming claims. The Company is not engaged in any revenue producing activities and does not expect to do so in the near future. Currently the Company’s sources of funding consist of the sale of additional equity securities, borrowing funds, or selling a portion of our interests in our assets. There is no assurance that any additional capital that the Company will require will be obtainable on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delays or indefinite postponement of further exploration and development of our projects. Additionally financing, if available, will likely result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. Capital Requirements and Liquidity; Need for Subsequent Funding Company management and our board of directors monitor our overall costs and expenses and, if necessary, adjust Company programs and planned expenditures in an attempt to ensure we have sufficient operating capital. We continue to evaluate our costs and planned expenditures for our on-going exploration project at our Wyoming mining claim. The Company may need to explore raising additional capital during fiscal 2013 so that it can continue to fully fund its planned operations. The weak US and global economies combined with instability in global financial and capital markets have impacted the availability of funding. If the disruptions in the global financial and capital markets continue, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Equity financing, if available, may result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. If we are unable to fund future operations by way of financing, including public or private offerings of equity or debt securities, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely impacted. The independent auditors’ report on our financial statements reflect a “going concern” explanatory paragraph. As a result of our losses from operations and limited capital resources, our independent registered public accounting firm’s report on our financial statements as of, and for the year ended, January 31, 2013, includes an explanatory paragraph discussing that these conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue to pursue our plan of operations as described herein is dependent upon our ability to increase our revenues and/or raise the capital necessary to meet our financial requirements on a continuing basis. Disruptions in the Global Financial and Capital Markets May Impact Our Ability to Obtain Financing. The global financial and capital markets have experienced on-going volatility and disruption. Although we expect to meet our near term liquidity needs with our working capital on hand, we will continue to need further funding to achieve our business objectives. In the past, the issuance of equity securities has been the major source of capital and liquidity for us. The extraordinary conditions in the global financial and capital markets have currently limited the availability of this funding. If the disruptions in the global financial and capital markets continue, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to fund future operations by way of financing, including public or private offerings of equity or debt securities, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely impacted. 6 Our Exploration Activities Require Significant Amounts of Capital that May Not Be Recovered. Mineral exploration activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that no commercially productive or extractable resources will be encountered. There can be no assurance that our activities will ultimately lead to an economically feasible project or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment. Mineral exploration often involves unprofitable efforts, including drilling operations that ultimately do not further our exploration efforts, as well as operating and other costs. The cost of minerals exploration is often uncertain and cost overruns are common. Our drilling and exploration operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including title problems, weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment and services. We may not be able to renew our annual leases with the Wyoming Bureau of Land Management. Certain of our mining claims acquired from New Fork are subject to annual renewal payments of approximately $200,000 in the aggregate. In order to make these payments each year, we must raise funds either through the sale of capital or the issuance of debt. There are no assurances that we will be able to raise the funds required to make the annual lease payments. Further, as a result of the recent volatility of the global markets, a general tightening of lending standards, and a general decrease in equity financing and similar type transactions it could be difficult for us to obtain funding to allow us to renew these claims, which could materially impact our business operations and business plan. No Commercially Mineable Ore Body; Resources and Reserves No commercially mineable ore body has been delineated on the Company’s properties, nor have any reserves been identified. The Company is an exploration stage company and does not currently have any known reserves and cannot be expected to have reserves. There can be no assurance that the Company’s claims will ever contain reserves and investors may lose their entire investment in the Company. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of mineral resources such as uranium, including many factors beyond our control, and no assurance can be given that the recovery of mineral resources will be realized. In general, estimates of recoverable mineral resources are based upon a number of factors and assumptions made as of the date on which the resource estimates were determined, such as geological and engineering estimates which have inherent uncertainties and the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies and estimates of future commodity prices and operating costs, all of which may vary considerably from actual results. All such estimates are, to some degree, uncertain and classifications of resources are only attempts to define the degree of uncertainty involved. For these reasons, estimates of the recoverable mineral resources, the classification of such resources based on risk of recovery, prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially. No estimates of commerciality or recoverable mineral resources can be made at this time, if ever. Our Business Plan is Highly Speculative and its Success Largely Depends on Mineral Exploration in the Wyoming Mining Claims Although the Company holds mining claims South Dakota and Arizona, our business plan is focused primarily on exploration on the Company’s Wyoming claims and to identify reserves, as described herein. Exploitation of mineralization and determining whether the mineralization might be extracted profitably is highly speculative and it may take a number of years until production is possible, during which time the economic viability of the project may change. Substantial expenditures are required to establish reserves, extract metals from ores and, in the case of new properties, to construct mining and processing facilities. Exploration projects are also subject to the completion of compiling initial drill data, establishing favorable feasibility studies, issuance of necessary permits and the ability to raise further capital to fund activities. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in overcoming these risks. 7 Risks Inherent in the Mining Industry The Company is subject to all of the risks inherent in the minerals exploration and mining industry and including, without limitation, the following: • competition from a large number of companies, many of which are significantly larger than the Company, in the acquisition, exploration, and development of mining properties; • the Company might not be able raise enough money to pay the fees, taxes and perform labor necessary to maintain its concessions in good force; • exploration for minerals is highly speculative and involves substantial risks, even when conducted on properties known to contain significant quantities of mineralization, our exploration projects may not result in the discovery of commercially mineable deposits of ore; • the probability of an individual prospect ever having reserves that meet the requirements of Securities Act Industry Guide 7 is extremely remote, or the properties may not contain any reserves, and any funds spent on exploration may be lost; • our operations are subject to a variety of existing laws and regulations relating to exploration and development, permitting procedures, safety precautions, property reclamation, employee health and safety, air quality standards, pollution and other environmental protection controls and the Company may not be able to comply with these regulations and controls; and • a large number of factors beyond the control of the Company, including fluctuations in metal prices, inflation, and other economic conditions, will affect the economic feasibility of mining. THE BUSINESS OF MINERAL EXPLORATION IS SUBJECT TO MANY RISKS: Fluctuating Price for Metals The Company’s operations will be greatly influenced by the prices of commodities, particularly the price of uranium but also including gold, zinc, lead, copper, and other metals. These prices fluctuate widely and are affected by numerous factors beyond the Company’s control, including interest rates, expectations for inflation, speculation, currency values, in particular the strength of the United States dollar, global and regional demand, political and economic conditions and production costs in major metal producing regions of the world. Title to Our Mineral Properties May be Challenged We attempt to confirm the validity of its rights to title to, or contract rights with respect to, each mineral property in which we have a material interest. However, we cannot guarantee that title to our properties will not be challenged. Title insurance generally is not available, and our ability to ensure that we have obtained secure claim to individual mineral properties or mining concessions may be severely constrained. Our mineral properties may be subject to prior unregistered agreements, transfers or claims, and title may be affected by, among other things, undetected defects. In addition, we may be unable to operate our properties as permitted or to enforce our rights with respect to our properties. 8 Environmental Controls Compliance with statutory environmental quality requirements may necessitate significant capital outlays, may materially affect the earning power of the Company, or may cause material changes in the Company’s intended activities. Our exploration operations require compliance with local and federal regulations. No assurance can be given that environmental standards imposed by either federal or state governments will not be changed or become more stringent, thereby possibly materially adversely affecting the proposed activities of the Company. In addition, if we are unable to fund fully the cost of remediation of any environmental condition, we may be required to suspend operations or enter into interim compliance measures pending completion of the required remediation. Availability of Water Water is essential in all phases of the exploration and development of mineral properties. It is used in such processes as exploration, drilling, leaching, placer mining, dredging, testing, and hydraulic mining. Mining and ore processing requires large volumes of water. Both the lack of available water and the cost of acquisition may make an otherwise viable project economically impossible to complete. Although work completed thus far indicates that an adequate supply of water can probably be developed in the area for an underground mining operation, the Company will need to complete an additional water exploration program to determine if there is sufficient water available for an open pit mining operation. Shortages of Supplies and Materials The mineral industry has experienced from time to time shortages of certain supplies and materials necessary in the exploration for and evaluation of mineral deposits. The prices at which such supplies and materials are available have also greatly increased. Our planned operations would likely be subject to delays due to such shortages and that further price escalations will increase the Company’s costs of such supplies and materials. Experience of the Company and of others in the industry is that suppliers are currently often unable to meet contractual obligations for supplies, equipment, materials, and services, and that alternate sources of supply do not exist. Availability of Outside Engineers and Consultants The Company is heavily dependent upon outside engineers and other professionals to complete work on its exploration projects. The mining industry has experienced significant growth over the last several years and as a result, many engineering and consulting firms have experienced a shortage of qualified engineering personnel. The Company closely monitors its outside consultants through regular meetings and review of resource allocations and project milestones. However, the lack of qualified personnel combined with increased mining projects could result in delays in completing work on our exploration projects or result in higher costs to keep personnel focused on our project. 9 Need for Additional Key Personnel; Reliance on Officers and Directors At the present, the Company employs one full-time employee and two outside consultants in the United States, and relies in large part on the personal efforts of its officers and directors. The success of the Company’s proposed business will depend, in part, upon the ability to attract and retain qualified employees. The Company believes that it will be able to attract competent employees, but no assurance can be given that the Company will be successful in this regard. If the Company is unable to engage and retain the necessary personnel, its business would be materially and adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SECURITIES There may be future sales or other dilution of our equity which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue additional shares of common stock and additional classes or series of preferred stock without any action on the part of the stockholders. Our Board of Directors also has the discretion, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any such classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, rights and preferences with respect to dividends or upon the liquidation, or winding up of our business and other terms. If we issue preferred shares in the future that have a preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred shares with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of our common stockholders or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. The Company does not intend to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future. The Company intends to retain any of its profits to fund the Company’s business operations. Investors who require income from dividends should not purchase our common stock. The lack of a broker or dealer to create or maintain a market in our stock could adversely impact the price and liquidity of our securities. The Company has no agreement with any broker or dealer to act as a market maker for its securities and there is no assurance that it will be successful in obtaining any market makers. Thus, no broker or dealer will have an incentive to make a market for our stock. This in part, has resulted in very low trading volume of our common stock. The lack of a market maker for our securities could adversely influence the market for and price of our securities, as well as your ability to dispose of, or to obtain accurate information about, and/or quotations as to the price of, our securities. As our stock is not listed on a national securities exchange, trading in our shares will be subject to rules governing "penny stocks," which will impair trading activity in our shares. Our stock is not on a national securities exchange. Therefore, our stock is subject to rules adopted by the Commission regulating broker dealer practices in connection with transactions in "penny stocks." Those disclosure rules applicable to "penny stocks" require a broker dealer, prior to a transaction in a "penny stock" not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized list disclosure document prepared by the Commission. That disclosure document advises an investor that investment in "penny stocks" can be very risky and that the investor's salesperson or broker is not an impartial advisor but rather paid to sell the shares. The disclosure contains further warnings for the investor to exercise caution in connection with an investment in "penny stocks," to independently investigate the security, as well as the salesperson with whom the investor is working and to understand the risky nature of an investment in this security. The broker dealer must also provide the customer with certain other information and must make a special written determination that the "penny stock" is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. Further, the rules require that, following the proposed transaction, the broker provide the customer with monthly account statements containing market information about the prices of the securities. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for our common stock. Many brokers may be unwilling to engage in transactions in our common stock because of the added disclosure requirements, thereby making it more difficult for shareholders to dispose of their shares. Shareholders will also find it difficult to obtain accurate information about, and/or quotations as to the price of, our common stock. Consequently, the penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to make a market in or trade our common stock and may also affect your ability to resell any shares you may purchase in the public markets. 10 As a company with a class of securities registered pursuant to the 1934 Act the Company has significant obligations under the 1934 Act. Having a class of securities registered under the 1934 Act is a time consuming and expensive process and subjects the company to increased regulatory scrutiny and extensive and complex regulation. Complying with these regulations would be expensive and could require a significant amount of management’s time. For example, public companies are obligated to institute and maintain financial accounting controls and for the accuracy and completeness of their books and records. These requirements could necessitate additional corporate spending on procedures and personnel requiring us to reallocate funds from other business objectives. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 