Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We are a Development Stage Company. Our Limited Operating History Makes it Difficult to Evaluate Our Future Performance. We are a development stage company and as such, we have a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our current business and our prospects. The likelihood of our future success must be viewed in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, delays and complications often encountered in the operation of a new business, where failures of new companies are common. We are subject to the risks inherent in the ownership and operation of a development stage company, including regulatory setbacks and delays, fluctuations in expenses, competition and government regulation. If we fail to address these risks and uncertainties our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects would be adversely affected. 5 Table of Contents We Cannot Predict Our Future Capital Needs And We May Not Be Able To Secure Additional Financing. We believe that the cash we have on hand, together with anticipated revenues from operations will be sufficient to meet our presently anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements for existing operations for at least the next twelve months, however our belief is based on our operating plan which in turn is based on assumptions, which may prove to be incorrect. As a result, our financial resources may not be sufficient to satisfy our capital requirements for this period. Moreover and at such time, should we initiate efforts to pursue an investigational new drug application (IND) with the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) that will allow us to market certain of our products within the approved regulatory scheme, as set forth by the FDA for nicotine based personal vaporizers to be sold as a smoking cessation aid/ device or as otherwise required to gain FDA approval for certain products that may require regulatory approvals to be sold, we will likely require additional funding to begin the necessary clinical, non-clinical trials and the approval process that we believe we will be required to complete before we are in a position to file an NDA for the product. Further, we may require additional working capital to support our operations during any regulatory period wherein we may be precluded from marketing certain of our products. We do not presently have the funds needed to complete all the necessary trials to gain such U.S. and foreign approvals. We have not yet developed or initiated our trials and thus we cannot estimate the ultimate costs of these trials, and we will need additional funding to pay such costs. We expect to raise any required additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, corporate collaborations, governmental research grants may in some cases be available to us. We may also seek to raise additional capital to fund additional product development efforts, even if we have sufficient funds for our planned operations. There can be no assurance that any such required additional funding will be available to us at all or available on terms acceptable to us. Further, we currently have no credit facility or similar financing currently available. And any debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants, which may limit our operating flexibility with respect to certain business matters. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders will be reduced and our stockholders will experience additional dilution in net tangible book value per share. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully market our products, take advantage of future opportunities, repay debt obligations as they become due or respond to competitive pressures, any and all of which would have an adverse effect on our business. One of Our Credit Card Transaction Processors are Holding Our Funds One of our credit card transaction processors, TransFirst, with whom we have initiated an arbitration is holding approximately $397,282 of our funds, as of December 31, 2009, which we have generated through certain direct to consumer internet sales efforts. If we are unsuccessful in our claim, our funds may continue to be held by TransFirst for an indefinite period, and we may be subjected to certain fines and levies and fees by TransFirst. Moreover, our inability to recover our funds in a timely manner may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations. We have been added to the Credit Card Processors Terminated Merchant File As a result of our dispute with TransFirst, we have been placed on the Terminated Merchant File list, which is a list of companies that are currently in dispute with members of the credit card processing industry. Being placed on the list makes it more difficult to secure new credit card processing and may result in higher fees charged by credit card processors, in addition to longer hold periods and higher reserves. Being removed from the list is one of the subjects of the Company’s arbitration against TransFirst. If we are unable to successfully resolve this issue and remove our Company’s name from this industry list, we may have a difficult time, acquiring and or maintaining credit card processing at competitive rates or at all. Moreover, higher rates, higher reserves and extended hold periods may have a material effect on our margins, our competitiveness in the risk-free-direct-to-consumer sales model and our cash flows. If we fail to address this issue our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects may be adversely affected. New Product Faces Intense Media Attention and Public Pressure Our product is new to the marketplace and since its introduction certain members of the media, politicians, government regulators and advocate groups, including independent doctors have called for an outright ban of all “electronic cigarettes,” pending regulatory review and a demonstration of safety. A ban of this type would likely have the effect of terminating our United States’ sales and marketing efforts, of certain products which we may currently market or have plans to market in the future. Such a ban would also likely cause public confusion as to which products are the subject of the ban and which are not and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and performance. 6 Table of Contents The Market For Our Products Is Uncertain And Is Still Evolving. Personal vaporizers, having recently been introduced to market, are at an early stage of development and are evolving rapidly and are characterized by an increasing number of market entrants. Our future revenues and any future profits are substantially dependent upon the widespread acceptance and use of personal vaporizers. Rapid growth in the use of, and interest in, personal vaporizers is a recent phenomenon, and may not continue on a lasting basis. The demand and market acceptance for these products is subject to a high level of uncertainty. We Market a Single Class of Products, Which may be Subject to Certain Government Regulations, Whose Approval We may or may not be Able to Achieve. Personal Vaporizers, which are our sole product offering, commonly referred to as “electronic cigarettes” are new to the marketplace and may be subject to regulation as a drug, a medical device, a drug and medical device and or as a tobacco product. Most personal vaporizers are sold as a means of delivering nicotine to the body. The Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) is the regulatory agency which oversees drugs, medical devices and tobacco; however at present it is unclear which, if any regulatory process is required to market, and sell personal vaporizers. To date the FDA has not established a definitive policy regulating “electronic cigarettes” but is reviewing cases on a case by case basis. We intend to use reasonable efforts to file for the appropriate approvals to allow us to sell our product in the United States, however we have no indication that at present we will be able to afford to pursue regulatory approval and that if we are able to pursue said approval we have no assurances that the outcome of said approval process will result in our products being approved by the FDA. Moreover, if the FDA establishes a regulatory process that we are unable or unwilling to comply with our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects would be adversely affected. (See section “Government Regulation.”) Our Products Contain Nicotine Which is Considered to be a Highly Addictive Substance. Certain of our products contain nicotine, a chemical found in cigarettes and other tobacco products which is considered to be highly addictive. The Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act, empowers the FDA to regulate the amount of nicotine found in tobacco products, but may not require the reduction of nicotine yields of a tobacco product to zero. Any FDA regulation may require us to reformulate, recall and or discontinue certain of the products we may sell from time to time, which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our products and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects. Our Products may not Serve their Intended Purpose. An independent study of certain brands of electronic cigarettes, not including our brands, found that the electronic cigarettes tested, delivered little to no measurable nicotine. We are not aware of the methods or protocols of this study used to test the electronic cigarettes and have not independently verified the study’s results. Nor have we conducted our own empirical studies to determine the delivered nicotine in the vapor drawn from our products. We also do not know if the electronic cigarettes tested were manufactured in the same factories in which are products are manufactured. If our products are found to not serve their intended purpose, including delivering nicotine to their users, we may face a decline in sales of our products, an upsurge of requests for refunds, private civil actions and or state or federal unfair business practices actions; any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects. We May Not Successfully Commercialize Our Personal Vaporizers. We began marketing our personal vaporizers in September, 2008 and have generated approximately $4,993,447 in revenues through our efforts. We derive revenues thorough: distributor sales, selling to wholesalers, direct to retail distribution and through direct sales to customers over the Internet and through television sales. Our success depends on our ability to continue to serve our existing customers and by attracting new customers. Moreover, our ability to expand and commercialize our products outside of the United States is critical to our business success. Our inability to continue to generate revenues through our sales channels both at home and abroad would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents Our Business may be Affected if we are Taxed Like Other Tobacco Products or if we are Required to Collect and Remit Sales Tax on Certain of our Internet Sales Presently our products are not taxed like cigarettes or other tobacco products, all of which have faced significant increases in the amount of taxes collected on the sale of their products. Should state and federal governments and or taxing authorities impose taxes similar to those levied against cigarettes and tobacco products on our products, it may have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products. Moreover we may be unable to establish the systems and processes needed to track and submit the taxes we collect through internet sales, which would limit our ability to market our products through our websites which would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operation and financial condition. States such as New York, Hawaii, Rhode Island and North Carolina have begun collecting taxes on Internet sales where companies have used independent contractors in those states to solicit sales from residents of that state. The requirement to collect track and remit taxes based on independent affiliate sales may require us to increase our prices, which may effect demand for our products or conversely reduce our net profit margin; either of which would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition and operating results. Downturns In The Economy May Affect the demand for our products and our Financial Performance Personal vaporizers are new to market and may be regarded by users as a novelty item and expendable as such demand for our products may be extra sensitive to economic conditions. When economic conditions are prosperous, discretionary spending increases; conversely, when economic conditions are unfavorable, discretionary spending declines. Any significant decline in general corporate conditions or the economy that affect consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and consequently, upon an investment in the Common Stock of our Company. The World Health Organization (WHO) does not consider electronic cigarettes to be a legitimate therapy for smokers trying to quit smoking The WHO has stated that there is currently insufficient scientific evidence to establish electronic cigarettes as a legitimate smoking cessation aid. If we or others in our industry or the scientific and medical community are unable to demonstrate the “safety” of our products, their effectiveness as a smoking cessation aid or as a “reduced harm” alternative to smoking. We may face the same Governmental actions aimed at cigarettes and other tobacco products. The tobacco industry expects significant regulatory developments to take place over the next few years, driven principally by the World Health Organization’s Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (“FCTC”). The FCTC is the first international public health treaty on tobacco, and its objective is to establish a global agenda for tobacco regulation with the purpose of reducing initiation of tobacco use and encouraging cessation. Regulatory initiatives that have been proposed, introduced or enacted include: • the levying of substantial and increasing tax and duty charges; • restrictions or bans on advertising, marketing and sponsorship; • the display of larger health warnings, graphic health warnings and other labeling requirements; • restrictions on packaging design, including the use of colors and generic packaging; • restrictions or bans on the display of tobacco product packaging at the point of sale, and restrictions or bans on cigarette vending machines; • requirements regarding testing, disclosure and performance standards for tar, nicotine, carbon monoxide and other smoke constituents levels; • requirements regarding testing, disclosure and use of tobacco product ingredients; • increased restrictions on smoking in public and work places and, in some instances, in private places and outdoors; • elimination of duty free allowances for travelers; and • encouraging litigation against tobacco companies. 8 Table of Contents Operating income could be significantly affected by any significant decrease in demand for our products, any significant increase in the cost of complying with new regulatory requirements. We may be Unable to Anticipate Changes in Consumer Preferences or to Respond to Consumer Behavior Influenced by Economic Downturns. Our business is subject to changes in consumer preferences, which may be influenced by local economic conditions. To be successful, we must: • promote brand equity successfully; • anticipate and respond to new consumer trends; • develop new products and markets and broaden brand portfolios; • improve productivity; and • be able to protect or enhance margins through price increases. In periods of economic uncertainty, consumers may tend to purchase lower price brands or alternatives, and the volume of our higher priced products and our profitability could suffer accordingly. We may Become Dependent on Foreign Sales to Maintain Our Business If the FDA or other state or Federal government agencies restrict or prohibit the sale of personal vaporizers in the United States, in part or in whole, our ability to maintain our business is dependent on our ability to successfully commercialize our product and brands in foreign jurisdictions where our product can be sold. Our inability to establish distribution in foreign jurisdictions, specifically those that allow for the sale of personal vaporizers will deprive us of the operating revenue we require to fund any domestic regulatory approval effort and continue to maintain our business operations. Foreign Commercialization Will Result in Additional Costs and Expenses. Commercializing our product in foreign countries will likely require us to expend additional resources which may reduce our profit margins; additional expenses including but not limited to, local language advertising and marketing materials, packaging, translating product documentation, additionally we may be required to retain foreign counsel to ensure compliance with foreign laws, regulations and taxing regimes, in addition to drafting and enforcing contracts with foreign distributors. If we fail to commercialize our products in foreign jurisdictions we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage not only in those foreign jurisdictions but in each market in which we have a presence. If we are unable to be competitive we risk losing market share, a decrease in operating revenues all of which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to operate our business. Our Success is Dependent Upon Our Marketing Efforts. We have limited marketing experience in marketing personal vaporizers and limited financial, personnel and other resources to undertake extensive marketing activities. If we are unable to generate significant market awareness for our products and our brands our operations may not generate sufficient revenues for us to execute our business plan, generate revenues and achieve profitable operations. If we are to gain FDA Regulatory Approval to Market our Products, We will need to develop marketing, distribution and production capabilities or relationships to be successful. We do not currently have the pharmaceutical marketing, distribution or production capabilities required to generate sales of our candidate products, to do so we must either acquire or develop an internal marketing force with technical expertise and with supporting documentation capabilities, or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services for us. The acquisition and development of a pharmaceutical marketing and distribution infrastructure will require substantial resources and compete for available resources with our product development efforts. To the extent that we enter into marketing and distribution arrangements with third parties, our revenues will depend on the efforts of others. If we fail to enter into such agreements, or if we fail to develop our own marketing and distribution channels, we would experience delays in product sales and incur increased costs. 9 Table of Contents Similarly, should we gain regulatory approval to market our candidate products. we may be required to contract with an FDA approved manufacturing facility. We have no assurances that we will be able to contract with manufacturing providers that will meet our requirements, and or pass FDA inspection. Moreover, if any third party fails to perform on a timely basis we may not be able to find a suitable replacement. If we cannot obtain a sufficient supply of product, it would have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully operate our business. We Rely on the Efforts of Our Outside Independent Sales Force to Generate Sales We rely, in part, on the efforts of our independent sales distributors to purchase and distribute our product to wholesalers and or retailers to generate revenues. No single distributor currently accounts for a material percentage of our revenues and we believe that should any of these relationships terminate we would be able to find suitable replacements, however any change in distributors or our ability to timely replace any given distributor would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We rely, in part, on the efforts of outside independent salespersons and Internet sales affiliates to generate sales for our company. No single independent salesperson of Internet affiliate currently accounts for a material percentage of our revenues and we believe that should any of these relationships terminate we would be able to find suitable replacements, however any loss of these independent sales persons or our Internet sales affiliates could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We May Not Be Able to Adapt to Trends In our Industry We may not be able to adapt as the personal vaporizer industry and customer demand evolves; whether attributable to regulatory constraints, mis-management or a lack of financial resources or, our failure to respond in a timely manner; to new technologies, customer preferences, changing market conditions or new developments in our industry. Any of the failures to adapt or inabilities described herein or otherwise would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Existing or Pending Patents Could Prevent Us From Operating Our Business In Its Present Form. Ruyan, a Chinese company, has made certain public claims as to their ownership of a Chinese patent relating to an “Atomizing Electronic Cigarette.” We currently purchase our products from Chinese manufacturers other than Ruyan. Should Ruyan’s patent be valid and enforceable and cover the devices we purchase from our suppliers, we may be forced to pay more for our products or we may be cutoff from our supply. We may also face a potential action by Ruyan, which we may be forced to defend and which we may ultimately lose. Should any of these events occur, they are likely to have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business as a going concern. R. J. Reynolds one of the largest tobacco companies in the world has filed a patent application for a “Tobacco-Containing Smoking Article.” If R.J. Reynolds patent is awarded and our products are found to be infringing on their patent, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Neither Ruyan or R.J. Reynolds has contacted us regarding any possible infringement of their intellectual property rights nor has any party commenced or threatened to commence any legal action against us. If we are required to participate in litigation we may not have the resources to fund the required litigation costs, which may adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In the event that either Ruyan or R. J. Reynolds’ patents are enforceable against us, we may be required to obtain a license to the covered intellectual property or substantially modify or redesign our existing product line in order to continue operations. We can offer no assurance that a license would be available on acceptable terms or at all, or that we will be able to revise our business model economically, efficiently or at all. We Depend On Third Party Suppliers and Manufacturers For Our Personal Vaporizer Products. We do not own or control our supply chain our suppliers or our suppliers’ suppliers, therefore we are unable to control or ensure our supply of products or the consistency of those products. We depend on third-party suppliers and manufacturers for our personal vaporizer products, which includes, but is not limited to, our electrical components, technology, flavorings and essences. Our customers associate certain characteristics of our products including the weight, feel, draw, flavor, packaging and other unique attributes of our products to the brands we market, distribute and sell. Any interruption in supply and or consistency of our products may harm our relationships and goodwill with customers, and have a materially adverse affect on our cash flow and our operations. 10 Table of Contents Although we believe that several alternative sources for our products are available, any failure to obtain the components, chemicals constituents and manufacturing services necessary for the production of our products would have a material adverse effect on our business and prevent us from timely execution of our business plan and may result in additional expenditures of time and money in seeking viable new sources of supply and manufacturer alternatives. Moreover our inability to replicate those certain characteristics of our products which our customers associate and enjoy, which are unique to our brands, may cause a loss of customer loyalty, patronage and goodwill and which may have a material adverse effect on our business. We Use Chinese Manufacturers for the Production of Our Products Our suppliers and product manufacturers are based in China. Certain Chinese factories and the products they export have recently been the source of safety concerns and recalls, which is generally attributed to lax regulatory, quality control and safety standards. Should Chinese factories continue to draw public criticism for exporting unsafe products, whether those products relate to us or not we may be adversely and materially affected by the stigma associated with Chinese production, which would effect our business operation, our revenues and our financial projections and prospects. Moreover, products manufactured by our Chinese suppliers that are not considered safe and or those products that do not comply with U.S. safety and health standards may cause significant harm and or death to persons who use the product and subject us to liability and potential legal claims and cause injury to our reputation, goodwill and operating results. Product Exchanges, Returns, Warranty Claims, Defect and Recalls May Adversely Affect Our Business Any and all products are subject to customer service claims, malfunctions and defects, which may subject us to requests for product exchanges, returns, warranty claims and recalls. If we are unable to maintain a certain degree of quality control of our products we will incur costs of replacing and or recalling our products and servicing our customers. Any product returns, exchanges, and or recalls we may make will have a material adverse effect on our business, our operations and our profitability and will likely result in the loss of customers and goodwill. Moreover products that do not meet our quality control standards and or those products that do not comply with U.S. safety and health standards or that may be defective may reduce the effectiveness, enjoyment and or cause harm to property, person and or death to persons who use the product. Any such instance will likely result in claims against us and potentially subject us to liability and legal claims which may cause injury to our reputation, goodwill and operating results. We May Be Unable To Promote And Maintain Our Brands. We believe that establishing and maintaining the brand identities of our products is a critical aspect of attracting and expanding a large client base. Promotion and enhancement of our brands will depend largely on our success in continuing to provide high quality products. If our customers and end users do not perceive our products to be of high quality, or if we introduce new products or enter into new business ventures that are not favorably received by our customers and end users, we will risk diluting our brand identities and decreasing their attractiveness to existing and potential customers. Moreover, in order to attract and retain customers and to promote and maintain our brand equity in response to competitive pressures, we may have to increase substantially our financial commitment to creating and maintaining a distinct brand loyalty among our customers. If we incur significant expenses in an attempt to promote and maintain our brands, our profitability will likely be impaired. We Depend on Our Intellectual Property Rights to Distinguish our Brands and Products Our current intellectual property rights are limited to Copyright, Trademark and common law claims of use which are established by registration, publication or use. We have filed trademark applications for our brands, Krave, EZsmoker, Fifty-One, Smoke Star and Green Puffer, these trade names which we have established and used in commerce are at various stages of the trademark application process, however we expect to be awarded trademarks on each and have not been contacted by any third parties with respect to our use of these marks. 11 Table of Contents If we are unable to trademark our brands or if others assert claims to the right to our marks which are synonymous to our brands, we will be adversely and materially harmed as a result of our inability to continue to use the marks that have become associated with our products, the existence of any confusion by and between our products and others and a loss of any and all goodwill we have developed as a result of our investment in our brands. Our current and future business activities, products and brands may infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, and third parties may assert infringement claims against us. Any such claims and resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages and could result in the invalidation of our proprietary rights. Even if not meritorious, such claims could be time-consuming, expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of our management’s time and attention. In addition, this diversion of managerial resources could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We Expect that New Products and/or Brands We Develop will Expose Us to Risks That May be Difficult to Identify Until Such Products and/or Brands are Launched. We are currently developing, and in the future will continue to develop, new products and brands, the risks of which will be difficult to ascertain until these products and or brands are commercially launched. For example, we are developing a new look and feel to our personal vaporizer, in addition to different formulations, flavors, potencies, packaging and distribution channels. Any negative events or results that may arise as we develop new products or brands may adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. We Depend On The Efforts Of our Management. Our Management Team Lacks Experience In Managing A Public Company and the Obligations Incident to Being a Public Company Will Place Significant Demands on Our Management. Our officers lack experience in running a public company. Our success is substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers. In particular, our success depends substantially on the continued efforts of our executive officers and our Board of Directors. As a public reporting company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, including periodic reports, disclosures and more complex accounting rules. As directed by Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on a company’s internal control over financial reporting in their Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing our financial statements must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Based on current rules, we are required to report under Section 404(a) of Sarbanes-Oxley regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over our financial reporting as required by Section 404(a), investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Further, commencing with the 2010 fiscal year, our auditors will be required, under Section 404(b) of Sarbanes-Oxley, to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Currently, we do not have key person life insurance on our executive officers or board members and may be unable to obtain such insurance in the near future due to high cost or other reasons. We also do not have written employment agreements with any of these key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers/key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, if we are unable to find suitable replacements. Our ability to implement our strategy of attracting and retaining employees may be impaired by the uncertainty in our business due to the FDA’s public statements. Recent FDA statements with respect to electronic cigarette products, the uncertainty of present and future regulations, including our ability to gain regulatory approval to market our products is likely to injure our ability to compete for talented employees and managers, who may be drawn to more established companies and as a result, we may be unable to attract talented employees, managers, consultants and contractors to help us grow our business. We may Encounter Difficulties in Managing Our Growth, Which Would Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. If we are successful in growing our business we will need to significantly expand our operations, which could put significant strain on our management and our operational and financial resources. To manage future growth, we will need to hire, train, and manage additional employees. Concurrent with expanding our operational and marketing capabilities, we will also need to increase our product development activities. We may not be able to support, financially or otherwise, future growth, or hire, train, motivate, and manage the required personnel. Our failure to manage growth effectively could limit our ability to achieve our goals. 12 Table of Contents Our success in managing our growth will depend in part on the ability of our executive officers to continue to implement and improve our operational, management, information and financial control systems and to expand, train and manage our employee base, and particularly to attract, expand, train, manage and retain a sales force to market our products on acceptable terms. Our inability to manage growth effectively could cause our operating costs to grow at a faster pace than we currently anticipate, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We Face a Risk of Product Liability Claims and may not be Able to Obtain Adequate Insurance. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that may arise from the clinical testing, manufacture, and sale of our products. Substantial damage awards in certain jurisdictions against pharmaceutical and tobacco companies based on claims for injuries allegedly caused by the use of pharmaceutical and tobacco products. Liability claims may be expensive to defend and result in large judgments against us. We currently carry liability insurance, however there is no assurance that it will continue to be available to us at an affordable price if at all. Our insurance may not reimburse us, or the coverage may not be sufficient to cover claims made against us. We cannot predict any or all of the possible harms or side effects that may result from the use of our current products or any future products and, therefore, the amount of insurance coverage we currently hold may not be adequate to cover all liabilities we might incur. If we are sued for any injury allegedly caused by our products, our liability could exceed our ability to pay the liability. Whether or not we are ultimately successful in any adverse litigation, such litigation could consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and stock price. We Face Substantial And Increasing Competition. We face intense competition from direct and indirect competitors, including “big pharma,” “big tobacco” and other known and established or yet to be formed personal vaporizer and electronic cigarette companies, each of whom pose a competitive threat to our current business and future prospects. We expect competition to intensify in the future. Certain of these companies are either currently competing with us or are focusing significant resources on providing products that will compete with our personal vaporizer product offerings in the future. Our principal competitors can be classified into three main categories: 1) pharmaceutical companies; 2) tobacco companies; and 3) other personal vaporizer and electronic cigarette companies. Pharmaceutical companies market smoking cessation aids and alternative nicotine delivery products such as Glaxo SmithKline that market Nicorette® stop smoking chewing gum Nicoderm® the stop smoking patch and Zyban® a sustained release tablet , Pfizer that markets Chantix® and Nicotrol® the nicotine inhaler. Tobacco companies, including Phillip Morris, R. J. Reynolds, and Lorillard who currently offer traditional tobacco products and may introduce new tobacco based cigarettes and smoking devices (eg. the “tobacco containing smoking article” covered by patent # 20080092912 as filed by R.J. Reynolds, one of the worlds largest tobacco companies.) We also face competition from smaller tobacco companies that are much larger, better funded and more established than us. Electronic cigarette companies, that currently market competing products, which include but are not limited to, Njoy, Smoking Everywhere and Smoke Free Innotech, a publicly traded company. Moreover these competitors may, like us may seek regulatory approvals to market their products and these competitors may succeed in obtaining FDA approval for products more rapidly than we can. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against any of the aforementioned competitors, who likely have far greater resources, capital, experience, market penetration, sales and distribution channels than us. We have no assurances that we will be able to compete with these formidable competitors and that we will be successful in operating our business and ever achieving profitability. Our inability to successfully compete against these or any of our competitors will have a material adverse effect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Litigation and Government regulation will dictate who will be our direct competitors and how we can market our products, if at all. The manner in which we are able to sell, market and distribute our products will likely be a result of new and existing U.S. FDA regulations, and how those regulations effect us will likely be determined by a judgment from the Federal district court for the District of Columbia and or other appellate courts. If a court of competent jurisdiction and or the FDA determines that our product is a smoking cessation device or a nicotine replacement product and assuming we gain regulatory approval and or otherwise are able and required to market our products as drug products, we will face intense competition from large pharmaceutical companies with far greater resources, capital, experience, market penetration, sales and distribution channels than us. We have no assurances that we will be able to compete with these formidable competitors and that we will be successful in operating our business and ever achieving profitability. If a court of competent jurisdiction and or the FDA determines we are a tobacco product and assuming we gain regulatory approval and or otherwise are able and required to market our products as tobacco products, we will face intense competition from tobacco companies with far greater resources, capital, experience, market penetration, sales and distribution channels than us. We have no assurances that we will be able to compete with these formidable competitors and that we will be successful in operating our business and ever achieving profitability. We Face Competition from Foreign Importers Who Do Not Comply With Government Regulation We face competition from foreign sellers of personal vaporizers who may illegally ship their products in to the United States for direct delivery to customers. These market participants will not have the added cost and expense of complying with U.S. regulations and taxes and as a result will be able to offer their product at a more competitive price than us and potentially capture market share. Moreover, should we be unable to sell certain of our products during any regulatory approval process we have no assurances that we will be able to recapture those customers that we lost to our foreign domiciled competitors during any “blackout” periods, wherein we were not permitted to sell our products. This competitive disadvantage may have a material adverse impact on our ability to compete with competitors, which may result in a loss of revenue and market share and hamper our ability to generate revenue and continue to operate as a going concern. Restrictions On the Use of Our Products may Reduce the Attractiveness and Demand for Our Personal Vaporizers Our product since it emits no smoke and no smell can be used in places where the use of traditional tobacco products, exclusive of smokeless tobacco is prohibited. Should city, state or federal regulators, municipalities, local governments and private industry likewise restrict the use of our personal vaporizer products from use in those same places where the use of tobacco products is prohibited, our customers may reduce or otherwise cease using our products entirely, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and performance. Liability for Improper Marketing, Medical Claims and Labeling As a distributor and marketer of a product that the FDA may assert is a smoking cessation device and or a tobacco product, the Company faces potential fines, sanctions, administrative actions, penalties, and other liability for: improper labeling, making improper claims, referencing or publishing to its websites, marketing materials, advertisements, testimonials or representations that certain of our products have the ability or potential to treat, cure or otherwise improve a medical condition, and or provide a healthier alternative to other more traditional tobacco products. Moreover, if the FDA asserts we are a tobacco product, we may be required to follow federal and state tobacco labeling laws, and could face potential fines, sanctions, administrative actions, penalties and other liability either civil and or criminal for any violations thereof. We discovered that one or more unrelated persons posted their personal unsolicited accounts and experiences with our products to one of our websites which upon notice and inspection we removed as the accounts could be construed as an improper medical claim. Any violation of law with respect to the company’s marketing materials, and or labeling could expose the Company to liability including but not limited to fines, sanctions, administrative actions, penalties, civil actions and or criminal prosecution. And although the Company maintains general liability insurance, the Company’s insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify the Company for all liability that may be imposed. In addition any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance, is in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. (See “Government Regulation.”) 14 Table of Contents Internet Security Poses a Risk To Our E-Commerce Sales. At present we generate significant revenues through the sale of our products through our websites. We manage our websites and e-commerce platform internally and as a result any compromise of our security or misappropriation of proprietary information could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from other companies to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure Internet transmission of confidential information, such as credit and other proprietary information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect client transaction data. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause material interruptions in our operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to minimize problems caused by security breaches. To the extent that our activities or the activities of others involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information, security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. For example the storage and loss of credit card numbers, that may reside on our servers and be used directly by us or by our service suppliers (ex. merchant account processors). Our security measures may not prevent security breaches. Our failure to prevent these security breaches may result in consumer distrust and may result in a loss of sales and resultantly a loss of revenues. Credit Card Payment Processors and Merchant Account Risk We accept credit cards as a means of payment for the sale of our products. Two of our credit card processors, have recently, prompted by public statements made by the FDA with regard to the “illegality” of electronic cigarettes, have alerted us that they would no longer willing or able to process credit card transactions on our behalf for our electronic cigarette products. If we are unable to find suitable replacement providers or an alternative method of payment for our customers or these credit card processing companies continue to hold our funds, our cash-flow will be constrained and our sales may be effected which may have a material adverse effect on our performance, financial condition and results of operations. The Former Shareholder of Smoke Anywhere USA Are Controlling Stockholders, Our Stockholders May Be Unable To Affect Corporate Activity Without The Support Of These Individuals. The former shareholders of Smoke Anywhere USA, Inc. as a result of our reverse merger collectively own a majority of our outstanding common stock and, therefore, are able to control all matters requiring approval of our stockholders. Accordingly, our other stockholders may not be able to effect corporate action after this offering without the supporting vote of one or more of these individuals. Our Earnings Could be Adversely Affected by Currency Exchange Rates and Currency Devaluations. The bulk of our revenues are currently generated in U.S. dollars, however our manufacturers and suppliers are located in China. Fluctuations in exchange rates between our respective currencies could result in higher production and supply costs to us which would have an adverse effect on our profit margins and our business operation if we re not willing or able to pass those costs on to our customers or effectively hedge our currency exposure. Moreover, if we attempt to hedge our risk in the currency markets and are unsuccessful and or if our competitors are more successful arbitraging the currency risk we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to other market participants which would have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Risks Related To Government Regulation State Actions Against Us May have a Material Effect on our Ability to Sell Our Products On February 15, 2010, in response to a civil investigative demand from the Office of the Attorney General of the State of Maine, we voluntarily executed a assurance of discontinuance, with the state of Maine, which restricts our ability to sell electronic cigarettes in the state of Maine until such time as we obtain a retail tobacco license in the state. While suspending sales to residents of Maine is not material to our operations, other electronic cigarette companies have entered into similar agreements with other states, such as the state of Oregon. If numerous states and or more populous states or states in which we generate significant revenues bring actions to restrict sales of our products, by us or our re-sale customers, and if we are unable to satisfactorily responded to their concerns and or acquire the necessary licenses, permissions or permits and or if those licenses permissions or permits are overly burdensome or costly to obtain and or if those licenses, permissions or permits are not available to us; we may be required to cease sales and distribution of our products to those states, which would have a material adverse effect on our business operations. 15 Table of Contents We have not yet applied for any regulatory approval in the United States or any foreign jurisdiction for our product candidates. The regulatory approval process is lengthy, and we may not be able to obtain all of the regulatory approvals required to manufacture and commercialize our product candidates. We have not applied for any regulatory approval in the United States or any foreign jurisdiction for any of our products. We are not resolved as to which if any of our products require FDA approval and which products may require FDA approval to be sold or continue to be sold. To obtain regulatory approval of a product candidate, we must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the applicable regulatory agency that such product candidate is safe and effective for its intended uses. The type and magnitude of the testing required for regulatory approval varies depending on the product candidate and the disease or condition for which it is being developed. In addition, in the U.S. we must show that the facilities used to produce the product candidate are in compliance with cGMP. We will also have to meet similar regulations in any foreign country where we may seek to market and distribute our products. In general, these requirements mandate that manufacturers follow elaborate design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures throughout the entire manufacturing process. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals typically takes several years and requires the expenditure of substantial capital and other resources. Despite the time, expense and resources invested by us in the approval process, we may not be able to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective, in which event we would not receive the regulatory approvals required to market them. The FDA and other regulatory authorities generally approve products for particular indications. While our current focus is a cigarette alternative, we may also intend to seek to market certain of our products as a “reduced harm” cigarette and or a smoking cessation aid. We may not be approved for any or all of the indications that we request, which would limit the indications for which we can promote it and adversely impact our ability to generate revenues. We may be required to conduct costly, post-marketing follow-up studies if FDA requests additional information. A Ruling in a Federal District Court and any Subsequent Appeals, Will Dictate What Regulations We Are Required to Follow, if Any in Marketing Certain of Our Products. The FDA has filed an appeal and an administrative stay has been granted in a ruling adverse to the FDA by the U.S District Court for the District of Columbia titled Smoking Everywhere, Inc. v. U.S. Food and Drug Administration et. al. case # 1:2009cv00771; in which the judge ruled that the United States Food and Drug Administration does not have the authority to seize electronic cigarettes because these products do not qualify as devices subject to the agency’s regulation. The appellate courts findings may serve in defining which regulatory processes and regime that personal vaporizer and electronic cigarette companies will be required to follow in order to bring these products to market. The courts ruling will likely have a significant and material impact on our business model. The Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act Grants the FDA Authority to Regulate Tobacco Products and How they are Marketed and Sold. On June 22, 2009 the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (the “Act”) was signed into law. The effect of this legislation on our business is presently unknown and may place limits on our ability to market and or distribute our products and maintain or bring new products to market. The legislation may impose costly and resource intensive processes to gain regulatory approval and there is no certainty that we will have the capital, resources necessary to comply with the regulation or that we would be ultimately successful in receiving the necessary approvals to continue marketing our product in the United States. Specifically the Act grants the FDA the authority to regulate tobacco products including but not limited to how they are marketed, the level of nicotine and the method for introducing new tobacco products to market. The legislation eliminates all flavoring other than menthol, yet under the legislation the FDA is not empowered to ban certain tobacco products or require that the nicotine in tobacco products be reduced to zero. While the legislation does not mention electronic cigarettes, it does suggest that nicotine and natural tobacco flavoring are tobacco products under the law and as such electronic cigarettes may be covered under this Act. In the event a court of competent jurisdiction or the FDA declares certain of our products, namely electronic cigarettes, tobacco products, we would thereafter be required to comply with the Act and the rules promulgated thereunder, in addition to any existing and future tobacco laws and taxing regimes. The imposition of a tobacco tax on our products would make our products more expensive and less competitive with products that carry no tax or a lesser tax. Imposing a tax on our products would make our product more expensive to consumers and could have an adverse effect on the demand for our product and consequently our revenues. 16 Table of Contents If our product is recognized as a tobacco product, we would become subject to current and future tobacco labeling laws and laws restricting the sale of our product to persons under 18. While we currently do not market our products to minors, unintentional violations may subject us to fines and penalties. Until the FDA establishes the regulatory processes and regime as provided for by the Act, we do not know how and to what degree we will be regulated. Moreover, if the FDA establishes a regulatory process that we are unable or unwilling to comply with our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects would be adversely and materially affected. See section “Government Regulation.” The FDA Regulates How Products are Marketed and Used The FDA regulates claims to diagnose, mitigate, prevent, treat or cure a disease. And the FDA in Smoking Everywhere v. FDA contends that the Intended Use of electronic cigarettes is sufficient for the FDA to assert jurisdiction. If claims made at large by our competitors and third parties, arise to the level to subject us to FDA regulation we may determine it is necessary to change our business model and product to differentiate our product(s) and band(s) so as not to be confused with those companies who improperly market their products. If we are found to have improperly sold or marketed our products in violation of FDA rules, laws or policies, we may be subject to disciplinary, regulatory or administrative actions, fines and or sanctions which may have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial results and business prospects. The FDA Regulates Drugs and Medical Devices, If Our Products are Considered Either or Both We may be subject to Regulation and May in Fact have Violated Federal law in our Previous Sales and Marketing Efforts. We have been engaged in marketing and selling efforts of personal vaporizers and electronic cigarettes since the 4th quarter of 2008. We may have unknowingly and without intent failed to comply with certain regulations relating to our product and the means by which we market and sell our products. Our efforts may have been in violation of existing laws which may subject us to enforcement actions, sanctions, fines, administrative action or other penalties, all which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, performance and results of operations. Regulations on the Transportation of Lithium Ion Batteries may Affect Our Business The Air Line Pilots Association International (ALPA) is calling on the U.S. government to prohibit shipments of lithium-ion batteries on cargo and passenger planes pending new regulations, in light of recent incidents including a battery pack for an electric bicycle and more recently lithium ion batteries in a shipment of electronic cigarettes may have been a contributing factor of a fire on a Fedex cargo plane. In 2004, the regulators at Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) banned the shipment of bulk non-rechargeable lithium batteries on passenger jets. Rechargeable lithium-ion batteries are not as flammable and can be put out with fire extinguishers, but the NTSB has issued a series of recommendations calling for tighter regulation and testing of the batteries. Our products are powered by rechargeable lithium ion batteries and We currently utilize air shipping in addition to sea based container shipping to import our products from their country or origin. If additional restrictions are put in place which limit our ability to import our products by air freight, it could have an adverse effect on our supply chain, our inventory management procedures and processes and our ability to fill orders and service our clients in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our performance, operating results and our financial condition. If We Have Improperly Marketed and Distributed Certain of Our Products in Violation of FDA Regulations We may be Subject to Disciplinary, Actions, Administrative Actions, Sanctions and Fines. We may be subject to disciplinary, administrative and or regulatory actions if the FDA and or a court of proper jurisdiction determines that our products or the means by which we marketed and sold our products was effected without the proper regulatory approvals. Any such disciplinary, regulatory or administrative actions, fines and or sanctions which may have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial results and business prospects. The FDA has Issued an Import Alert Which has Limited Our Ability to Import Certain of Our Products As a result of FDA import alert 66-41 US Customs has from time to time temporarily and in some instances indefinitely detained products sent to us by our Chinese suppliers. If the FDA and or customs modifies the import alert from its current form which allows US customs’ discretion to release our products to us, to a mandatory and definitive hold we will no longer be able to ensure a supply of product for US sales, which will have material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues, as domestic sales currently account for a significant portion of our revenue. 17 Table of Contents Changes in Governmental Regulation May Affect the Countries in Which we Sell Our products Foreign jurisdiction have varying policies and laws with respect to the use of personal vaporizers that vaporize nicotine, countries such as the United Kingdom do not restrict its use while other countries such as Thailand have instituted a total ban. If countries such as the United Kingdom reverse their stance or should other countries who have a neutral stance move towards prohibition, it will have a direct impact on our ability to market our products and will have a material adverse effect on our business. Actions by the FDA Adverse to Our Company and Our Products may Restrict our Ability to do Business Domestically and Internationally. The United States Food and Drug Administration is the largest and most pervasive health regulator in the world, should we be unable to comply with FDA regulations or should the FDA refuse registration of our products and or should the FDA ban or prohibit the sale and or marketing of our products, other regulators from different countries may assume the same position with respect to our product, causing us substantial harm and raise questions with respect to our ability to continue to operate our business in its current form or at all. Our Products Contain Two Components Each and or Both of which may Require FDA Approvals to be Marketed Our products have two functional components, the electrical device, which contains the air flow sensor, microchip, lithium ion battery, the heating element and other electrical components and the liquid solution which is may or may not contain nicotine or a placebo. The FDA may assert that the liquid solution and the electronic device are 2 separate and distinct components each requiring separate regulatory approvals, which would could result in additional fees, costs, studies, trials and time. We intend to use reasonable efforts to file for the appropriate approvals to allow us to sell our product in the United States however we have no indication that at present we will be able to afford to pursue regulatory approval and that if we are able to pursue said approval we have no assurances that the outcome of said approval process will result in our products being approved by the FDA. Moreover, if the FDA establishes a regulatory process that we are unable or unwilling to comply with our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects would be adversely affected. See section “Government Regulation.” If our Third-Party Suppliers or Contract Manufacturers do not Maintain Appropriate Standards of Manufacturing in Accordance with cGMP and Other Manufacturing Regulations, our Development and Commercialization Activities Could Suffer Significant Interruptions or Delays. We rely, and intend to continue to rely, on third-party suppliers and contract manufacturers to provide us with materials for our clinical trials and commercial-scale production of our products. These suppliers and manufacturers must continuously adhere to cGMP as well as any applicable corresponding manufacturing regulations outside of the U.S. In complying with these regulations, we and our third-party suppliers and contract manufacturers must expend significant time, money and effort in the areas of design and development, testing, production, record-keeping and quality control to assure that our products meet applicable specifications and other regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in an enforcement action against us, including warning letters, the seizure of products, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, shutting down of production and criminal prosecution. Any of these third-party suppliers or contract manufacturers will also be subject to audits by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. If any of our third-party suppliers or contract manufacturers fail to comply with cGMP or other applicable manufacturing regulations, our ability to develop and commercialize our products could suffer significant interruptions and delays. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured the product ourselves, including: • reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance; • reliance on the continued financial viability of the third parties; • limitations on supply availability resulting from capacity and scheduling constraints of the third parties; • impact on our reputation in the marketplace if manufacturers of our products, once commercialized, fail to meet the demands of our customers; 18 Table of Contents • the possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control; and • the possible termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. If any of our contract manufacturers fail to achieve and maintain appropriate manufacturing standards, patients using our product candidates could be injured or die, resulting in product liability claims. Even absent patient injury, we may be subject to product recalls, product seizures or withdrawals, delays or failures in testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business or profitability. Risks Related to FDA Regulation Our Product development Efforts may fail. Development of our product candidates is subject to risks of failure. For example: • The nicotine based personal vaporizer may be found to be ineffective or unsafe, or fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals; • Our personal vaporizers may be uneconomical to market or take substantially longer to obtain necessary regulatory approvals than anticipated; or • competitors may market equivalent or superior products. As a result, our product development activities may not result in any safe, effective and commercially viable products, and we may not be able to commercialize our products successfully. Our failure to develop safe, effective, and commercially viable products would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Failure can Occur at any Stage of our Product Development Efforts. We will only obtain regulatory approval to commercialize synthetic nicotine, nicotine derived from tobacco and or tobacco based personal vaporizers, if we can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA (or the equivalent foreign regulatory authorities) in adequate and well-controlled clinical studies that the product(s) is safe and effective for its intended use and that it otherwise meets approval requirements. A failure of one or more clinical or non-clinical studies can occur at any stage of product development. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, testing that could delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval for or commercializing these certain products, including but not limited to: • regulators or institutional review boards, which are commonly called IRBs, may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; • conditions may be imposed upon us by the FDA regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials, or we may be required to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for re-inspection due to changes in the regulatory environment; • the number of subjects required for our clinical trials may be larger than we anticipate, patient enrollment may take longer than we anticipate, or patients may drop out of our clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate; • we may have to suspend or terminate one or more of our clinical trials if we, regulators, or IRBs determine that the participants are being subjected to unreasonable health risks; • our third-party contractors or clinical investigators may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or fail to meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner; • our tests may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional testing; and • the costs of our clinical and/or non-clinical trials may be greater than we anticipate. 19 Table of Contents We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and if they do not perform their obligations to us we may not be able to obtain approval for Certain of Our Products. We do not have the ability to conduct our clinical trials independently. In the event we conduct clinical trials of certain of our products We will rely on academic institutions and other third-party research organizations to assist us in designing, managing, monitoring and otherwise carrying out our clinical trials. Accordingly, we do not have control over the timing or other aspects of our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their duties, both our clinical trials and our business may be materially adversely affected. While we believe that there are numerous third parties that can assist us with our clinical trials, if the third parties with which we contract do not perform, our product development efforts would likely be delayed by any such change, and our efforts would likely be more expensive. Although we intend to rely on third parties to manage the data from these clinical trials, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies will require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practice, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that the data and the results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these obligations and requirements, and we may fail to obtain regulatory approval for our candidate products if these requirements are not met. If Our Non-Clinical or Clinical Trials are Unsuccessful or Significantly Delayed, Our Ability to Commercialize Our Product Candidates May be Impaired. Before we can obtain regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates, we may have to conduct, at our own expense, non-clinical tests in animals order to support the safety of certain of our products. Non-clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take several years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. While the scope of the required Phase I clinical trials are currently uncertain, Our non-clinical tests may produce negative or inconclusive results, and on the basis of such results, we may decide, or regulators may require us, to halt ongoing clinical trials or conduct additional non-clinical testing. Additionally, we will likely be required to conduct clinical trials demonstrating the efficacy and safety of certain our products in humans. Even if the results of our clinical trials are promising, our product candidates may subsequently fail to meet the safety and efficacy standards required to obtain regulatory approvals. Future clinical trials for our products may not be successfully completed or may take longer than anticipated because of any number of factors, including potential delays in the start of the trial, an inability to recruit clinical trial participants at the expected rate, failure to demonstrate safety and efficacy, unforeseen safety issues, or unforeseen governmental or regulatory delays. Moreover, any clinical trials we might develop and implement may not be completed in a timely manner or at all and our product candidates may not be found to be safe and effective, and may not be approved by regulatory authorities for its proposed use. Further, regulatory authorities and IRBs that must approve and monitor the safety of each clinical study may suspend a clinical study at any time if the patients participating in such study are deemed to be exposed to any unacceptable health risk. We may also choose to suspend clinical trials and studies if we become aware of any such risks. In other countries where our product candidates or any other product we develop may be marketed, we will also be subject to regulatory requirements governing human clinical studies and marketing approval for drugs. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical studies, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement varies widely from country to country. We Have Not Conducted any Clinical or Non-Clinical Testing for Our Product Candidates and We are not Certain at this Time Which Clinical or Non-Clinical Tests the FDA Will Require with Respect to any NDA that We may File. The FDA will require us to submit data from non-clinical testing for our product candidates before approving our product. We do not yet know what non-clinical tests will be required or whether any non-clinical tests will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. We do not know whether the non-clinical tests that we undertake, if conducted, will be acceptable to the FDA nor have not initiated discussions with the FDA in this regard. 20 Table of Contents Despite Our Efforts We may Fail to Gain Regulatory Approval For our Products The FDA approval process as further described in the below section titled “Government Regulation” is both capital and time intensive and we have no assurances that we will have the resources to pursue the regulatory process and if we do there are no assurances that we will be able to complete the approval process that our products will ultimately gain approval for sale. If we are unable to gain regulatory approval for our products, our operations, financial results and business prospects would be adversely effected and our ability to continue to operate would be severely impaired. Even if we are successful at winning regulatory approval from the FDA, a prescription may be required to buy our products. Drug products are sold either over the counter (OTC) or by prescription; in the event we win regulatory approval from the FDA, the FDA may still be require that our products be sold by prescription, from a licensed and practicing medical doctor. If our product requires a prescription to be sold it would limit our ability to sell our products, increase our marketing and distribution costs and would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and require us to change our business model and sell our products through new distribution channels. Post-approval marketing of our products will be subject to substantial government regulation. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines and withdrawal of approvals. Even if our products receive regulatory approvals, we will be subject to extensive ongoing government regulation. The FDA or other regulatory authorities may impose strict limitations on the distribution, marketing, and use for a product, impose a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS), that could include further restrictions on distribution and use, subsequently withdraw approval or take other actions against us or our products for many reasons, including subsequent discoveries of previously unknown problems or safety issues with the product. Also, based on subsequent events or other circumstances that may come to our attention, we may voluntarily take action to limit the marketing or use of one or more of our products. We may also be required to conduct additional post-approval non-clinical or clinical studies. We are subject to inspection and market surveillance by regulatory authorities for compliance with regulations that prohibit the promotion of a medical product for a purpose or indication other than those for which approval has been granted. While a medical product manufacturer may not promote a product for such “off-label” use, doctors are allowed, in the exercise of their professional judgment in the practice of medicine, to use a product in ways not approved by regulatory authorities. Regulatory authorities have broad enforcement power, and any failure by us to comply with manufacturing or marketing regulations could result in penalties, including warning letters, fines, partial or total suspension of production, product recalls or seizures, withdrawals of previously approved marketing approvals or applications, and criminal prosecutions. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Stock Our Board of Directors is Authorized to Issue Additional Shares of Our Stock Which Would Dilute Existing Shareholders. We are currently authorized to authorize up to 250,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 60,000,000 shares are currently issued and outstanding. Additional shares of our common stock may be issued by our board of directors for such consideration as they may consider sufficient without seeking stockholder approval. The issuance of additional shares of common stock in the future will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of current stockholders. Your Percentage Ownership of our Common Shares may be Diluted by Future Share Issuances To the extent we issue new shares to fund acquisitions, to raise additional capital, to compensate employees and other persons your percentage ownership of our shares will be diluted. We Do Not Intend To Pay Future Cash Dividends. We currently do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock at any time in the near future. We may never pay cash dividends or distributions on our common stock. Any credit agreements which we may enter into with institutional lenders may restrict our ability to pay dividends. Whether we pay cash dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and any other factors that the board of directors decides is relevant. 21 Table of Contents Our Common Stock is Illiquid And Should A Market For Our Securities Develop The Price Of Our Securities May Be Volatile. Our shares are currently listed on the National Quotation Bureaus Pink Sheets, the market for our securities is and will likely remain illiquid. This means that as an investor you will likely have a difficult time selling our Common Stock at market. Furthermore because of the small amount of shares that will be outstanding and or in the public float, the market price of our common stock may experience significant volatility. Other factors that may contribute to volatility should a market for our Common Stock develop are, our quarterly results, announcements by us or our competitors regarding acquisitions or dispositions, loss of existing clients, new procedures or technology, litigation, changes in general conditions in the economy and general market conditions could cause the market price of the common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the trading prices of equity securities of many technology and Internet companies. Frequently, these price and volume fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Future Sales Of Our Common Stock May Depress Our Stock Price. If our controlling stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market following this merger or at any time in the future, the market price of our common stock could fall. Existing Shareholders beneficially hold approximately 60,000,000 Shares of which approximately 1,430,732 shares are in the public float and are eligible to be sold free of any restrictions. All other Shares are “restricted” as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act (“Rule 144”). Since the company has previously been designated a shell company, the “restricted” Shares must be held for one year from the date of this filing prior to being eligible to be sold pursuant to Rule 144. The Company can make no prediction as to the effect, if any, that sale of Shares, or the availability of Shares for future sale, will have on the market price of the Shares prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of Shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could depress prevailing market prices for the Shares. Such sales may also make it more difficult for the Company to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price, which it deems appropriate. Broker-Dealers may be discouraged from effecting transactions in our common stock because they may be considered a “Penny Stock” and are subject to the applicable Penny Stock rules. Rules 15g-1 through 15g-9 promulgated under the Exchange Act impose sales practice and disclosure requirements on certain brokers-dealers who engage in certain transactions involving a “penny stock.” Subject to certain exceptions, a penny stock generally includes any non-NASDAQ equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share. There is currently no established price quotation for our shares, however, we expect that initial quotations will not exceed $5.00 and there is the possibility that the quoted shares price may never exceed $5.00, and that our common stock will be deemed penny stock for the purposes of the Exchange Act. The additional sales practice and disclosure requirements imposed upon brokers-dealers may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the stock and impede the sale of our stock in the secondary market. Specifically, any broker-dealer selling penny stock to anyone other than an established customer or “accredited investor,” generally, an individual with net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or an annual income exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with his or her spouse, must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and must receive the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale, unless the broker-dealer or the transaction is otherwise exempt. In addition, the penny stock regulations require the broker-dealer to deliver, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prepared by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the penny stock market, unless the broker-dealer or the transaction is otherwise exempt. A broker-dealer is also required to disclose commissions payable to the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, a broker-dealer is required to send monthly statements disclosing recent price information with respect to the penny stock held in a customer’s account and information with respect to the limited market in penny stocks. 