Item 1A. Risk Factors Various portions of this report contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk factors, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this report. These risk factors are not presented in the order of importance or probability of occurrence. For purposes of these risk factors, the term “electronic cigarettes” is deemed to include “vaporizers.” 15 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business We have incurred losses in the past and cannot assure you that we will achieve or maintain profitable operations. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $1,379,654. Our accumulated deficit is primarily due to, among other reasons, the establishment of our business infrastructure and operations, stock-based compensation expenses and increases in our marketing expenditures to grow sales of our electronic cigarettes. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we had net income of $801,352 compared to a net loss of $1,920,972 for the year ended December 31, 2012. However, we cannot assure you that we will continue to generate operating profits on a sustainable basis as we continue to expand our infrastructure, further develop our marketing efforts and otherwise implement our growth initiatives. We have and may continue to experience liquidity and capital resources constraints because of our significant past operating losses. At December 31, 2013, we had working capital of $11,657,615 compared to $325,836 at December 31, 2012, an increase of $11,331,779. The increase in working capital is primarily attributable to the net proceeds of approximately $9.1 million from the Private Placement and the conversion of approximately $1.7 million of senior convertible notes on October 29, 2013. Although our working capital was $11,657,615 as of December 31, 2013, there is no assurance we will have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to fund our business. In the event we experience liquidity and capital resources constraints because of operating losses, greater than anticipated sales growth or otherwise, we may need to raise additional capital in the form of equity and/or debt financing. If such additional capital is not available on terms acceptable to us or at all then we may need to curtail our operations and/or take additional measures to conserve and manage our liquidity and capital resources, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our five years of operating history, makes it difficult to accurately predict our future sales and appropriately budget our expenses. We acquired Smoke Anywhere USA, Inc., a distributor of electronic cigarettes, on November 5, 2009. Smoke Anywhere USA, Inc. commenced its business in March 2008. Because we have only five years of operating history, and our business is still evolving, it is difficult to accurately predict our future sales and appropriately budget our expenses. Additionally, our operations will be subject to risks inherent in the establishment of a developing new business, including, among other things, efficiently deploying our capital, developing our products, developing and implementing our marketing campaigns and strategies and developing brand awareness and acceptance of our products. Our ability to generate future sales will be dependent on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the pricing of competing products, overall demand for our products, changes in consumer preferences, market competition and government regulation. We are currently evaluating the expansion of our staffing, advertising campaigns and operational expenditures in anticipation of future sales growth. If our sales do not increase as anticipated, we could incur significant losses due to our higher infrastructure expense levels if we are not able to decrease our advertising and operating expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall in future sales. A recent United States Federal Court decision permits the United States Food and Drug Administration to regulate electronic cigarettes as “tobacco products” under the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act of 2009 and the United States Food and Drug Administration has indicated that it intends to do so. Based on the December 2010 U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit’s decision in Sottera, Inc. v. Food & Drug Administration, 627 F.3d 891 (D.C. Cir. 2010), the United States Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) is permitted to regulate electronic cigarettes as “tobacco products” under the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act of 2009 (the “Tobacco Control Act”). 16 Table of Contents Under this Court decision, the FDA is not permitted to regulate electronic cigarettes as “drugs” or “devices” or a “combination product” under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act unless they are marketed for therapeutic purposes. Because we do not market our electronic cigarettes for therapeutic purposes, our electronic cigarettes are subject to being classified as “tobacco products” under the Tobacco Control Act. The Tobacco Control Act grants the FDA broad authority over the manufacture, sale, marketing and packaging of tobacco products, although the FDA is prohibited from issuing regulations banning all cigarettes or all smokeless tobacco products, or requiring the reduction of nicotine yields of a tobacco product to zero. Among other measures, the Tobacco Control Act (under various deadlines): • increases the number of health warnings required on cigarette and smokeless tobacco products, increases the size of warnings on packaging and in advertising, requires the FDA to develop graphic warnings for cigarette packages, and grants the FDA authority to require new warnings; • requires practically all tobacco product advertising to eliminate color and imagery and instead consist solely of black text on white background; • imposes new restrictions on the sale and distribution of tobacco products, including significant new restrictions on tobacco product advertising and promotion as well as the use of brand and trade names; • bans the use of “light,” “mild,” “low” or similar descriptors on tobacco products; • gives the FDA the authority to impose tobacco product standards that are appropriate for the protection of the public health (by, for example, requiring reduction or elimination of the use of particular constituents or components, requiring product testing, or addressing other aspects of tobacco product construction, constituents, properties or labeling); • requires manufacturers to obtain FDA review and authorization for the marketing of certain new or modified tobacco products; • requires pre-market approval by the FDA for tobacco products represented (through labels, labeling, advertising, or other means) as presenting a lower risk of harm or tobacco-related disease; • requires manufacturers to report ingredients and harmful constituents and requires the FDA to disclose certain constituent information to the public; • mandates that manufacturers test and report on ingredients and constituents identified by the FDA as requiring such testing to protect the public health, and allows the FDA to require the disclosure of testing results to the public; • requires manufacturers to submit to the FDA certain information regarding the health, toxicological, behavioral or physiologic effects of tobacco products; • prohibits use of tobacco containing a pesticide chemical residue at a level greater than allowed under federal law; • requires the FDA to establish “good manufacturing practices” to be followed at tobacco manufacturing facilities; • requires tobacco product manufacturers (and certain other entities) to register with the FDA; and • grants the FDA the regulatory authority to impose broad additional restrictions. The Tobacco Control Act also requires establishment, within the FDA’s new Center for Tobacco Products, of a Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee to provide advice, information and recommendations with respect to the safety, dependence or health issues related to tobacco products. 17 Table of Contents As indicated above, the Tobacco Control Act imposes significant new restrictions on the advertising and promotion of tobacco products. For example, the law requires the FDA to finalize certain portions of regulations previously adopted by the FDA in 1996 (which were struck down by the Supreme Court in 2000 as beyond the FDA’s authority). As written, these regulations would significantly limit the ability of manufacturers, distributors and retailers to advertise and promote tobacco products, by, for example, restricting the use of color, graphics and sound effects in advertising, limiting the use of outdoor advertising, restricting the sale and distribution of non-tobacco items and services, gifts, and sponsorship of events and imposing restrictions on the use for cigarette or smokeless tobacco products of trade or brand names that are used for non-tobacco products. The law also requires the FDA to issue future regulations regarding the promotion and marketing of tobacco products sold or distributed over the internet, by mail order or through other non-face-to-face transactions in order to prevent the sale of tobacco products to minors. It is likely that the Tobacco Control Act could result in a decrease in tobacco product sales in the United States, including sales of our electronic cigarettes. While the FDA has not yet mandated electronic cigarettes be regulated as tobacco products, during 2012, the FDA indicated that it intends to regulate electronic cigarettes under the Tobacco Control Act through the issuance of deeming regulations that would include electronic cigarettes under the definition of a “tobacco product” under the Tobacco Control Act subject to the FDA’s jurisdiction. The FDA initially announced that it would issue proposed deeming regulations by April 2013 and then extended the deadline to October 31, 2013. As of the date of this report, the FDA had not taken such action. The application of the Tobacco Control Act to electronic cigarettes could impose, among other things, restrictions on the content of nicotine in electronic cigarettes, the advertising, marketing and sale of electronic cigarettes, the use of certain flavorings and the introduction of new products. We cannot predict the scope of such regulations or the impact they may have on our company specifically or the electronic cigarette industry generally, though if enacted, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In this regard, total compliance and related costs are not possible to predict and depend substantially on the future requirements imposed by the FDA under the Tobacco Control Act. Costs, however, could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, failure to comply with the Tobacco Control Act and with FDA regulatory requirements could result in significant financial penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and ability to market and sell our products. At present, we are not able to predict whether the Tobacco Control Act will impact us to a greater degree than competitors in the industry, thus affecting our competitive position. For a description of risks related to other government regulations, please see “Risks Related to Government Regulation” in this Section. The recent development of electronic cigarettes has not allowed the medical profession to study the long-term health effects of electronic cigarette use. Because electronic cigarettes were recently developed the medical profession has not had a sufficient period of time to study the long-term health effects of electronic cigarette use. Currently, therefore, there is no way of knowing whether or not electronic cigarettes are safe for their intended use. If the medical profession were to determine conclusively that electronic cigarette usage poses long-term health risks, electronic cigarette usage could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if we are taxed like other tobacco products or if we are required to collect and remit sales tax on certain of our internet sales. Presently the sale of electronic cigarettes is not subject to federal, state and local excise taxes like the sale of conventional cigarettes or other tobacco products, all of which have faced significant increases in the amount of taxes collected on their sales. Should federal, state and local governments and or other taxing authorities impose excise taxes similar to those levied against conventional cigarettes and tobacco products on our products, it may have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products, as consumers may be unwilling to pay the increased costs for our products. We may be unable to establish the systems and processes needed to track and submit the excise and sales taxes we collect through Internet sales, which would limit our ability to market our products through our websites which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. States such as New York, Hawaii, Rhode Island and North Carolina have begun collecting sales taxes on Internet sales where companies have used independent contractors in those states to solicit sales from residents of that state. The requirement to collect, track and remit sales taxes based on independent affiliate sales may require us to increase our prices, which may affect demand for our products or conversely reduce our net profit margin, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The market for electronic cigarettes is a niche market, subject to a great deal of uncertainty and is still evolving. Electronic cigarettes, having recently been introduced to market, are at an early stage of development, represent a niche market and are evolving rapidly and are characterized by an increasing number of market entrants. Our future sales and any future profits are substantially dependent upon the widespread acceptance and use of electronic cigarettes. Rapid growth in the use of, and interest in, electronic cigarettes is recent, and may not continue on a lasting basis. The demand and market acceptance for these products is subject to a high level of uncertainty. Therefore, we are subject to all of the business risks associated with a new enterprise in a niche market, including risks of unforeseen capital requirements, failure of widespread market acceptance of electronic cigarettes, in general or, specifically our products, failure to establish business relationships and competitive disadvantages as against larger and more established competitors. We face intense competition and our failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Competition in the electronic cigarette industry is intense. We compete with other sellers of electronic cigarettes, most notably Lorillard, Inc., Altria Group, Inc. and Reynolds American Inc., big tobacco companies, through their electronic cigarettes business segments; the nature of our competitors is varied as the market is highly fragmented and the barriers to entry into the business are low. We compete primarily on the basis of product quality, brand recognition, brand loyalty, service, marketing, advertising and price. We are subject to highly competitive conditions in all aspects of our business. The competitive environment and our competitive position can be significantly influenced by weak economic conditions, erosion of consumer confidence, competitors’ introduction of low-priced products or innovative products, cigarette excise taxes, higher absolute prices and larger gaps between price categories, and product regulation that diminishes the ability to differentiate tobacco products. Our principal competitors are “big tobacco”, U.S. cigarette manufacturers of both conventional tobacco cigarettes and electronic cigarettes like Altria Group, Inc., Lorillard, Inc. and Reynolds American Inc. We compete against “big tobacco” who offers not only conventional tobacco cigarettes and electronic cigarettes but also smokeless tobacco products such as “snus” (a form of moist ground smokeless tobacco that is usually sold in sachet form that resembles small tea bags), chewing tobacco and snuff. Furthermore, we believe that “big tobacco” will devote more attention and resources to developing and offering electronic cigarettes as the market for electronic cigarettes grows. Because of their well-established sales and distribution channels, marketing expertise and significant resources, “big tobacco” is better positioned 19 Table of Contents than small competitors like us to capture a larger share of the electronic cigarette market. We also compete against numerous other smaller manufacturers or importers of cigarettes. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against any of our competitors, some of whom have far greater resources, capital, experience, market penetration, sales and distribution channels than us. If our major competitors were, for example, to significantly increase the level of price discounts offered to consumers, we could respond by offering price discounts, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Sales of conventional tobacco cigarettes have been declining, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The overall U.S. market for conventional tobacco cigarettes has generally been declining in terms of volume of sales, as a result of restrictions on advertising and promotions, funding of smoking prevention campaigns, increases in regulation and excise taxes, a decline in the social acceptability of smoking, and other factors, and such sales are expected to continue to decline. Recently, a national drug store chain announced that it would cease selling tobacco products by October 1, 2014. If other national drug store chains also decide to cease selling tobacco products, cigarette sales could decline further. While the sales of electronic cigarettes have been increasing over the last several years, the electronic cigarette market is only developing and is a fraction of the size of the conventional tobacco cigarette market. A continual decline in cigarette sales may adversely affect the growth of the electronic cigarette market, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Third party assertions of our infringement of their intellectual property rights could result in our having to incur significant costs and modify the way in which we currently operate our business. Although we have filed patent applications, we do not own any domestic or foreign patents relating to our electronic cigarettes. The electronic cigarette industry is nascent and third parties may claim patent rights over one or more types of electronic cigarettes. For example, Ruyan Investment (Holdings) Limited (“Ruyan”), a Chinese company, has made certain public claims as to their ownership of patents relating to an “Atomizing Electronic Cigarette” and has filed two separate lawsuits against us. We and Ruyan settled the first lawsuit on March 1, 2013, while the other lawsuit has been stayed along with other patent infringement lawsuits filed by Ruyan against other defendants pending the results of an inter partes reexamination requested by one of the defendants in the other lawsuits. For a description of Ruyan’s first lawsuit against us and the related settlement and Ruyan’s second lawsuit against us and the related stay, please see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this report. We currently purchase our products from Chinese manufacturers other than Ruyan. Ruyan’s lawsuit as well as any other third party lawsuits alleging our infringement of patents, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights could cause us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; • incur significant legal expenses; • pay substantial damages to the party whose intellectual property rights we may be found to be infringing; • redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property; or • attempt to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property from third parties, which may not be available to us on reasonable terms or at all. There is no assurance that third party lawsuits alleging our infringement of patents, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights could not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights in China or elsewhere, which could harm our business and competitive position. We believe that patents, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property we use and are developing are important to sustaining and growing our business. We utilize third party manufacturers to manufacture our products in China, where the validity, enforceability and scope of protection available under intellectual property laws are uncertain and still evolving. Implementation and enforcement of Chinese intellectual property-related laws have historically been deficient, ineffective and hampered by corruption and local protectionism. Accordingly, we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property in China, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property in China and elsewhere is difficult and expensive, and we may need to resort to litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others. Such litigation and an adverse determination in any such litigation, if any, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention, which could harm our business and competitive position. Electronic cigarettes face intense media attention and public pressure. Electronic cigarettes are new to the marketplace and since their introduction certain members of the media, politicians, government regulators and advocate groups, including independent medical physicians have called for an outright ban of all electronic cigarettes, pending regulatory review and a demonstration of safety. A partial or outright ban would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on a limited number of key employees and may experience difficulty in attracting and hiring qualified new personnel in some areas of our business. The loss of any of our key employees could adversely affect our business. As a member of the tobacco industry, we may experience difficulty in identifying and hiring qualified executives and other personnel in some areas of our business. This difficulty is primarily attributable to the health and social issues associated with the tobacco industry. The loss of services of any key employees or our inability to attract, hire and retain personnel with requisite skills could restrict our ability to develop new products, enhance existing products in a timely manner, sell products or manage our business effectively. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience product liability claims in our business, which could adversely affect our business. The tobacco industry in general has historically been subject to frequent product liability claims. As a result, we may experience product liability claims from the marketing and sale of electronic cigarettes. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in: • liabilities that substantially exceed our product liability insurance, which we would then be required to pay from other sources, if available; • an increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to maintain insurance coverage in the future on acceptable terms, or at all; • damage to our reputation and the reputation of our products, resulting in lower sales; • regulatory investigations that could require costly recalls or product modifications; • litigation costs; and • the diversion of management’s attention from managing our business. Any one or more of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents If we experience product recalls, we may incur significant and unexpected costs and our business reputation could be adversely affected. We may be exposed to product recalls and adverse public relations if our products are alleged to cause illness or injury, or if we are alleged to have violated governmental regulations. A product recall could result in substantial and unexpected expenditures that could exceed our product recall insurance coverage limits and harm to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, a product recall may require significant management time and attention and may adversely impact on the value of our brands. Product recalls may lead to greater scrutiny by federal or state regulatory agencies and increased litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Product exchanges, returns and warranty claims may adversely affect our business. If we are unable to maintain an acceptable degree of quality control of our products we will incur costs associated with the exchange and return of our products as well as servicing our customers for warranty claims. Any of the foregoing on a significant scale may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Adverse economic conditions may adversely affect the demand for our products. Electronic cigarettes are new to market and may be regarded by users as a novelty item and expendable as such demand for our products may be extra sensitive to economic conditions. When economic conditions are prosperous, discretionary spending typically increases; conversely, when economic conditions are unfavorable, discretionary spending often declines. Any significant decline in economic conditions that affects consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Generating foreign sales will result in additional costs and expenses and may expose us to a variety of risks. In the first quarter of 2012, we began selling our electronic cigarettes in the country of Canada through a Canadian distributor. Generating sales of our products in Canada as well as other foreign jurisdictions will require us to incur additional costs and expenses. Furthermore, our entry into foreign jurisdictions may expose us to various risks, which differ in each jurisdiction, and any of such risks may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such risks include the degree of competition, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, difficulty and costs relating to compliance with different commercial, legal, regulatory and tax regimes and political and economic instability. Our success is dependent upon our marketing efforts. We intend to undertake extensive marketing activities to promote brand awareness and our portfolio of products. If we are unable to generate significant market awareness for our products and our brands at the consumer level or unable to capitalize on significant marketing, advertising or promotional campaigns we undertake, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely, significantly, on the efforts of third party agents to generate sales of our products. We rely, significantly, on the efforts of independent distributors to purchase and distribute our products to wholesalers and retailers. No single distributor currently accounts for a material percentage of our sales and we believe that should any of these relationships terminate we would be able to find suitable replacements and do so on a timely basis. However, any loss of distributors or our ability to timely replace any given distributor could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents We rely, in part, on the efforts of independent salespersons who sell our products to distributors and major retailers and Internet sales affiliates to generate sales of products. No single independent salesperson or Internet affiliate currently accounts for a material percentage of our sales and we believe that should any of these relationships terminate we would be able to find suitable replacements and do so on a timely basis. However, any loss of independent sales persons or Internet sales affiliates or our ability to timely replace any one of them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to establish sustainable relationships with large retailers or national chains. We believe the best way to develop brand and product recognition and increase sales volume is to establish relationships with large retailers and national chains. We currently have established relationships with five large retailers and national chains and in connection therewith we have agreed to pay such retailers and chains fees, known as “slotting fees”, to carry and offer our products for sale based on the number of stores our products will be carried in. These existing relationships are “at-will” and one of them is also “pay on scan” meaning that either party may terminate the relationship for any reason or no reason at all and, as to the “pay on scan” relationship, we only receive payment from the retailer after our product has been scanned for final sale by the retailer to its customer. We may not be able to sustain these relationships or establish other relationships with large retailers or national chains or, even if we do so, sustain such other relationships. Our inability to develop and sustain relationships with large retailers and national chains will impede our ability to develop brand and product recognition and increase sales volume and, ultimately, require us to pursue and rely on local and more fragmented sales channels, which will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to adapt to trends in our industry. We may not be able to adapt as the electronic cigarette industry and customer demand evolves, whether attributable to regulatory constraints or requirements, a lack of financial resources or our failure to respond in a timely and/or effective manner to new technologies, customer preferences, changing market conditions or new developments in our industry. Any of the failures to adapt for the reasons cited herein or otherwise could make our products obsolete and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on third party manufacturers for our products. We depend on third party manufacturers for our electronic cigarettes, vaporizers and accessories. Our customers associate certain characteristics of our products including the weight, feel, draw, unique flavor, packaging and other attributes of our products to the brands we market, distribute and sell. Any interruption in supply and/or consistency of our products may adversely impact our ability to deliver our products to our wholesalers, distributors and customers and otherwise harm our relationships and reputation with customers, and have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we believe that several alternative sources for the components, chemical constituents and manufacturing services necessary for the production of our products are available, any failure to obtain any of the foregoing would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on Chinese manufacturers to produce our products. Our manufacturers are based in China. Certain Chinese factories and the products they export have recently been the source of safety concerns and recalls, which is generally attributed to lax regulatory, quality control and safety standards. Should Chinese factories continue to draw public criticism for exporting unsafe products, whether those products relate to our products or not we may be adversely affected by the stigma associated with Chinese production, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents We may be unable to promote and maintain our brands. We believe that establishing and maintaining the brand identities of our products is a critical aspect of attracting and expanding a large customer base. Promotion and enhancement of our brands will depend largely on our success in continuing to provide high quality products. If our customers and end users do not perceive our products to be of high quality, or if we introduce new products or enter into new business ventures that are not favorably received by our customers and end users, we will risk diluting our brand identities and decreasing their attractiveness to existing and potential customers. Moreover, in order to attract and retain customers and to promote and maintain our brand equity in response to competitive pressures, we may have to increase substantially our financial commitment to creating and maintaining a distinct brand loyalty among our customers. If we incur significant expenses in an attempt to promote and maintain our brands, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We expect that new products and/or brands we develop will expose us to risks that may be difficult to identify until such products and/or brands are commercially available. We are currently developing, and in the future will continue to develop, new products and brands, the risks of which will be difficult to ascertain until these products and/or brands are commercially available. For example, we are developing new formulations, packaging and distribution channels. Any negative events or results that may arise as we develop new products or brands may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to manage our anticipated future growth, our business and results of operations could suffer materially. Our business has grown rapidly during our limited operating history. Our future operating results depend to a large extent on our ability to successfully manage our anticipated growth. To manage our anticipated growth, we believe we must effectively, among other things: • hire, train, and manage additional employees; • expand our marketing and distribution capabilities; • increase our product development activities; • add additional qualified finance and accounting personnel; and • implement and improve our administrative, financial and operational systems, procedures and controls. We are increasing our investment in marketing and distribution channels and other functions to grow our business. We are likely to incur the costs associated with these increased investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits and the return on these investments, if any, may be lower, may develop more slowly than we expect or may not materialize. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities or develop new products, and we may fail to satisfy product requirements, maintain product quality, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face competition from foreign importers who do not comply with government regulation. We face competition from foreign sellers of electronic cigarettes that may illegally ship their products into the United States for direct delivery to customers. These market participants will not have the added cost and expense of complying with U.S. regulations and taxes and as a result will be able to offer 24 Table of Contents their product at a more competitive price than us and potentially capture market share. Moreover, should we be unable to sell certain of our products during any regulatory approval process we have no assurances that we will be able to recapture those customers that we lost to our foreign domiciled competitors during any “blackout” periods, during which we are not permitted to sell our products. This competitive disadvantage may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and our financial condition. Internet security poses a risk to our e-commerce sales. At present we generate a portion of our sales through e-commerce sales on our websites. We manage our websites and e-commerce platform internally and as a result any compromise of our security or misappropriation of proprietary information could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure Internet transmission of confidential information, such as credit and other proprietary information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect client transaction data. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause material interruptions in our operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to minimize problems caused by security breaches. To the extent that our activities or the activities of others involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information, security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss and/or litigation. Our security measures may not prevent security breaches. Our failure to prevent these security breaches may result in consumer distrust and may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by currency exchange rates and currency devaluations. Our functional currency is the U.S. dollar; substantially all of our purchases and sales are currently generated in U.S. dollars. However, our manufacturers and suppliers are located in China. The Chinese currency, the renminbi, has appreciated significantly against the U.S. dollar in recent years. Fluctuations in exchange rates between our respective currencies could result in higher production and supply costs to us which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations if we are not willing or able to pass those costs on to our customers. If we fail to satisfy our registration obligations under the registration rights agreement for the shares of our common stock issued in the Private Placement, we would be required to make certain cash payments to certain of the holders of such shares. Under the registration rights agreements for the Private Placement, we filed the Form S-1 Registration Statement with SEC to register for resale the shares of common stock purchased by the investors (other than our participating officers and directors). The Form S-1 Registration Statement was declared effective by the SEC on January 27, 2014. If the Form S-1 Registration Statement is not effective for resales for more than 20 consecutive days or more than 45 days in any 12 month period during the registration period (i.e., the earlier of the date on which the shares have been sold or are eligible for sale under SEC Rule 144 without restriction), we are required to pay the investors (other than our participating officers and directors) liquidated damages in cash equal to 1.5% of the aggregate purchase price paid by the investors (other than our participating officers and directors) for the shares for every 30 days or portion thereof until the default is cured. Such cash payments, which could be as much as $144,728 for every 30 days, could significantly reduce our working capital and liquidity and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents Risks Related to Government Regulation Changes in laws, regulations and other requirements could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition to the anticipated regulation of our business by the FDA, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected by new or future legal requirements imposed by legislative or regulatory initiatives, including, but not limited to, those relating to health care, public health and welfare and environmental matters. For example, in recent years, states and many local and municipal governments and agencies, as well as private businesses, have adopted legislation, regulations or policies which prohibit, restrict, or discourage smoking; smoking in public buildings and facilities, stores, restaurants and bars; and smoking on airline flights and in the workplace. Furthermore, some states prohibit and others are considering prohibiting the sales of electronic cigarettes to minors. Other similar laws and regulations are currently under consideration and may be enacted by state and local governments in the future. At present, it is not clear if electronic cigarettes, which omit no smoke or noxious odors, are subject to such restrictions. If electronic cigarettes are subject to restrictions on smoking in public and other places, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. New legislation or regulations may result in increased costs directly for our compliance or indirectly to the extent such requirements increase the prices of goods and services because of increased costs or reduced availability. We cannot predict whether such legislative or regulatory initiatives will result in significant changes to existing laws and regulations and/or whether any changes in such laws or regulations will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Restrictions on the public use of electronic cigarettes may reduce the attractiveness and demand for our electronic cigarettes. Certain states, cities, businesses, providers of transportation and public venues in the U.S. have already banned the use of electronic cigarettes, while others are considering banning the use of electronic cigarettes. If the use of electronic cigarettes is banned anywhere the use of traditional tobacco burning cigarettes is banned, electronic cigarettes may lose their appeal as an alternative to traditional tobacco burning cigarettes, which may reduce the demand for our products and, thus, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Limitation by states on sales of electronic cigarettes may have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell our products. On February 15, 2010, in response to a civil investigative demand from the Office of the Attorney General of the State of Maine, we voluntarily executed an assurance of discontinuance with the State of Maine, which prohibits us from selling electronic cigarettes in the State of Maine until such time as we obtain a retail tobacco license in the state. While suspending sales to residents of Maine is not material to our operations, other electronic cigarette companies have entered into similar agreements with other states, such as the State of Oregon. If one or more states from which we generate or anticipate generating significant sales bring actions to prevent us from selling our products unless we obtain certain licenses, approvals or permits and if we are not able to obtain the necessary licenses, approvals or permits for financial reasons or otherwise and/or any such license, approval or permit is determined to be overly burdensome to us then we may be required to cease sales and distribution of our products to those states, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The FDA has issued an import alert which has limited our ability to import certain of our products. As a result of FDA import alert 66-41 (which allows the detention of unapproved drugs promoted in the U.S.), U.S. Customs has from time to time temporarily and in some instances indefinitely detained products sent to us by our Chinese suppliers. If the FDA modifies the import alert from its current form which allows U.S. Customs discretion to release our products to us, to a mandatory and definitive hold we will no longer be able to ensure a supply of saleable product, which will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We believe this FDA import alert will become less relevant to us as and when the FDA regulates electronic cigarettes under the Tobacco Control Act. 26 Table of Contents The application of the Prevent All Cigarette Trafficking Act and/or the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act to electronic cigarettes would have a material adverse affect on our business. At present, neither the Prevent All Cigarette Trafficking Act (which prohibits the use of the U.S. Postal Service to mail most tobacco products and which amends the Jenkins Act, which would require individuals and businesses that make interstate sales of cigarettes or smokeless tobacco to comply with state tax laws) nor the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act (which governs how cigarettes can be advertised and marketed) apply to electronic cigarettes. The application of either or both of these federal laws to electronic cigarettes could result in additional expenses, could prohibit us from selling products through the internet and require us to change our advertising and labeling and method of marketing our products, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may face the same governmental actions aimed at conventional cigarettes and other tobacco products. Tobacco industry expects significant regulatory developments to take place over the next few years, driven principally by the World Health Organization’s Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (“FCTC”). The FCTC is the first international public health treaty on tobacco, and its objective is to establish a global agenda for tobacco regulation with the purpose of reducing initiation of tobacco use and encouraging cessation. Regulatory initiatives that have been proposed, introduced or enacted include: • the levying of substantial and increasing tax and duty charges; • restrictions or bans on advertising, marketing and sponsorship; • the display of larger health warnings, graphic health warnings and other labeling requirements; • restrictions on packaging design, including the use of colors and generic packaging; • restrictions or bans on the display of tobacco product packaging at the point of sale, and restrictions or bans on cigarette vending machines; • requirements regarding testing, disclosure and performance standards for tar, nicotine, carbon monoxide and other smoke constituents levels; • requirements regarding testing, disclosure and use of tobacco product ingredients; • increased restrictions on smoking in public and work places and, in some instances, in private places and outdoors; • elimination of duty free allowances for travelers; and • encouraging litigation against tobacco companies. If electronic cigarettes are subject to one or more significant regulatory initiates enacted under the FCTC, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock has historically been thinly traded and you may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all if you desire to liquidate your shares. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. Under the Purchase Agreement governing the Private Placement, we are required to list our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market not later than July 29, 2014. No assurance can be given that will be able to do so by then or at all. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, where it has historically been sporadically or “thinly-traded”, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common stock at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is 27 Table of Contents attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company which has incurred significant operating losses and is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. Even if our common stock is listed for trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market, we cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. Our common stock is currently deemed a “penny stock,” which makes it more difficult for our investors to sell their shares. Our common stock is subject to the “penny stock” rules adopted under Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act. The penny stock rules generally apply to companies whose common stock is not listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market or other national securities exchange and trades at less than $4.00 per share, other than companies that have had average revenue of at least $6,000,000 for the last three years or that have tangible net worth (i.e., total assets less intangible assets and liabilities) of at least $5,000,000 ($2,000,000 if the company has been operating for three or more years). These rules require, among other things, that brokers who trade penny stock to persons other than “established customers” complete certain documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with certain information concerning trading in the security, including a risk disclosure document and quote information under certain circumstances. Many brokers have decided not to trade penny stocks because of the requirements of the penny stock rules and, as a result, the number of broker-dealers willing to act as market makers in such securities is limited. If we remain subject to the penny stock rules for any significant period, it could have an adverse effect on the market, if any, for our common stock. If our common stock is subject to the penny stock rules, investors will find it more difficult to dispose of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been volatile, and fluctuates widely in price in response to various factors, which are beyond our control. The price of our common stock is not necessarily indicative of our operating performance or long-term business prospects. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Factors such as the following could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially: • the introduction of new products by our competitors; • government regulation of our industry; • our quarterly operating and financial results; • conditions in the electronic cigarette and tobacco industries; • developments concerning proprietary rights; or • litigation or public concern about the safety of our products. The stock market in general experiences from time to time extreme price and volume fluctuations. Periodic and/or continuous market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock. Price volatility may be worse if the trading volume of our common stock is low. 28 Table of Contents Volatility in our common stock price may subject us to securities litigation. The market for our common stock is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. In the past, plaintiffs have often initiated securities class action litigation against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may, in the future, be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and liabilities to us and could divert our management’s attention and resources from managing our operations and business. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. As of February 25, 2014, we had 16,614,528 shares of our common stock outstanding, and warrants and options that are exercisable into 1,191,791 shares of our common stock. Approximately 9,466,000 of the 16,614,528 outstanding shares are eligible for resale without restriction in the public market. If any significant number of the 9,466,000 shares are sold, such sales could have a depressive effect on the market price of our stock. The remaining shares are eligible, and some of the shares underlying the warrants and options upon issuance will be eligible, to be offered from time to time in the public market pursuant to Rule 144 of the Securities Act, and any such sale of these shares may have a depressive effect as well. We are unable to predict the effect, if any, that the sale of shares, or the availability of shares for future sale, will have on the market price of the shares prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could depress prevailing market prices for the shares. Such sales may also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price, which we deem appropriate. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, we could become subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities and/or stockholder litigation, which could harm our business and have an adverse effect on our stock price. As a public reporting company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, including periodic reports, disclosures and more complex accounting rules. As directed by Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on a company’s internal control over financial reporting in their Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on current rules, we are required to report under Section 404(a) of Sarbanes-Oxley regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we remediated our previously disclosed material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls as of March 31, 2011 and that persisted during 2011 until remediation. If we determine that we have other material weaknesses, it may be necessary to make further restatements of our consolidated financial statements and investors will not be able to rely on the completeness and accuracy of the financial information contained in our filings with the SEC and this could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities or stockholder litigation. Our board could issue “blank check” preferred stock without stockholder approval with the effect of diluting existing stockholders and impairing their voting rights, and provisions in our charter documents could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation authorize the issuance of up to 1,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. Our board is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue a series of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could dilute the interest of, or impair the voting power of, our common stockholders. The issuance of a series of preferred stock could be used as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. For example, it would be possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to effect a change in control of our company. Our bylaws also allow our board of directors to fix the number of directors. Our stockholders do not have cumulative voting in the election of directors. 29 Table of Contents Any aspect of the foregoing, alone or together, could delay or prevent unsolicited takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. Having no independent directors on our board limits our ability to establish effective independent corporate governance procedures. We do not have any independent directors on our board of directors nor do we maintain a standing audit committee, compensation committee or nominating and governance committee. Accordingly, without independent directors, we cannot establish effective standing board committees to oversee functions such as audit, compensation and corporate governance. In addition, two of our executive officers are also directors, Kevin Frija, who is our Chief Executive Officer, and Jeffrey Holman, who is our President. This structure gives our executive officers significant control over all corporate issues. Unless and until we have a larger board of directors that would include a majority of independent members, there will be limited oversight of our executive officers’ decisions and activities and little ability for you to challenge or reverse those activities and decisions, even if they are not in your best interests. The former stockholders of our operating subsidiary Smoke Anywhere USA, Inc. are our largest stockholders and, as such, they can exert significant influence over us and make decisions that are not in the best interests of all stockholders. Former stockholders of our operating subsidiary Smoke Anywhere USA, Inc., three of whom serve as our Chief Executive Officer, President and director of licensing and business development, respectively, and others of whom serve as members of the board of directors of Smoke Anywhere USA, Inc., beneficially own in excess of 30% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, these stockholders are able to assert significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any change in control. In particular, this concentration of ownership of our outstanding shares of common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, or otherwise discouraging or preventing a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control. This, in turn, could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. It could also prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market prices for their shares of common stock. Moreover, the interests of the owners of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders and, accordingly, could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that we would not otherwise consider. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends for the foreseeable future, and therefore investors should not buy our stock if they wish to receive cash dividends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends or distributions on our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. 