Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We Market a Single Class of Products, Which may be Subject to Certain Government Regulations, Whose Approval We may or may not be Able to Achieve. Electronic cigarettes, which are our sole product offering, are new to the marketplace and may be subject to regulation as a tobacco product and possibly as a drug and drug device if marketed using therapeutic claims. Most E-cigarettes are sold as a means of delivering nicotine to the body. The Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) is the regulatory agency which oversees tobacco products; however at present it is unclear what, if any regulatory process is required to import, market, manufacture and or distribute e-cigarettes. To date the FDA has not established a definitive policy regulating electronic cigarettes. We intend to use reasonable efforts to file for the appropriate approvals to allow us to sell our product in the United States, however we have no indication that at present we will be able to afford to pursue regulatory approval and that if we are able to pursue said approval we have no assurances that the outcome of said approval process will result in our products being approved by the FDA. Moreover, if the FDA establishes a regulatory process that we are unable or unwilling to comply with our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects would be adversely affected. (See section “Government Regulation.”) We Depend On The Efforts Of our Management. Our Management Team Lacks Experience In Managing A Public Company and the Obligations Incident to Being a Public Company Will Place Significant Demands on Our Management. Our officers lack experience in running a public company. Our success is substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers. In particular, our success depends substantially on the continued efforts of our executive officers and our Board of Directors. 10 Table of Contents As a public reporting company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, including periodic reports, disclosures and more complex accounting rules. As directed by Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on a company’s internal control over financial reporting in their Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing our financial statements must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Based on current rules, we are required to report under Section 404(a) of Sarbanes-Oxley regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over our financial reporting as required by Section 404(a), investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Further, commencing with the 2010 fiscal year, our auditors will be required, under Section 404(b) of Sarbanes-Oxley, to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Currently, we do not have key person life insurance on Mr. Frija our sole executive officer and board member and may be unable to obtain such insurance in the near future due to high cost or other reasons. The loss of the services of Mr. Frija or any of our key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, if we are unable to find suitable replacements. The Former Shareholder of Smoke Anywhere USA Are Controlling Stockholders, Our Stockholders May Be Unable To Affect Corporate Activity Without The Support Of These Individuals. The former shareholders of Smoke Anywhere USA, Inc. as a result of our reverse merger collectively own a majority of our outstanding common stock and, therefore, are able to control all matters requiring approval of our stockholders. Accordingly, our other stockholders may not be able to effect corporate action after this offering without the supporting vote of one or more of these individuals. Our Limited Operating History Makes it Difficult to Evaluate Our Future Performance. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and our prospects. The likelihood of our future success must be viewed in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, delays and complications often encountered in the operation of a new business and new industry and product category, where failures of new companies and products are common. We are subject to the risks inherent in the ownership and operation of a development stage company, including regulatory setbacks and delays, fluctuations in expenses, competition and government regulation. If we fail to address these risks and uncertainties our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects would be adversely affected. We Cannot Predict Our Future Capital Needs And We May Not Be Able To Secure Additional Financing. We believe that the cash we have on hand, together with anticipated revenues from operations will be sufficient to meet our presently anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements for existing operations for at least the next twelve months, however our belief is based on our operating plan which in turn is based on assumptions, which may prove to be incorrect. As a result, our financial resources may not be sufficient to satisfy our capital requirements for this period. 11 Table of Contents However, we may require additional working capital to support our operations during any regulatory period, as established by the FDA under the Tobacco Act, wherein we may be precluded from marketing and or selling electronic cigarettes. We expect to raise any required additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, corporate collaborations, governmental research grants may in some cases be available to us. We may also seek to raise additional capital to fund additional product development efforts, even if we have sufficient funds for our planned operations. There can be no assurance that any such required additional funding will be available to us at all or available on terms acceptable to us. Further, we currently have no credit facility or similar financing currently available. And any debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants, which may limit our operating flexibility with respect to certain business matters. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders will be reduced and our stockholders will experience additional dilution in net tangible book value per share. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully market our products, take advantage of future opportunities, repay debt obligations as they become due or respond to competitive pressures, any and all of which would have an adverse effect on our business. Our Product Faces Intense Media Attention and Public Pressure Our product is new to the marketplace and since its introduction certain members of the media, politicians, government regulators and advocate groups, including independent doctors have called for an outright ban of all electronic cigarettes, pending regulatory review and a demonstration of safety. A ban of this type would likely have the effect of terminating our United States’ sales and marketing efforts, of certain products which we may currently market or have plans to market in the future. Such a ban would also likely cause public confusion as to which products are the subject of the ban and which are not and would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and performance. Our Products Contain Nicotine Which is Considered to be a Highly Addictive Substance. Certain of our electronic cigarette and electronic cigarette cartridges contain nicotine, a chemical found in cigarettes and other tobacco products which is considered to be highly addictive. The Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act, empowers the FDA to regulate the amount of nicotine found in tobacco products, but may not require the reduction of nicotine yields of a tobacco product to zero. Any FDA regulation may require us to reformulate, recall and or discontinue certain of the products we may sell from time to time, which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our products and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects. The Market For Electronic Cigarettes Is Uncertain And Is Still Evolving. Electronic cigarettes having recently been introduced to market, are at an early stage of development and are evolving rapidly and are characterized by an increasing number of market entrants. Our future revenues and any future profits are substantially dependent upon the widespread acceptance and use of e-cigarettes. Rapid growth in the use of, and interest in, e-cigarettes is a recent phenomenon, and may not continue on a lasting basis. The demand and market acceptance for these products is subject to a high level of uncertainty. 12 Table of Contents Our Products may not Serve their Intended Purpose. An independent study of certain brands of electronic cigarettes, not including our brands, found that the electronic cigarettes tested, delivered little to no measurable nicotine. We are not aware of the methods or protocols of this study used to test the electronic cigarettes and have not independently verified the study’s results. Nor have we conducted our own empirical studies to determine the delivered nicotine in the vapor drawn from our products. We also do not know if the electronic cigarettes tested were manufactured in the same factories in which are products are manufactured. If our products are found to not serve their intended purpose, including delivering nicotine to their users, we may face a decline in sales of our products, an upsurge of requests for refunds, private civil actions and or state or federal unfair business practices actions; any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects. Our Business may be Affected if we are Taxed Like Other Tobacco Products or if we are Required to Collect and Remit Sales Tax on Certain of our Internet Sales Presently our products are not taxed like cigarettes or other tobacco products, all of which have faced significant increases in the amount of taxes collected on the sale of their products. Should state and federal governments and or taxing authorities impose taxes similar to those levied against cigarettes and tobacco products on our products, it may have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products. Moreover we may be unable to establish the systems and processes needed to track and submit the taxes we collect through internet sales, which would limit our ability to market our products through our websites which would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operation and financial condition. States such as New York, Hawaii, Rhode Island and North Carolina have begun collecting taxes on Internet sales where companies have used independent contractors in those states to solicit sales from residents of that state. The requirement to collect track and remit taxes based on independent affiliate sales may require us to increase our prices, which may effect demand for our products or conversely reduce our net profit margin; either of which would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition and operating results. Downturns In The Economy May Affect the Demand for our Products and our Financial Performance Electronic cigarettes are new to market and may be regarded by users as a novelty item and expendable as such demand for our products may be extra sensitive to economic conditions. When economic conditions are prosperous, discretionary spending increases; conversely, when economic conditions are unfavorable, discretionary spending declines. Any significant decline in general corporate conditions or the economy that affect consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and consequently, upon an investment in the Common Stock of our Company. 13 Table of Contents We may Become Dependent on Foreign Sales to Maintain Our Business. If the FDA or other state or Federal government agencies restrict or prohibit the sale electronic cigarettes in the United States, in part or in whole, our ability to maintain our business will become dependent on our ability to successfully commercialize our product and brands in foreign jurisdictions where our product can be sold. Our inability to establish distribution in foreign jurisdictions, specifically those that allow for the sale of e-cigarettes will deprive us of the operating revenue we require to fund any domestic regulatory approval effort and continue to maintain our business operations. Foreign Commercialization Will Result in Additional Costs and Expenses. Commercializing our product in foreign countries will likely require us to expend additional resources which may reduce our profit margins; additional expenses including but not limited to, local language advertising and marketing materials, packaging, translating product documentation, additionally we may be required to retain foreign counsel to ensure compliance with foreign laws, regulations and taxing regimes, in addition to drafting and enforcing contracts with foreign distributors. If we fail to commercialize our products in foreign jurisdictions we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage not only in those foreign jurisdictions but in each market in which we have a presence. If we are unable to be competitive we risk losing market share, a decrease in operating revenues all of which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to operate our business. Our Success is Dependent Upon Our Marketing Efforts. We have limited marketing experience in marketing electronic cigarettes and limited financial, personnel and other resources to undertake extensive marketing activities. If we are unable to generate significant market awareness for our products and our brands our operations may not generate sufficient revenues for us to execute our business plan, generate revenues and achieve profitable operations. We Rely on the Efforts of Our Outside Independent Sales Force to Generate Sales. We rely, in part, on the efforts of our independent sales distributors to purchase and distribute our product to wholesalers and or retailers to generate revenues. No single distributor currently accounts for a material percentage of our revenues and we believe that should any of these relationships terminate we would be able to find suitable replacements, however any change in distributors or our ability to timely replace any given distributor would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We rely, in part, on the efforts of outside independent salespersons and Internet sales affiliates to generate sales for our company. No single independent salesperson of Internet affiliate currently accounts for a material percentage of our revenues and we believe that should any of these relationships terminate we would be able to find suitable replacements, however any loss of these independent sales persons or our Internet sales affiliates could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We May Not Be Able to Adapt to Trends In our Industry. We may not be able to adapt as the e-cigarette industry and customer demand evolves; whether attributable to regulatory constraints, mis-management or a lack of financial resources or, our failure to respond in a timely manner; to new technologies, customer preferences, changing market conditions or new developments in our industry. Any of the failures to adapt or inabilities described herein or otherwise would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Existing or Pending Patents Could Prevent Us From Operating Our Business In Its Present Form. Ruyan, a Chinese company, has made certain public claims as to their ownership of a Chinese patent relating to an “Atomizing Electronic Cigarette.” We currently purchase our products from Chinese manufacturers other than Ruyan. Should Ruyan’s patent be valid and enforceable and cover the devices we purchase from our suppliers, we may be forced to pay more for our products or we may be cutoff from our supply. We may also face a potential action by Ruyan, which we may be forced to defend and which we may ultimately lose. Should any of these events occur, they are likely to have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business as a going concern. R. J. Reynolds one of the largest tobacco companies in the world has filed a patent application for a “Tobacco-Containing Smoking Article.” If R.J. Reynolds patent is awarded and our products are found to be infringing on their patent, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Neither Ruyan or R.J. Reynolds has contacted us regarding any possible infringement of their intellectual property rights nor has any party commenced or threatened to commence any legal action against us. If we are required to participate in litigation we may not have the resources to fund the required litigation costs, which may adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In the event that either Ruyan or R. J. Reynolds’ patents are enforceable against us, we may be required to obtain a license to the covered intellectual property or substantially modify or redesign our existing product line in order to continue operations. We can offer no assurance that a license would be available on acceptable terms or at all, or that we will be able to revise our business model economically, efficiently or at all. We Depend On Third Party Suppliers and Manufacturers For Our Electronic Cigarette Products. We do not own or control our supply chain our suppliers or our suppliers’ suppliers, therefore we are unable to control or ensure our supply of products or the consistency of those products. We depend on third-party suppliers and manufacturers for our electronic cigarettes, which includes, but is not limited to, our electrical components, technology, flavorings and essences. Our customers associate certain characteristics of our products including the weight, feel, draw, flavor, packaging and other unique attributes of our products to the brands we market, distribute and sell. Any interruption in supply and or consistency of our products may harm our relationships and goodwill with customers, and have a materially adverse affect on our cash flow and our operations. 15 Table of Contents Although we believe that several alternative sources for our products are available, any failure to obtain the components, chemicals constituents and manufacturing services necessary for the production of our products would have a material adverse effect on our business and prevent us from timely execution of our business plan and may result in additional expenditures of time and money in seeking viable new sources of supply and manufacturer alternatives. Moreover our inability to replicate those certain characteristics of our products which our customers associate and enjoy, which are unique to our brands, may cause a loss of customer loyalty, patronage and goodwill and which may have a material adverse effect on our business. We Use Chinese Manufacturers for the Production of Our Products. Our suppliers and product manufacturers are based in China. Certain Chinese factories and the products they export have recently been the source of safety concerns and recalls, which is generally attributed to lax regulatory, quality control and safety standards. Should Chinese factories continue to draw public criticism for exporting unsafe products, whether those products relate to us or not we may be adversely and materially affected by the stigma associated with Chinese production, which would effect our business operation, our revenues and our financial projections and prospects. Moreover, products manufactured by our Chinese suppliers that are not considered safe and or those products that do not comply with U.S. safety and health standards may cause significant harm and or death to persons who use the product and subject us to liability and potential legal claims and cause injury to our reputation, goodwill and operating results. Product Exchanges, Returns, Warranty Claims, Defect and Recalls May Adversely Affect Our Business Any and all products are subject to customer service claims, malfunctions and defects, which may subject us to requests for product exchanges, returns, warranty claims and recalls. If we are unable to maintain an acceptable degree of quality control of our products we will incur costs of replacing and or recalling our products and servicing our customers. Any product returns, exchanges, and or recalls we may make will have a material adverse effect on our business, our operations and our profitability and will likely result in the loss of customers and goodwill. Moreover products that do not meet our quality control standards and or those products that do not comply with U.S. safety and health standards or that may be defective may reduce the effectiveness, enjoyment and or cause harm to property, person and or death to persons who use the product. Any such instance will likely result in claims against us and potentially subject us to liability and legal claims which may cause injury to our reputation, goodwill and operating results. We May Be Unable To Promote And Maintain Our Brands. We believe that establishing and maintaining the brand identities of our products is a critical aspect of attracting and expanding a large client base. Promotion and enhancement of our brands will depend largely on our success in continuing to provide high quality products. If our customers and end users do not perceive our products to be of high quality, or if we introduce new products or enter into new business ventures that are not favorably received by our customers and end users, we will risk diluting our brand identities and decreasing their attractiveness to existing and potential customers. 16 Table of Contents Moreover, in order to attract and retain customers and to promote and maintain our brand equity in response to competitive pressures, we may have to increase substantially our financial commitment to creating and maintaining a distinct brand loyalty among our customers. If we incur significant expenses in an attempt to promote and maintain our brands, our profitability will likely be impaired. We Depend on Our Intellectual Property Rights to Distinguish our Brands and Products. Our current and future business activities, products and brands may infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, and third parties may assert infringement claims against us. Any such claims and resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages and could result in the invalidation of our proprietary rights. Even if not meritorious, such claims could be time-consuming, expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of our management’s time and attention. In addition, this diversion of managerial resources could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We Expect that New Products and/or Brands We Develop will Expose Us to Risks That May be Difficult to Identify Until Such Products and/or Brands are Launched. We are currently developing, and in the future will continue to develop, new products and brands, the risks of which will be difficult to ascertain until these products and or brands are commercially launched. For example, we are developing new formulations, packaging and distribution channels. Any negative events or results that may arise as we develop new products or brands may adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Ability to Implement our Strategy of Attracting and Retaining Employees may be Impaired by the Uncertainty in our Business due to the FDA’s public Statements. Recent FDA statements with respect to electronic cigarette products, the uncertainty of present and future regulations is likely to injure our ability to compete for talented employees and managers, who may be drawn to more established companies and as a result, we may be unable to attract talented employees, managers, consultants and contractors to help us grow our business. We may Encounter Difficulties in Managing Our Growth, Which Would Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. If we are successful in growing our business we will need to significantly expand our operations, which could put significant strain on our management and our operational and financial resources. To manage future growth, we will need to hire, train, and manage additional employees. Concurrent with expanding our operational and marketing capabilities, we will also need to increase our product development activities. We may not be able to support, financially or otherwise, future growth, or hire, train, motivate, and manage the required personnel. Our failure to manage growth effectively could limit our ability to achieve our goals. 17 Table of Contents Our success in managing our growth will depend in part on the ability of our executive officers to continue to implement and improve our operational, management, information and financial control systems and to expand, train and manage our employee base, and particularly to attract, expand, train, manage and retain a sales force to market our products on acceptable terms. Our inability to manage growth effectively could cause our operating costs to grow at a faster pace than we currently anticipate, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We Face a Risk of Product Liability Claims and may not be Able to Obtain Adequate Insurance. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that may arise from the sale and use of our products. Liability claims may be expensive to defend and result in large judgments against us. We currently carry liability insurance, however there is no assurance that it will continue to be available to us at an affordable price if at all. Our insurance may not reimburse us, or the coverage may not be sufficient to cover claims made against us. We cannot predict any or all of the possible harms or side effects that may result from the use of our current products or any future products and, therefore, the amount of insurance coverage we currently hold may not be adequate to cover all liabilities we might incur. If we are sued for any injury allegedly caused by our products, our liability could exceed our ability to pay the liability. Whether or not we are ultimately successful in any adverse litigation, such litigation could consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and stock price. We do not presently carry product recall insurance and there is no assurance that it would be available to us at a reasonable cost or at all. In the event we were required to recall certain products due to defects or safety concerns, the costs associated with recalling those products, might be greater than we can afford and as a result could have a material adverse effect on our abilities to maintain operations. We Face Substantial And Increasing Competition. We face intense competition from direct and indirect competitors, including “big pharma,” “big tobacco” and other known and established or yet to be formed electronic cigarette companies, each of whom pose a competitive threat to our current business and future prospects. We expect competition to intensify in the future. Certain of these companies are either currently competing with us or are focusing significant resources on providing products that will compete with our electronic cigarette product offerings in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against any of our competitors, some of whom have far greater resources, capital, experience, market penetration, sales and distribution channels than us. We have no assurances that we will be able to compete with these competitors and that we will be successful in operating our business and ever achieving profitability. Our inability to successfully compete against these or any of our competitors will have a material adverse effect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents We Face Competition from Foreign Importers Who Do Not Comply With Government Regulation We face competition from foreign sellers of electronic cigarettes who may illegally ship their products in to the United States for direct delivery to customers. These market participants will not have the added cost and expense of complying with U.S. regulations and taxes and as a result will be able to offer their product at a more competitive price than us and potentially capture market share. Moreover, should we be unable to sell certain of our products during any regulatory approval process we have no assurances that we will be able to recapture those customers that we lost to our foreign domiciled competitors during any “blackout” periods, wherein we were not permitted to sell our products. This competitive disadvantage may have a material adverse impact on our ability to compete with competitors, which may result in a loss of revenue and market share and hamper our ability to generate revenue and continue to operate as a going concern. Internet Security Poses a Risk To Our E-Commerce Sales. At present we generate a portion of our revenues through the sale of our products through our websites. We manage our websites and e-commerce platform internally and as a result any compromise of our security or misappropriation of proprietary information could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from other companies to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure Internet transmission of confidential information, such as credit and other proprietary information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect client transaction data. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause material interruptions in our operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to minimize problems caused by security breaches. To the extent that our activities or the activities of others involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information, security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. For example the storage and loss of credit card numbers, that may reside on our servers and be used directly by us or by our service suppliers (ex. merchant account processors). Our security measures may not prevent security breaches. Our failure to prevent these security breaches may result in consumer distrust and may result in a loss of sales and resultantly a loss of revenues. Our Earnings Could be Adversely Affected by Currency Exchange Rates and Currency Devaluations. The bulk of our revenues are currently generated in U.S. dollars, however our manufacturers and suppliers are located in China. Fluctuations in exchange rates between our respective currencies could result in higher production and supply costs to us which would have an adverse effect on our profit margins and our business operation if we re not willing or able to pass those costs on to our customers or effectively hedge our currency exposure. Moreover, if we attempt to hedge our risk in the currency markets and are unsuccessful and or if our competitors are more successful arbitraging the currency risk we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to other market participants which would have a material adverse effect on our business operations. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to Government Regulation Restrictions On the Use of Our Products may Reduce the Attractiveness and Demand for Our Electronic Cigarettes. Our product since it emits no smoke and no smell can be used in places where the use of traditional tobacco burning cigarettes is prohibited. Should city, state or federal regulators, municipalities, local governments and private industry likewise restrict the use of e-cigarettes from use in those same places where cigarettes can not be smoked, our customers may reduce or otherwise cease using our products entirely, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and performance. Regulation of Tobacco Products by State and Local Government. State and local governments currently legislate and regulate tobacco products, including what is considered a tobacco product, how tobacco taxes are calculated and collected, to whom tobacco products can be sold and by whom, in addition to where tobacco products, specifically cigarettes may be smoked and where they may not. Certain municipalities have enacted local ordinances which preclude the use of e-cigarettes where traditional tobacco burning cigarettes can not be used and certain states have proposed legislation that would categorize electronic cigarettes as tobacco products, equivalent to their tobacco burning counterparts. If these bills become laws, electronic cigarettes may lose their appeal as an alternative to cigarettes; which may have the effect of reducing the demand for our products and as a result have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. State Actions Against Us May have a Material Effect on our Ability to Sell Our Products. On February 15, 2010, in response to a civil investigative demand from the Office of the Attorney General of the State of Maine, we voluntarily executed a assurance of discontinuance, with the state of Maine, which restricts our ability to sell electronic cigarettes in the state of Maine until such time as we obtain a retail tobacco license in the state. While suspending sales to residents of Maine is not material to our operations, other electronic cigarette companies have entered into similar agreements with other states, such as the state of Oregon. If numerous states and or more populous states or states in which we generate significant revenues bring actions to restrict sales of our products, by us or our re-sale customers, and if we are unable to satisfactorily responded to their concerns and or acquire the necessary licenses, permissions or permits and or if those licenses permissions or permits are overly burdensome or costly to obtain and or if those licenses, permissions or permits are not available to us; we may be required to cease sales and distribution of our products to those states, which would have a material adverse effect on our business operations. 20 Table of Contents FDA Authority Under the Food Drug and Cosmetics Act; Prohibition Against Therapeutic Claims. Electronic cigarettes, if marketed or sold in connection with therapeutic claims, (ie. smoking cessation claims, claims to cure treat or mitigate a disease) would be subject to the FDA’s regulatory authority under the Food Drug and Cosmetics Act. We do not make therapeutic claims in connection with our marketing and or sales of our electronic cigarettes. Any violation of law with respect to the company’s marketing materials, and or labeling could expose the Company to liability including but not limited to fines, sanctions, administrative actions, detention and seizure of product, penalties, civil actions and or criminal prosecution each of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. The Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act Grants the FDA Authority to Regulate Tobacco Products and How they are Marketed and Sold. On June 22, 2009 the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (the “Act”) was signed into law. The effect of this legislation on our business is presently unknown and may place limits on our ability to market and or distribute our products and or bring new products to market. The legislation may impose costly and resource intensive processes to gain regulatory approval to market our products and there is no certainty that we will have the capital, resources necessary to comply with the regulation or that we would be ultimately successful in receiving the necessary approvals to continue marketing our product under the provisions of the Act. Specifically the Act grants the FDA the authority to regulate tobacco products including but not limited to how they are marketed, the level of nicotine and the method for introducing new tobacco products to market. The legislation eliminates all flavoring other than menthol for cigarettes, yet under the legislation the FDA is not empowered to ban certain tobacco products or require that the nicotine in tobacco products be reduced to zero. While the legislation does not mention electronic cigarettes, the Act and a U.S. Federal District Appellate court have suggested that the FDA may regulate electronic cigarettes as tobacco products under the Act. Until the FDA establishes the regulatory processes to regulate electronic cigarettes under the Act, we do not know how and to what degree we will be regulated. Moreover, if the FDA establishes a regulatory process that we are unable or unwilling to comply with our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects would be adversely and materially affected. See section “Government Regulation.” The FDA has Issued an Import Alert Which has Limited Our Ability to Import Certain of Our Products As a result of FDA import alert 66-41 US Customs has from time to time temporarily and in some instances indefinitely detained products sent to us by our Chinese suppliers. If the FDA and or customs modifies the import alert from its current form which allows US customs’ discretion to release our products to us, to a mandatory and definitive hold we will no longer be able to ensure a supply of product for US sales, which will have material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues, as domestic sales currently account for a significant portion of our revenue. Actions by the FDA Adverse to Our Company and Our Products may Restrict our Ability to do Business Domestically and Internationally. When the United States Food and Drug Administration, the largest and most pervasive health regulator in the world sought to categorize and regulate electronic cigarettes as a drug and medical device, it had a chilling effect on health regulators of foreign governments who similarly sought to regulate e-cigarettes in the same manner. Although, the FDA can no longer regulate e-cigarettes as a drug device, absent therapeutic claims, other foreign health regulators have not modified their policies toward e-cigarettes. In the event that other foreign government agencies do not alter their position on electronic cigarettes to conform with US policies, We would be precluded from selling efforts in those respective countries, which would have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects, which would limit our sales and revenue potentials. 21 Table of Contents Federal Cigarette and Tobacco Laws, if Applied to Electronic Cigarettes Would Materially Affect Our Business While none of the following cigarette laws currently apply to electronic cigarettes, any such amendment that would require compliance by us with the: The Prevent All Cigarette Trafficking Act (the PACT Act) which prohibits the use of the Postal Service to mail most tobacco products and which amends the Jenkins Act, which would require individuals and businesses that make interstate sales of cigarettes or smokeless tobacco to comply with state tax laws and the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act, which governs how cigarettes can be advertised and marketed, would have a material effect on how we operate our business, how we market our products, and derive revenue. Each of these laws, if applied to electronic cigarettes would significantly increase our cost of compliance, our profit margins, the attractiveness to consumers of or products and all of which would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition and operating results. Changes in Governmental Regulation May Affect the Countries in Which we Sell Our products Foreign jurisdiction have varying policies and laws with respect to the use of electronic cigarettese that vaporize nicotine, countries such as the United Kingdom do not restrict its use while other countries such as Thailand have instituted a total ban. If countries such as the United Kingdom reverse their stance or should other countries who have a neutral stance move towards prohibition, it will have a direct impact on our ability to market our products and will have a material adverse effect on our business. We may Face the Same Governmental Actions Aimed at Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products. Tobacco industry expects significant regulatory developments to take place over the next few years, driven principally by the World Health Organization’s Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (“FCTC”). The FCTC is the first international public health treaty on tobacco, and its objective is to establish a global agenda for tobacco regulation with the purpose of reducing initiation of tobacco use and encouraging cessation. Regulatory initiatives that have been proposed, introduced or enacted include: • the levying of substantial and increasing tax and duty charges; • restrictions or bans on advertising, marketing and sponsorship; • the display of larger health warnings, graphic health warnings and other labeling requirements; • restrictions on packaging design, including the use of colors and generic packaging; • restrictions or bans on the display of tobacco product packaging at the point of sale, and restrictions or bans on cigarette vending machines; 22 Table of Contents • requirements regarding testing, disclosure and performance standards for tar, nicotine, carbon monoxide and other smoke constituents levels; • requirements regarding testing, disclosure and use of tobacco product ingredients; • increased restrictions on smoking in public and work places and, in some instances, in private places and outdoors; • elimination of duty free allowances for travelers; and • encouraging litigation against tobacco companies. Operating income could be significantly affected by any significant decrease in demand for our products, any significant increase in the cost of complying with new regulatory requirements. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Stock Our Board of Directors is Authorized to Issue Additional Shares of Our Stock Which Would Dilute Existing Shareholders. We are currently authorized to authorize up to 250,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 60,135,344 shares are currently issued and outstanding. Additional shares of our common stock may be issued by our board of directors for such consideration as they may consider sufficient without seeking stockholder approval. The issuance of additional shares of common stock in the future will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of current stockholders. Your Percentage Ownership of our Common Shares may be Diluted by Future Share Issuances To the extent we issue new shares to fund acquisitions, to raise additional capital, to compensate employees and other persons your percentage ownership of our shares will be diluted. We Do Not Intend To Pay Future Cash Dividends. We currently do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock at any time in the near future. We may never pay cash dividends or distributions on our common stock. Any credit agreements which we may enter into with institutional lenders may restrict our ability to pay dividends. Whether we pay cash dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and any other factors that the board of directors decides is relevant. 23 Table of Contents Our Common Stock is Illiquid And Should A Market For Our Securities Develop The Price Of Our Securities May Be Volatile. Our shares are currently listed on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board, the market for our securities is and will likely remain illiquid. This means that as an investor you will likely have a difficult time selling our Common Stock at market. Furthermore because of the small amount of shares that will be outstanding and or in the public float, the market price of our common stock may experience significant volatility. Other factors that may contribute to volatility should a market for our Common Stock develop are, our quarterly results, announcements by us or our competitors regarding acquisitions or dispositions, loss of existing clients, new procedures or technology, litigation, changes in general conditions in the economy and general market conditions could cause the market price of the common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the trading prices of equity securities of many technology and Internet companies. Frequently, these price and volume fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Future Sales Of Our Common Stock May Depress Our Stock Price. If our controlling stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market following this merger or at any time in the future, the market price of our common stock could fall. Existing Shareholders beneficially hold approximately 60,135,344 Shares of which approximately 41,871,088 shares are in the public float and are eligible to be sold free of any restrictions. All other Shares are held by affiliates of the Company. The Company can make no prediction as to the effect, if any, that sale of Shares, or the availability of Shares for future sale, will have on the market price of the Shares prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of Shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could depress prevailing market prices for the Shares. Such sales may also make it more difficult for the Company to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price, which it deems appropriate. Broker-Dealers may be discouraged from effecting transactions in our common stock because they may be considered a “Penny Stock” and are subject to the applicable Penny Stock rules. Rules 15g-1 through 15g-9 promulgated under the Exchange Act impose sales practice and disclosure requirements on certain brokers-dealers who engage in certain transactions involving a “penny stock.” Subject to certain exceptions, a penny stock generally includes any non-NASDAQ equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share. There is currently no established price quotation for our shares, however, we expect that initial quotations will not exceed $5.00 and there is the possibility that the quoted shares price may never exceed $5.00, and that our common stock will be deemed penny stock for the purposes of the Exchange Act. The additional sales practice and disclosure requirements imposed upon brokers-dealers may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the stock and impede the sale of our stock in the secondary market. Specifically, any broker-dealer selling penny stock to anyone other than an established customer or “accredited investor,” generally, an individual with net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or an annual income exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with his or her spouse, must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and must receive the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale, unless the broker-dealer or the transaction is otherwise exempt. In addition, the penny stock regulations require the broker-dealer to deliver, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prepared by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the penny stock market, unless the broker-dealer or the transaction is otherwise exempt. A broker-dealer is also required to disclose commissions payable to the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, a broker-dealer is required to send monthly statements disclosing recent price information with respect to the penny stock held in a customer’s account and information with respect to the limited market in penny stocks. 24 Table of Contents 