ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s property in Diamondhead, Mississippi is the only asset of material value held by the Company. The Company is entirely dependent on the successful development of and/or sale or lease of part or all of this property to generate future cash flow. The successful development of the property will require substantial financial resources. The Company does not have the financial resources to develop the property or any portion thereof. To date, the Company has not found a partner(s) with whom to develop the property on terms that are acceptable to the Company. The ultimate development of the property is subject to risks and uncertainties which include, but are not limited to, those relating to permitting, financing, and the actions of federal, state, or local governments and agencies. In addition, the State of Mississippi could vote to prohibit gambling which would have an enormous, adverse effect on the value of the Company’s Diamondhead property, the development of the property, and any gaming operation that might be in operation at the time any such prohibition was instituted. 15 Table of Contents The design, construction, and on-time opening of a casino resort are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with cost overruns, contract-related contingencies, developer, contractor or subcontractor failures to perform, costs increases and availability of materials, supplies and equipment, labor shortages, strikes, walkouts and weather-related and other construction delays. The occurrence of a natural disaster could disrupt operations on the property for elongated periods of time. Any such occurrence could also alter the market for the project temporarily or permanently and have an adverse effect on the value of the property and the business of the Company. The gaming industry is characterized by intense competition. Many companies, with which the Company will compete, are substantially larger and have significantly greater resources than the Company. Furthermore, it is likely that other competitors will emerge in the future. Assuming the Company is successful in constructing a casino resort, the success of the project will be subject to risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those relating to local, national, and worldwide competition, including competition with Native American casinos which enjoy significant tax advantages. The Company will also be subject to operational risks, including but not limited to those relating to operations in general, insurance coverage problems unique to the area in which the property is located, weather-related problems including hurricanes and floods and labor-related problems unique to the area. The operation will also be subject to risks relating to security, licensing and suitability findings unique to the gaming industry. In addition, the market in which the Company will operate is evolving and uncertain due to Hurricane Katrina. Moreover, while the Company previously operated gambling ships, the Company has never operated a hotel or land-based casino. The Company’s proposed operations are also subject to all of the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise, including the absence of an operating history. The Company incurs ongoing expenses but has no current revenue and no revenue stream with which to pay ongoing expenses. The Company will not have any revenue stream unless the Company is able to successfully develop its Diamondhead property or generate cash prior to development of the property or the sale of parts or all of the property. The Company’s inability to raise cash to pay its expenses could adversely affect its ability to continue in the future. Current economic conditions in the casino industry, as well as tight credit markets in general, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain reasonable financing for development of the Diamondhead property. As of the date of this report, the Company has limited cash resources available to it. In addition, our auditors have expressed substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern in their audit report of our attached consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009. The market price of the Company’s common stock may be highly volatile. Announcements by the Company and its competitors may lead to wide swings in the market price of the common stock. While the Company is not currently engaged in litigation, the Company is always subject to risk associated with contract-related, employee-related, environmental-related and other litigation. Any such litigation would likely be expensive and time-consuming. The foregoing are not intended to encompass and do not encompass every risk or uncertainty associated with investment in the Company. The Company may be affected by some or all of the foregoing and other risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 