Item 1A. Risk Factors. Forward Looking Statements Some information included in this report, other materials filed or to be filed with the SEC, as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us contain or incorporate by reference certain statements (other than statements of historical fact) that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. When used herein, the words “assume,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “goal,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “estimate,” “could,” “believes,” “seeks,” “plans,” “intends,” “projects” or “targets” and similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Where any forward-looking statement includes a statement of the assumptions or bases underlying such forward-looking statement, we caution that, while we believe these assumptions or bases to be reasonable and to be made in good faith, assumed facts or bases almost always vary from actual results, and the difference between assumed facts or bases and actual results could be material, depending on the circumstances. It is important to note that actual results could differ materially from those projected by such forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable and such forward-looking statements are based upon the best data available at the date this report is filed with the SEC, we cannot assure you that such expectations will prove correct. Factors that could cause our results to differ materially from the results discussed in such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: · general economic, business, and political conditions in the markets we serve or hope to serve in the United States and abroad; · the demand for our products and services in the Gulf of Mexico could continue to be adversely impacted by the 2010 oil spill, resulting regulatory reforms, and ongoing regulatory uncertainty; · the supply, demand, and prices for oil, gas, and competing energy sources, and more particularly the supply, demand, and prices for well completion, diving, and abandonment and decommissioning services; · activities of our customers and competitors; · the availability of raw materials and labor at reasonable prices; · operating and safety risks inherent in oil and gas production; · access to pipelines, gas gathering and processing facilities for our oil and gas production; · possible impairments of long-lived assets, including goodwill; · the potential impact of the loss of one or more key employees; · cost, availability, and adequacy of insurance and the ability to recover thereunder; · technological obsolescence; · weather risks, including the risk of physical damage to our platforms, facilities, and equipment and the ability to resume operations following damage; · our ability to implement our business strategy; · uncertainties about finding, developing, producing, and estimating oil and gas reserves and plugging and abandoning wells and structures; · the accounting for our oil and gas operations may result in volatility of earnings; · the availability of capital (including any financing) to fund our business strategy and/or operations and any restrictions resulting from such financing; · foreign currency risks; · the impact of existing and future laws and regulations; 13 · environmental risks; · estimates of hurricane repair costs; · acquisition valuation and integration risks; and · risks related to our foreign operations. All such forward-looking statements in this document are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements in this paragraph, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. Certain Business Risks Although it is not possible to identify all of the risks we encounter, we have identified the following significant risk factors that could affect our actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from any such results that might be projected, forecasted, or estimated by us in this report. Market Risks The demand and prices for our products and services are affected by the general economic, financial, business, political, and social conditions in the markets we serve or hope to serve in the future. The demand for our products and services is materially dependent on the supply, demand, and prices for oil, natural gas, and competing energy sources, and more specifically dependent on the supply, demand, and prices for the products and services we offer, both in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we operate. These factors are also influenced by the regional economic, financial, business, political, and social conditions within the markets we serve or hope to serve, as well as the national and international economic, financial, business, political and social conditions that impact the supply, demand, and prices of oil and gas. Activity levels have decreased as a result of the recent decline in energy consumption caused by the recent global recession. Decreased energy consumption has resulted in a decrease in energy prices, particularly natural gas prices, during much of 2010 compared to prices received during early to mid-2008. This decline in energy prices has negatively affected the operating cash flows and capital plans of many of our customers, which has negatively impacted the demand for many of our products and services. If economic conditions worsen, there may be additional constraints on oil and gas industry spending levels. Such a stagnation of economic activity would negatively affect both the demand for many of our products and services as well as the prices we charge for these products and services, which would continue to negatively affect our revenues and future growth. During times when oil or natural gas prices are low, many of our customers are more likely to experience a downturn in their financial condition. Economic conditions may also lead to additional constraints on the operating cash flows of our customers, potentially impacting their ability to pay us in a timely manner, which could result in increased customer bankruptcies and may lead to increased uncollectible receivables. The demand for our products and services in the Gulf of Mexico could continue to be adversely impacted by the 2010 Macondo blowout and resulting oil spill, which has led to increased regulation and continuing regulatory uncertainty. On April 20, 2010, a blowout on the Macondo well resulted in the rig catching fire and sinking. The resulting government-imposed drilling moratorium in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and related regulatory requirements have significantly reduced the U.S. Gulf of Mexico completion fluids market and slowed the permitting of new drilling activity and plug and abandonment work in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. The BOEMRE has issued several new regulations that are focused on offshore operating requirements, spill cleanup and enforcement matters. The BOEMRE recently issued to U.S. Gulf of Mexico operators notices implementing additional safety and certification requirements applicable to drilling activities in the Gulf of Mexico that have resulted in operations and projects being curtailed or suspended. Although the moratorium was lifted in October 2010, the backlog of permits waiting to be issued for operations in the shallow water, for both new drilling and plug and abandonment work, and regulatory uncertainty regarding the deepwater activities did, 14 and are expected to continue to, negatively affect our Fluids Division and, to a lesser extent, our Offshore Services segment. Although we are unable to predict the full continuing impact of these factors on future operating results going forward, we expect our offshore activity levels and the offshore activity levels of our Fluids Division customers to be less than they were prior to April 2010. In addition, we cannot predict how government regulatory agencies will further respond to the 2010 Macondo well incident or whether additional changes in laws and regulations concerning operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico will be enacted. Future regulatory requirements could further delay our customers’ activities, reduce our revenues, and increase our operating costs, including the cost to insure offshore operations, resulting in reduced cash flows and profitability. Our oil and gas revenues and cash flows are subject to oil and gas price volatility. Our revenues from the sale of oil and gas production represent approximately 23.1% of our total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. Therefore, we have significant direct market risk exposure in the pricing of our oil and gas production. Our realized pricing is primarily driven by the prevailing worldwide price for crude oil and spot prices in the U.S. natural gas market and by the fixed prices in our derivative contracts for the portion of our oil and gas production that is hedged. During 2010, the crude oil and natural gas prices we received averaged $79.01 and $4.57, respectively, prior to the impact of our derivative contracts. Prices for crude oil and natural gas have historically been volatile, and such volatility is expected to continue. Significant declines in prices for oil and natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and quantities of reserves recoverable on an economic basis. Our risk management activities include the use of derivative financial instruments, such as swap agreements, to hedge the impact of market price risk exposures for a portion of our oil and gas production. A portion of our production is sold at a fixed price that is intended to protect us from price declines that could occur in the market. These hedging activities also limit our upside potential from oil and gas price increases. We are exposed to the volatility of oil and gas prices for the portion of our oil and gas production that is not hedged. Currently, we do not have any natural gas derivative swap contracts in place, and our crude oil derivative swap contracts do not extend beyond December 31, 2011. Oil and gas prices and, therefore, the levels of well drilling, completion, workover, and production activities, tend to fluctuate. Worldwide military, political, and economic events, including initiatives by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and increasing or decreasing demand in other large world economies, have contributed to, and are likely to continue to contribute to, price volatility. The expansion of alternative energy supplies that compete with oil and gas, improvements in energy conservation, and improvements in the energy efficiency of vehicles, plants, equipment, and devices will also reduce oil and gas consumption or slow its growth. The profitability of our operations is dependent on other numerous factors beyond our control. Our operating results in general, and gross profit in particular, are functions of market conditions and the product and service mix sold in any period. Other factors, such as heightened competition, changes in sales and distribution channels, availability of skilled labor and contract services, shortages in raw materials, or inability to obtain supplies at reasonable prices, may also affect the cost of sales and the fluctuation of gross margin in future periods. Other factors affecting our operating results and activity levels include finding, development, and acquisition costs of oil and natural gas reserves; oil and gas industry spending levels for exploration, development, and acquisition activities; production costs; plugging and abandonment costs; insurance costs; the success rates of new oil and gas reserve development; and the remaining recoverable reserves in the basins in which we operate. A large concentration of our operating activities is located in the onshore and offshore U.S. Gulf Coast region. Our revenues and profitability are particularly dependent upon oil and gas industry activity and spending levels in this region. Our operations may also be affected by technological advances, cost of capital, tax policies, and overall worldwide economic activity. Adverse changes in any of these other factors may depress the levels of well drilling, completion, workover, and production activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, thereby having a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. 15 We encounter and expect to continue to encounter intense competition in the sale of our products and services. We compete with numerous companies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other related resources than we have. To the extent competitors offer comparable products or services at lower prices, or higher quality, more cost-effective products or services, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We are dependent on third-party suppliers for specific products and equipment necessary to provide certain of our products and services. We sell a variety of clear brine fluids to the oil and gas industry, including calcium chloride, calcium bromide, zinc bromide, zinc calcium bromide, and sodium bromide, some of which we manufacture and some of which are purchased from third parties. We also sell calcium chloride to non-energy markets. Sales of calcium chloride and bromide compound products contribute significantly to our revenues. In our manufacture of calcium chloride, we use brines, hydrochloric acid, and other raw materials purchased from third parties. In our manufacture of bromide compound products, we use bromine, hydrobromic acid, and other raw materials, including various forms of zinc, which are purchased from third parties. We rely on Chemtura as a supplier of raw materials, both for our bromide compound products as well as for our El Dorado, Arkansas, calcium chloride plant. We also acquire bromide compound products from several third-party suppliers. If we are unable to acquire the bromide compound products, bromine, hydrobromic or hydrochloric acid, zinc, or any other supplies of raw material at reasonable prices for a prolonged period, our business could be materially and adversely affected. As a result of the continuing general economic conditions, many chemical manufacturers are experiencing reduced demand, production interruptions, and financial difficulties. For example, during March 2009, Chemtura announced that it and its affiliates had filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy code. Under bankruptcy, Chemtura had the right to accept or reject executory contracts, including certain of our agreements with them under which we acquire raw material bromine and brine. During the fourth quarter of 2009, we negotiated certain amendments to our existing agreements with Chemtura, and such amended agreements were signed by Chemtura and approved by the bankruptcy court. Also during 2009, we wrote down the value of our investment in a European calcium chloride manufacturing joint venture following our joint venture partner’s announced shutdown of its adjacent plant facility that supplies feedstock to the joint venture’s plant. In addition, occasional raw material supply constraints have resulted in certain of our manufacturing facilities operating at less than full capacity, resulting in decreased production volumes. Most recently, the diminished availability of economical raw materials has led to the shutdown of our Lake Charles, Louisiana, calcium chloride plant facility’s dry product manufacturing operation. The availability of feedstock raw materials at economical prices may continue to affect the operations of our various manufacturing facilities going forward. The purchase of alternative raw material supplies at a less favorable cost could also result in decreased profitability. Some of the well abandonment and decommissioning services performed by our Offshore Services segment require the use of vessels, equipment, and services provided by third parties. We lease equipment and obtain services from certain providers; this equipment and these services are subject to availability at reasonable prices, of which there can be no assurance. The fabrication of our production testing equipment and wellhead compressor units requires the purchase of many types of components, some of which we obtain from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on these suppliers exposes us to the risk of price increases, inferior component quality, or an inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components in a timely manner. The profitability or future growth of our Production Enhancement Division may be adversely affected due to our dependence on these key suppliers. Our exploration and production operations are subject to the availability of drilling rigs, tubular products, and numerous other products and services at reasonable prices. 16 We may not be able to obtain access to pipelines, gas gathering, transmission, and processing facilities to market our oil and gas production. The marketing of oil and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity, and capacity of pipelines, gas gathering systems, and other transportation, processing and refining facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. If there was insufficient capacity available on these systems, or if these systems were unavailable to us, the price offered for our production could be significantly depressed, or we could be forced to shut-in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans while we construct our own facilities. We also rely on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to process, transmit, and sell our oil and gas production. Currently, a portion of Maritech’s Main Pass field is shut-in due to third-party pipeline issues and the lack of available transportation for production. This production may remain shut-in indefinitely while we await a resolution by third parties and consider alternative transportation options. Our plans to develop and sell our oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transmission or processing facilities to us. The economic environment could result in significant impairments of certain of our long-lived assets, including goodwill. The economic environment could result in decreased demand for many of our products and services, which could impact the expected utilization rates of certain of our long-lived assets, including plant facilities, operating locations, vessels, and other operating equipment. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review the carrying value of our long-lived assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable, based on their expected future cash flows. The impact of reduced expected future cash flow could require the write-down of all or a portion of the carrying value for these assets, which would result in an impairment charge to earnings, resulting in increased earnings volatility. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review the carrying value of our goodwill for possible impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Changes in circumstances indicating the carrying value of our goodwill may not be recoverable include a decline in our stock price and our market capitalization, future cash flows, and slower growth rates in our industry. If economic and market conditions decline, we may be required to record a charge to earnings during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined, resulting in a negative impact on our results of operations. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace, and the continued ability to attract new employees. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train, and retain skilled management and employees at reasonable compensation levels. The delivery of our products and services requires personnel with specialized skills and experience. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. The demand for skilled managers and workers in the U.S. Gulf Coast region and other regions in which we operate is high, and the supply is limited. A lack of qualified personnel, therefore, could adversely affect operating results. Operating, Technological, and Strategic Risks Our operations involve significant operating risks, and insurance coverage may not be available or cost effective. We are subject to operating hazards normally associated with the oilfield service industry and offshore oil and gas production operations, including fires, explosions, blowouts, formation collapse, mechanical problems, abnormally pressured formations, and environmental accidents. Environmental accidents could include, but are not limited to: oil spills; gas leaks or ruptures; uncontrollable flows of oil, gas, or well fluids; or discharges of CBFs or toxic gases or other pollutants. These operating hazards also include injuries to employees and third parties during the performance of our operations. Our operation of marine vessels, heavy equipment, offshore production platforms, and the performance of heavy lift and diving 17 services involve particularly high levels of risk. In addition, certain of our employees who perform services on offshore platforms and vessels are covered by the provisions of the Jones Act, the Death on the High Seas Act, and general maritime law. These laws make the liability limits established by state workers’ compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and, instead, permit them or their representatives to pursue actions against us for damages for job-related injuries. Whenever possible, we obtain agreements from customers and suppliers that limit our exposure. However, the occurrence of certain operating hazards, including storms, could result in substantial losses to us due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage, and suspension of operations. We have maintained a policy of insuring our risks of operational hazards that we believe is typical in the industry. Limits of insurance coverage we have purchased are consistent with the exposures we face and the nature of our products and services. Due to economic conditions in the insurance industry, from time to time, we have increased our self-insured retentions for certain policies in order to minimize the increased costs of coverage. In certain areas of our business, we, from time to time, have elected to assume the risk of loss for specific assets. To the extent we suffer losses or claims that are not covered, or are only partially covered by insurance, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We face risks related to our growth strategy. Our growth strategy includes both internal growth and growth through acquisitions. Internal growth may require significant capital expenditures, some of which may become unrecoverable or fail to generate an acceptable level of cash flows. Internal growth may also require financial resources (including the use of available cash or additional long-term debt) and management and personnel resources. Acquisitions also require significant financial and management resources, both at the time of the transaction and during the process of integrating the newly acquired business into our operations. If we overextend our current financial resources by growing too aggressively, we could face liquidity problems or have difficulty obtaining additional financing. Any recent or future acquisition transactions by us may not achieve favorable financial results. Our operating results could be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully integrate newly acquired companies into our operations, are unable to hire adequate personnel, or are unable to retain existing personnel. We may not be able to consummate future acquisitions on favorable terms. Acquisition or internal growth assumptions developed to support our decisions could prove to be overly optimistic. Future acquisitions by us could result in issuances of equity securities, or the rights associated with the equity securities, which could potentially dilute earnings per share. Future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt or contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. These factors could adversely affect our future operating results and financial position. We have technological and age obsolescence risk, both with our products and services as well as with our equipment assets. Competitors constantly evolve their technologies and methodologies and replace their used assets with new assets. If we are unable to adapt to new advances in technology or replace mature assets with new assets, we are at risk of losing customers and market share. In particular, many of our most significant equipment assets, including heavy lift barges and dive support vessels, are approaching the end of their useful lives, which may adversely affect our ability to serve certain customers. The permanent replacement or upgrade of any of our vessels will require significant capital. Due to the unique nature of many of these vessels, finding a suitable or acceptable replacement may be difficult and/or cost prohibitive. The replacement or enhancement of these vessels over the next several years may be necessary in order for the Offshore Services segment to effectively compete in the current marketplace. The production volumes and profitability from our El Dorado, Arkansas, calcium chloride plant facility may not be as timely or as high as expected. During late 2009 and early 2010, we completed the construction and began the commissioning of a calcium chloride plant facility near El Dorado, Arkansas. During 2010, the El Dorado plant experienced significant start-up costs and early production inefficiencies that resulted in decreased profitability levels compared to our estimates. We continue to take steps to improve the operational efficiency of the plant, however, there is still a considerable effort required, and significant improvement in plant performance is not expected until mid-2011. We believe that significant additional capital investment may be necessary, 18 depending on the plant’s performance during the first half of 2011. The plant’s future profitability and the advantages we expect to receive from the plant will be based on many factors, including the sales prices to be received for the plant’s products, raw material and operating costs, our ability to improve the plant’s performance, and future demand for products. There can be no assurance that the El Dorado, Arkansas, plant’s future profitability will achieve original expectations. We could incur losses on fixed price contracts. Due to competitive market conditions, a portion of our well abandonment and decommissioning projects may be performed on a turnkey, modified turnkey, or day-rate basis. Pursuant to these types of contracts, defined work is delivered for a fixed price, and extra work, which is subject to customer approval, is charged separately. The revenue, cost, and gross profit realized on these types of contracts can vary from the estimated amount because of changes in offshore conditions, increases in the scope of the work to be performed, increased site clearance efforts required, labor and equipment availability, cost and productivity levels, and the performance level of other contractors. In addition, unanticipated events, such as accidents, work delays, significant changes in the condition of platforms or wells, downhole problems, and environmental or other technical issues, could result in significant losses on these types of projects. These variations and risks may result in our experiencing reduced profitability or losses on these types of projects or on well abandonment and decommissioning work for our Maritech subsidiary. Oil and gas exploration and production activities involve numerous risks and are subject to a variety of factors that we cannot control. We have risks associated with our Maritech exploration and production business. These risks include those associated with finding and developing economically recoverable and marketable oil and natural gas reserves, and finding and acquiring leases and existing reserves on attractive terms. There are inherent uncertainties surrounding estimates of oil and gas reserve volumes, finding and development costs, production costs, and abandonment and decommissioning costs. To the extent we overestimate future oil and natural gas sales prices, economically recoverable reserve volumes, or future production flow rates, or we underestimate the associated costs of exploration and production operations, our financial results will be negatively impacted. Drilling for oil and natural gas is a particularly risky activity that includes the risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs. The costs of drilling and completion operations are often difficult to estimate, and the timing of drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed, or canceled as a result of a variety of factors including, but not limited to: · unexpected drilling conditions; · pressure or irregularities in formations; · equipment failures or accidents; · marine risks such as capsizing and collisions; · hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions; · shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment; and · compliance with environmental and other government requirements. During the three year period ended December 31, 2010, we have expended approximately $182.4 million of exploration and development costs, and we may incur significant costs in the future. During the three year period ended December 31, 2010, we charged approximately $9.3 million of dry hole costs incurred to earnings. Future drilling activities may not be successful, and, if unsuccessful, this could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. We may not recover all or any portion of our investment in new wells. We are often uncertain as to the future cost or timing of drilling, completing, and operating wells. While all drilling, whether developmental or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. 19 Maritech’s estimates of its oil and gas reserves and related future cash flows are based on many factors and assumptions, including various assumptions that are based on changing conditions in existence as of the dates of the estimates. Any material changes in those conditions, or other factors affecting those assumptions, could impair the quantity and value of our oil and gas reserves. Maritech’s estimates of oil and gas reserve information are prepared in accordance with Rule 4-10 of Regulation S-X and reflect only estimates of the accumulation of oil and gas and the economic recoverability of those volumes. Maritech’s future production, revenues, and expenditures with respect to such oil and gas reserves will likely be different from estimates, and any material differences may negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As a result, Maritech has experienced, and may continue to experience, significant revisions to its reserve estimates. Oil and gas reservoir analysis is a subjective process which involves estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows associated with such reserves necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions. Because all reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may prove to differ materially from that assumed in estimating reserves: · the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered; · production flow rates over time; · the production and operating costs incurred; · the amount and timing of future development and abandonment expenditures; and · future oil and gas sales prices. Furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flow based on the same available data. The estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves described in this Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2010, should not be considered as the current market value of the estimated oil and gas proved reserves attributable to Maritech’s properties. Such estimates are based on prices and costs in accordance with SEC requirements, while future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Using lower prices in forecasting reserves will result in a shorter life being given to producing oil and natural gas properties, because such properties, as their production levels are estimated to decline, will reach an uneconomic limit with lower prices at an earlier date. There can be no assurance that a decrease in oil and gas prices or other differences in Maritech’s estimates of its reserves will not adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. The acquisition of oil and gas properties and their associated well abandonment and decommissioning liabilities is based on estimated data that may be materially incorrect. In conjunction with our acquisition of oil and gas properties, we perform detailed due diligence review processes that we believe are consistent with industry practices. These acquired properties consist of both mature properties, which are generally in the later stages of their economic lives, as well as exploration and prospect opportunities. Each acquisition of oil and gas properties requires a thorough review of the expected cash flows acquired and the associated abandonment obligations assumed. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex, requiring significant decisions and assumptions to be made in evaluating the available geological, geophysical, engineering, and economic data for each reservoir. The volatility of oil and natural gas commodity pricing additionally complicates the calculation of estimated future cash flows of properties to be acquired. As a result, these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, cash flows, development expenditures, operating and abandonment expenses, and quantities of recoverable natural gas and oil reserves may vary substantially from those initially estimated by us. Also, in conjunction with the purchase of certain oil and gas properties, we assume our proportionate share of the related well abandonment and decommissioning liabilities after performing detailed estimating procedures, analysis, and engineering studies. Our estimates of these future well abandonment and decommissioning liabilities are imprecise and are subject to change due to changes in the forecasts of the supply, demand, pricing and timing of well abandonment and decommissioning services; damage to wells and infrastructure caused by hurricanes and other natural events; changes in governmental regulations governing well abandonment and 20 decommissioning work; and other factors. During 2010, Maritech adjusted its decommissioning liabilities, increasing them by approximately $130.8 million, either for work performed during the year or related to adjusted estimates of the cost of future work to be performed. Approximately $54.0 million of this adjustment was directly charged to earnings as an operating expense and the remainder was charged to the associated properties and partly contributed to asset impairments during 2010. If the actual cost of future abandonment and decommissioning work is materially greater than our current estimates, such additional costs could have an additional adverse effect on earnings. Acquisitions or discoveries of additional reserves are needed to avoid a material decline in oil and gas reserves and production volumes. The rate of production from oil and gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. Approximately 42.7% of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2010, are proved producing reserves. Except to the extent that we find or acquire additional properties containing estimated proved reserves; conduct successful exploration or development activities; or through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones, secondary recovery reserves, or tertiary recovery reserves, our estimated proved reserves will decline materially as reserves are produced. Natural gas and oil commodity pricing, as well as constraints on the amount of capital we have available to allocate to oil and gas activities, may limit our exploitation, development, or exploration activities for the foreseeable future, which will reduce our ability to replace produced oil and gas reserves. Future oil and gas production is, therefore, highly dependent upon our ability and level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves. Our accounting for oil and gas operations may result in volatile earnings. We account for our oil and gas operations using the successful efforts method. Costs incurred to drill and equip development wells, including unsuccessful development wells, are capitalized. Costs related to unsuccessful exploratory wells are expensed as incurred. All capitalized costs are accumulated and recorded separately for each field and are depleted on a unit-of-production basis, based on the estimated remaining equivalent proved oil and gas reserves of each field. The capitalized costs of our oil and natural gas properties, on a field basis, cannot exceed the estimated undiscounted future net cash flows of that field. If net capitalized costs exceed undiscounted future net revenues, we must write down the costs of each such field to our estimate of its fair market value. Accordingly, a significant decline in oil or natural gas prices, unsuccessful exploration and/or development efforts, or an increase in our decommissioning liabilities could cause a future write-down of capitalized costs. During the three year period ended December 31, 2010, and primarily due to increased decommissioning liabilities and the decrease in oil and natural gas prices, we recorded oil and gas property impairments totaling approximately $117.8 million. Unproved properties are evaluated at the lower of cost or fair market value. On a field by field basis, our oil and gas properties are assessed for impairment in value whenever indicators become evident, with any impairment charged to expense. Under the successful efforts method of accounting, we are exposed to the risk that the value of a particular property (field) would have to be written down or written off if an impairment were present. Weather Related Risks Certain of our operations, particularly those conducted offshore, are seasonal and depend, in part, on weather conditions. The Offshore Services segment has historically enjoyed its highest vessel utilization rates during the period from April to October, when weather conditions are typically more favorable for offshore activities, and has experienced its lowest utilization rates in the period from November to March. This segment, under certain turnkey and other contracts, may bear the risk of delays caused by adverse weather conditions. Severe storms can also cause our oil and gas producing properties to be shut-in. In addition, demand for other products and services we provide are subject to seasonal fluctuations, due in part to weather conditions that cannot be predicted. Accordingly, our operating results may vary from quarter to quarter depending on weather conditions in applicable areas. 21 Severe weather, including named windstorms, can cause significant damage and disruption to our businesses. A significant portion of our operations is susceptible to adverse weather conditions in the Gulf of Mexico, including hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions. High winds, rising water, storm surge, and turbulent seas can cause significant damage and curtail our operations for extended periods during and after such weather conditions, while damage is being assessed and remediated. The costs to bring damaged offshore wells under control and to repair or remove damaged offshore platforms, pipelines, vessels, or other equipment can be significant. Moreover, even if we do not experience direct damage from storms, we may experience disruptions in our operations because we are unable to operate or our customers or suppliers may curtail their activities due to damage to their wells, platforms, pipelines, and other facilities. We incurred a significant amount of damage as a result of 2005 and 2008 hurricanes, and a portion of these costs have yet to be incurred and may not be covered under our insurance policies. We incurred significant damage to certain of our onshore and offshore operating equipment and facilities during the third quarters of 2005 and 2008, primarily as a result of Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Ike. In particular, our Maritech subsidiary suffered varying levels of damage to the majority of its offshore oil and gas producing platforms, and six of its platforms were destroyed by these storms. In addition, two production facilities located in inland waters were destroyed. Maritech has reconstructed the two destroyed production facilities, and four of the destroyed platforms have been decommissioned. A majority of our damaged assets, with the exception of the remaining destroyed Maritech platforms, have been repaired or are in the final stages of being repaired, and have resumed operation. Remaining hurricane damage repair efforts consist primarily of the well intervention, abandonment, decommissioning, and debris removal associated with the remaining destroyed offshore platforms and the redrilling of a number of destroyed wells to be redrilled from a newly constructed replacement platform. While a large portion of the well intervention, abandonment, and decommissioning work has been performed on some of the destroyed platforms and the inland water production facilities, a significant amount of the work has yet to be performed. Through December 31, 2010, we have expended approximately $125.0 million for the well intervention, abandonment, decommissioning, platform reconstruction, and debris removal work performed on the platforms and production facilities which were destroyed by the storms. The remaining well intervention and subsequent debris removal efforts are expected to be performed during 2011. We estimate that the remaining abandonment, decommissioning, debris removal, and well redrilling efforts associated with the destroyed platforms will be performed at an additional cost of approximately $50 to $65 million net to our interest and before any insurance recoveries. Actual costs could greatly exceed these estimates and, depending on the nature of any excess costs incurred, could result in significant charges to earnings in future periods. Following the collection of $47.8 million insurance settlement proceeds during 2010 associated with Hurricane Ike, Maritech has additional maximum remaining insurance coverage available of approximately $19.5 million, all of which relates to Hurricane Ike. With regard to the damages associated with Hurricane Ike, we have performed a significant majority of the property repairs on the damaged and destroyed platforms. These efforts included the reconstruction of the destroyed East Cameron 328 platform and the initial redrilling efforts of wells associated with this destroyed platform. Despite our confidence that the majority of the remaining repair, debris removal, and well redrilling costs relating to Hurricane Ike will qualify as covered costs pursuant to our insurance coverage, a portion of these costs may not be reimbursed. One of the underwriters associated with our windstorm insurance coverage for Hurricane Ike damages has contested whether certain repair costs incurred are covered costs under the policy. During December 2010, we initiated legal proceedings against this underwriter in an attempt to collect the amount of claim reimbursements provided for under the policy. The timing of the collection of any future reimbursements is beyond our control, and we will continue to use a significant amount of our working capital until such reimbursements are received. In addition, a portion of the reimbursements ultimately received may be offset by legal and other administrative costs incurred in our attempts to collect them. Our estimates of the remaining costs to be incurred may be imprecise. To the extent actual future costs exceed the policy maximum for these costs, such excess costs would not be reimbursable. For a further discussion of the remaining costs to repair damage as a result of 2005 and 2008 hurricanes, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, “Note B – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Repair Costs and Insurance Recoveries.” 22 Our oil and gas production levels continue to be affected by the 2008 hurricanes. Our operating cash flows continue to be affected by the interruption in Maritech’s oil and gas production as a result of damage to offshore platforms and pipelines caused by the 2008 hurricanes. One of the destroyed offshore platforms was on the East Cameron 328 field, which is a key producing field. During the fourth quarter of 2009, Maritech modified one of the remaining platforms in this field and has restored a portion of the interrupted production. During 2010, Maritech completed the construction of a new offshore production platform to replace the destroyed platform, and has begun redrilling certain wells from the new platform. These redrill efforts are estimated to cost approximately $13 to $19 million, before insurance recoveries, and are scheduled to be completed in 2011. With regard to the shut-in production, our insurance protection does not include business interruption coverage. While repair and recovery efforts have been prioritized to restore Maritech’s production as soon as possible, these production restoration efforts are expected to continue into 2011 and beyond. The full resumption of Maritech’s pre-storm production levels may never occur. Windstorm insurance coverage for Gulf of Mexico offshore oil and gas production operations is costly, and may result in significant uninsured losses for our Maritech operations. In the past, we have maintained windstorm insurance that is designed to cover damages to our Maritech platforms, equipment, and other assets located in the Gulf of Mexico. As a result of hurricanes in 2005 and 2008, Maritech suffered varying levels of damage to a majority of its offshore platforms, and several platforms were destroyed. Following these storms, insurance premiums and deductibles for windstorm insurance covering these assets increased dramatically, and policy limits and sub-limits were decreased dramatically. During the second quarter of 2009, we determined that the cost of premiums and the associated deductibles and coverage limits for windstorm damage for Maritech’s offshore properties made the continuation of such coverage uneconomical, and Maritech discontinued its insurance coverage for windstorm damage through May 2010, electing to self-insure for these damages. During the second quarter of 2010, we purchased windstorm insurance coverage for the June 2010 through May 2011 season, but with significantly decreased policy limits and sub-limits and increased deductibles. If premiums, deductibles, and policy limits for windstorm insurance remain as unfavorable for the June 2011 through May 2012 season, we may once again choose to retain a significant amount of hurricane risk. Depending on the severity and location of any storms during a period in which we are self-insured or carry high deductibles, uninsured losses could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. There can be no assurance that future insurance coverage with more favorable deductible and maximum coverage amounts will be available in the market or that its cost will be justifiable. There can be no assurance that any insurance will be adequate to cover losses or liabilities associated with operational hazards. We cannot predict the availability of insurance or its availability at premium levels that justify its purchase. Financial Risks Significant deterioration of our financial ratios could result in covenant defaults under our long-term debt agreements and result in decreased credit availability. As of December 31, 2010, our total debt outstanding was approximately $305.0 million and our debt to total capital ratio was 37.1%. This debt to total capital ratio excludes approximately $65.4 million of available cash held as of December 31, 2010. Additional growth could result in increased debt levels to support our capital expenditure needs or acquisition activities. Debt service costs related to outstanding long-term debt represent a significant use of our operating cash flow and could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. Our long-term debt agreements contain customary covenants and other restrictions and requirements. In addition, the agreements require us to maintain certain financial ratio requirements. Significant deterioration of these ratios could result in a default under the agreements. The agreements also include cross-default provisions relating to any other indebtedness we have that is greater than a defined amount. If any such indebtedness is not paid or is accelerated and such event is not remedied in a timely manner, a default will occur under the long-term debt agreements. Any event of default, if not 23 timely remedied, could result in a termination of all commitments of the lenders and an acceleration of any outstanding loans and credit obligations. We are exposed to significant credit risks. We face credit risk associated with the significant amounts of accounts receivable we have with our customers in the energy industry. Many of our customers, particularly those associated with our onshore operations, are small-sized to medium-sized oil and gas operating companies that may be more susceptible to fluctuating oil and gas commodity prices or generally increased operating expenses than larger companies. Our ability to collect from our customers may be impacted by adverse changes in the energy industry. Maritech purchases interests in oil and gas properties in connection with the operations of our Offshore Division. As the owner and operator of these interests, Maritech is liable for the proper abandonment and decommissioning of the wells, platforms, and pipelines, as well as the site clearance related to these properties. We have guaranteed a portion of the abandonment and decommissioning liabilities of Maritech. In certain instances, Maritech is entitled to be paid in the future for all or a portion of these obligations by the previous owner of the property once the liability is satisfied. We and Maritech are subject to the risk that the previous owner(s) will be unable to make these future payments. In addition, if Maritech acquires less than 100% of the working interest in a property, its co-owners are responsible for the payment of their portions of the associated operating expenses and abandonment liabilities. However, if one or more co-owners do not pay their portions, Maritech and any other nondefaulting co-owners may be liable for the defaulted amount. If any required payment is not made by a previous owner or a co-owner and any security is not sufficient to cover the required payment, we could suffer material losses. Our operating results and cash flows for certain of our subsidiaries are subject to foreign currency risk. The operations of certain of our subsidiaries are exposed to fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and certain foreign currencies. Our plans to grow our international operations could cause this exposure from fluctuating currencies to increase. In particular, our growing operations in Brazil, as a result of a long-term contract with Petrobras entered into during 2008, subjects us to increased foreign currency risk in that country. Historically, exchange rates of foreign currencies have fluctuated significantly compared to the U.S. dollar, and this exchange rate volatility is expected to continue. Significant fluctuations in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our balance sheet and results of operations. We are exposed to interest rate risk with regard to our indebtedness. Our revolving credit facility consists of floating rate loans that bear interest at an agreed upon percentage rate spread above LIBOR. Although as of December 31, 2010, there is no balance outstanding under the revolving credit facility, there is no assurance that we will not borrow under the facility in the future. Accordingly, our cash flows and results of operations could be subject to interest rate risk exposure associated with the level of the variable rate debt balance outstanding. We currently are not a party to an interest rate swap contract or other derivative instrument designed to hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuation risk. The terms governing our revolving credit facility were agreed to in October 2010, and it is scheduled to mature in 2015. The terms governing our Senior Notes were agreed to in April 2006, April 2008, and October 2010. These Senior Notes all bear interest at fixed interest rates and are scheduled to mature at various dates between April 2013 and December 2020. There can be no assurance that the financial market conditions or borrowing terms at the times these existing debt agreements are renegotiated will be as favorable. 24 Legal, Regulatory, and Political Risks Our operations are subject to extensive and evolving U.S. and foreign federal, state and local laws and regulatory requirements that increase our operating costs and expose us to potential fines, penalties, and litigation. Laws and regulations strictly govern our operations relating to: corporate governance, employees, taxation, fees, filing requirements, permitting requirements, environmental affairs, health and safety, waste management, and the manufacture, storage, handling, transportation, use, and sale of chemical products. Certain international jurisdictions impose additional restrictions on our activities, such as currency restrictions, importation and exportation restrictions, and restrictions on labor practices. Our operation and decommissioning of offshore properties are also subject to and affected by various government regulations, including numerous federal and state environmental protection laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex and stringent, and compliance is becoming increasingly expensive. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with these regulations, and violators are subject to civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions, or both. Third parties may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance. It is possible that increasingly strict environmental laws, regulations, and enforcement policies could result in substantial costs and liabilities to us and could subject our handling, manufacture, use, reuse, or disposal of substances or pollutants to increased scrutiny. A large portion of Maritech’s oil and gas operations are conducted on offshore federal leases and are governed by increasing U.S. government regulations. During 2010, following the April 2010 Macondo well blowout and resulting oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, the U.S. Minerals Management Service (MMS) was reorganized as the BOEMRE. The U.S. federal government imposed a drilling moratorium in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico that extended until October 2010. The BOEMRE has also issued formal Notice to Lessees (NTLs) and other safety regulations implementing additional safety and certification requirements applicable to drilling activities in the Gulf of Mexico that have resulted in operations and projects being curtailed or suspended. Government regulations also establish construction requirements for production facilities located on federal offshore leases and govern the plugging and abandonment of wells and the removal of production facilities from these leases. Operators must now abide by new “Idle Iron Guidance” regulations that require that permanent plugs be set in nearly 3,500 nonproducing wells and that 650 oil and gas production platforms be dismantled if they are no longer being used. Under limited circumstances, the BOEMRE could require us to suspend or terminate our operations on a federal lease. The BOEMRE also establishes the basis for royalty payments due under federal oil and natural gas leases through regulations issued under applicable statutory authority. We have significant operations that are either ongoing or scheduled to commence in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. At this time, we cannot predict the full impact that other regulatory actions that may be mandated by the BOEMRE may have on our operations or the operations of our customers. Other governmental or regulatory actions could further reduce our revenues and increase our operating costs, including the cost to insure offshore operations, resulting in reduced cash flows and profitability. Our business exposes us to risks such as the potential for harmful substances escaping into the environment and causing damages or injuries, which could be substantial. Although we maintain general liability and pollution liability insurance, these policies are subject to exceptions and coverage limits. We maintain limited environmental liability insurance covering named locations and environmental risks associated with contract services for oil and gas operations and for oil and gas producing properties. We could be materially and adversely affected by an enforcement proceeding or a claim that is not covered or is only partially covered by insurance. Federal legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) has been considered and many states have taken legal measures to reduce GHG emissions. It is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the U.S. Congress will pass climate change legislation, or how any bill approved by Congress may be reconciled with state and regional requirements. EPA has begun to promulgate federal rules under the Clean Air Act including mandatory reporting rules. On September 22, 2009, EPA issued a final rule requiring mandatory reporting of GHG from specified large GHG emission sources in the U.S. beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. On November 30, 2010, EPA published a final rule expanding its existing GHG 25 emissions rule to include onshore and offshore oil and natural gas systems such as those operated by our Maritech subsidiary. Because our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, existing or future laws, regulations, treaties, or international agreements related to greenhouse gases and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, could have a negative impact on our business if such laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements reduce the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or otherwise result in reduced economic activity generally. In addition, such laws, regulations, treaties, or international agreements could result in increased compliance costs, capital spending requirements, or additional operating restrictions, which may have a negative impact on our business. In addition to potential impacts on our business directly or indirectly resulting from climate-change legislation or regulations, our business also could be negatively affected by climate-change related physical changes or changes in weather patterns. In addition to increasing our risk of environmental liability, the rigorous enforcement of environmental laws and regulations has accelerated the growth of some of the markets we serve. Decreased regulation and enforcement in the future could materially and adversely affect the demand for the types of services offered by certain of our Offshore Services operations and, therefore, materially and adversely affect our business. Our proprietary rights may be violated or compromised, which could damage our operations. We own numerous patents, patent applications, and unpatented trade secret technologies in the U.S. and certain foreign countries. There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to deter misappropriation of these rights. In addition, independent third parties may develop competitive or superior technologies. Our expansion into foreign countries exposes us to complex regulations and may present us with new obstacles to growth. We plan to grow both in the United States and in foreign countries. We have established operations in, among other countries, Brazil, Mexico, Argentina, Canada, the United Kingdom, Norway, Finland, Sweden, and India, and have operating joint ventures in Saudi Arabia and Libya. A portion of our planned future growth includes expansion into additional countries. Foreign operations carry special risks. Our business in the countries in which we currently operate and those in which we may operate in the future could be limited or disrupted by: · government controls and government actions, such as expropriation of assets and changes in legal and regulatory environments; · import and export license requirements; · political, social, or economic instability; · trade restrictions; · changes in tariffs and taxes; · restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; · the impact of anti-corruption laws and the risk that actions taken by us or others on our behalf may adversely affect our operations and competitive position in the affected countries; and · the limited knowledge of these markets or the inability to protect our interests. We and our affiliates operate in countries where governmental corruption has been known to exist. While we and our subsidiaries are committed to conducting business in a legal and ethical manner, there is a risk of violating either the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) or laws or legislation promulgated pursuant to the 1997 OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions or other applicable anti-corruption regulations that generally prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. Violation of these laws could result in monetary penalties against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. 26 Foreign governments and agencies often establish permit and regulatory standards different from those in the U.S. If we cannot obtain foreign regulatory approvals, or if we cannot obtain them when we expect, our growth and profitability from international operations could be negatively affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 