Item 1A. Risk Factors. Forward Looking Statements Some information included in this report, other materials filed or to be filed with the SEC, as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us contain or incorporate 11by reference certain statements (other than statements of historical fact) that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. When used herein, the words “assume,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “goal,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “estimate,” “could,” “believes,” “seeks,” “plans,” “intends,” “projects” or “targets” and similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Where any forward-looking statement includes a statement of the assumptions or bases underlying such forward-looking statement, we caution that, while we believe these assumptions or bases to be reasonable and to be made in good faith, assumed facts or bases almost always vary from actual results, and the difference between assumed facts or bases and actual results could be material, depending on the circumstances. It is important to note that actual results could differ materially from those projected by such forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable and such forward-looking statements are based upon the best data available at the date this report is filed with the SEC, we cannot assure you that such expectations will prove correct. Factors that could cause our results to differ materially from the results discussed in such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following:•economic and operating conditions that are outside of our control, including the supply, demand, and prices of crude oil and natural gas;•the levels of competition we encounter;•the impact of market conditions and activity levels of our customers;•possible impairments of long-lived assets, including goodwill;•the availability of capital (including any financing) to fund our business strategy and/or operations, and our ability to comply with covenants and restrictions resulting from such financing;•technological obsolescence;•the availability of raw materials and labor at reasonable prices;•the potential impact of the loss of one or more key employees;•risks related to our growth strategies;•operating and safety risks inherent in our oil and gas services operations;•the demand for our products and services in the Gulf of Mexico, which could continue to be adversely impacted by increased regulation and continuing regulatory uncertainty;•budgetary constraints and ongoing violence in Mexico;•the valuation of decommissioning liabilities;•uncertainties about plugging and abandoning wells and structures, including the wells and structures previously sold;•weather risks, including the risk of physical damage to our platforms, facilities, and equipment;•exposure to credit risks from our customers;•foreign currency and interest rate risks;•the impact of existing and future laws and regulations;•risks related to our foreign operations;•Compressco’s ability to generate sufficient cash from operations to make cash distributions;•risks arising from the use of fixed price contracts;•acquisition valuation and integration risks;•environmental risks;•cost, availability, and adequacy of insurance and the ability to recover thereunder; and•loss or infringement of our intellectual property rights. All such forward-looking statements in this document are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements in this paragraph, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.12 Certain Business Risks Although it is not possible to identify all of the risks we encounter, we have identified the following significant risk factors that could affect our actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from any such results that might be projected, forecasted, or estimated by us in this report. Market Risks The demand and prices for our products and services are affected by several factors, including the supply, demand, and prices for oil and natural gas. Demand for our products and services is materially dependent on the supply, demand, and prices for oil, natural gas, and competing energy sources, and is more specifically dependent on the supply, demand, and prices for the products and services we offer, both in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we operate. These factors are also influenced by the U.S., foreign, and regional economic, financial, business, political, and social conditions within the markets we serve. Oil and gas prices and, therefore, the levels of well drilling, completion, workover, and production activities, tend to fluctuate. Worldwide economic and political events, including initiatives by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and increasing or decreasing demand in other large world economies as well as tremendous growth in natural gas supplies in the U.S. from shale reserves, have contributed to, and are likely to continue to contribute to, price volatility. The expansion of alternative energy supplies that compete with oil and gas, improvements in energy conservation, and improvements in the energy efficiency of vehicles, plants, equipment, and devices will also reduce oil and gas consumption or slow its growth. In particular, U.S. natural gas prices have been negatively affected by overall reduced energy demand in the U.S. due to economic conditions, weather, and the increase in natural gas supplies from shale gas drilling. Low natural gas prices have negatively affected the operating cash flows and exploration and development activities and plans of many of our customers and could have a negative impact on the demand for many of our products and services. If economic conditions or energy prices deteriorate, there may be additional constraints on oil and gas industry spending levels. Reduced spending levels would negatively impact the demand for many of our products and services and the prices we charge for these products and services, which would negatively affect our revenues and future growth.During times when oil or natural gas prices are low, many of our customers are more likely to experience a downturn in their financial condition. Poor economic conditions may also lead to additional constraints on the operating cash flows of our customers, potentially impacting their ability to pay us in a timely manner, which could result in increased customer bankruptcies and uncollectible receivables. We encounter, and expect to continue to encounter, intense competition in the sale of our products and services. We compete with numerous companies in each of our operating segments, many of which have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have. Certain of our competitors may have lower standards of quality, equipment, and safety, and offer services at lower prices than we do. Other competitors have newer equipment that is better suited to our customers' needs. To the extent competitors offer products or services at lower prices or higher quality, or more cost-effective products or services, our business could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, certain of our customers may elect to perform services internally in lieu of using our services, which could also materially and adversely affect our operations. The profitability of our operations is dependent on other numerous factors beyond our control. Our operating results in general, and gross profit in particular, are determined by market conditions and the products and services we sell in any period. Other factors, such as heightened competition, changes in sales and distribution channels, availability of skilled labor and contract services, shortages in raw materials, or inability to obtain supplies at reasonable prices, may also affect the cost of sales and the fluctuation of gross margin in future periods. 13Other factors affecting our operating results and activity levels include oil and natural gas industry spending levels for exploration, development, and acquisition activities and plugging, abandonment, and decommissioning costs on Maritech’s remaining offshore production platforms, wells, and pipelines. A large concentration of our operating activities is located in the onshore and offshore U.S. Gulf Coast region. Our revenues and profitability are particularly dependent upon oil and natural gas industry activity and spending levels in this region. Our operations may also be affected by technological advances, cost of capital, and tax policies. Adverse changes in any of these other factors may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. The demand for our products and services in the Gulf of Mexico could continue to be adversely impacted by increased regulation and continuing regulatory uncertainty. Operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico have been subject to an increasingly stringent regulatory environment including government regulations focused on offshore operating requirements, spill cleanup, and enforcement matters. These regulations also implement additional safety and certification requirements applicable to offshore activities in the Gulf of Mexico. Demand for our products and services in the Gulf of Mexico continues to be affected by regulatory restrictions. Future regulatory requirements could delay our customers’ activities, reduce our revenues, and increase our operating costs, including the cost to insure offshore operations, resulting in reduced cash flows and profitability. The majority of our business in Mexico is performed for Petróleos Mexicanos (PEMEX), and any cutbacks by the Mexican Government on PEMEX’s annual spending budget or security disruptions in Mexico could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The majority of our business in Mexico is performed for PEMEX. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2013, PEMEX accounted for approximately 3.4% of our consolidated revenues and a portion of our operating cash flows. No work or services are guaranteed to be ordered by PEMEX under our contracts with PEMEX, which typically range from six months to two years in length. PEMEX is a decentralized public entity of the Mexican Government, and, therefore, the Mexican Government controls PEMEX, as well as its annual budget, which is approved by the Mexican Congress. The Mexican Government may cut spending in the future. These cuts could adversely affect PEMEX’s annual budget and, thus, its ability to engage us or compensate us for our services. Additionally, at the expiration of our current contracts, we may be required to participate in an open auction to renew them. Recently, the Mexican government implemented an energy industry reform that will allow the government to grant non-Mexican companies the opportunity to enter into contracts and licenses to explore and drill for oil and natural gas in Mexico. Although this reform could result in additional customers for us in Mexico, and a reduction in our dependency on PEMEX, the timing of any impact from this reform is uncertain. Regardless of the impact of this reform, we anticipate that we will continue to be dependent on PEMEX as a significant customer in Mexico.During the past several years, incidents of security disruptions in many regions of Mexico have increased, including drug-related gang activity. Certain incidents of violence have occurred in regions served by us and have resulted in the interruption of our operations. These interruptions could continue or increase in the future. To the extent that such security disruptions continue or increase, our operations will continue to be affected, and the levels of revenue and operating cash flow from our Mexican operations could be reduced. Under the current Ley de Petróleos Mexicanos (the “PEMEX Law”), PEMEX has authority to contract through an auction process with third parties for the exploration, development, and production of hydrocarbons. Our contracts with PEMEX generally have initial terms of two years, and, when these contracts with PEMEX expire, we may be required to participate in an open auction to renew them. Any failure by us to renew our existing contracts with PEMEX or renew them on favorable terms could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. PEMEX has authority to contract through an auction process with third parties for the exploration, development, and production of hydrocarbons. The PEMEX Law permits three types of contracting: contracts resulting from open auctions or invitation-only auctions with at least three invitees, or direct contracting. To utilize an invitation-only auction or a direct contract, PEMEX must provide written justification as to why the specific circumstances of the proposed service contract require less than an open auction. Additionally, open auctions must conform with one of three selected bidder models: either all bidders must be Mexican entities, all bidders must be Mexican entities or foreign entities whose countries of origin are parties to free trade agreements with Mexico that include sections related to governmental procurement, or bidders may be of any national origin. PEMEX may only select the third option if PEMEX determines that either (i) the Mexican market cannot adequately meet the needs of 14the contract, (ii) the third option would be better for PEMEX in terms of price or quality, (iii) the second bidder model was attempted but was unsuccessful, or (iv) the contracts are financed by certain legally required types of foreign loans. In addition, under the PEMEX Law, there may be other qualifications that must be met by bidding service providers. Bidders must meet and maintain all required qualifications at the time of bidding and throughout the term of the contract. Our contracts with PEMEX generally have initial terms of two years, and, when they expire, we may be required to participate in an open auction to renew them. Any failure by us to renew our existing contracts with PEMEX or renew them on favorable terms could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are dependent on third-party suppliers for specific products and equipment necessary to provide certain of our products and services. We sell a variety of clear brine fluids to the oil and gas industry, including calcium chloride, calcium bromide, zinc bromide, zinc calcium bromide, sodium bromide, and formate-based brines, some of which we manufacture and some of which are purchased from third parties. We also sell calcium chloride and sodium bromide to non-energy markets. Sales of calcium chloride and bromide compound products contribute significantly to our revenues. In our manufacture of calcium chloride, we use brines, hydrochloric acid, and other raw materials purchased from third parties. In our manufacture of bromide compound products, we use elemental bromine, hydrobromic acid, and other raw materials which are purchased from third parties. We rely on Chemtura Corporation as a supplier of raw materials for our bromide compound products as well as for our El Dorado, Arkansas, calcium chloride plant. Although we have long-term supply agreements with Chemtura, if we were unable to acquire these raw materials at reasonable prices for a prolonged period, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Some of the well plugging, abandonment, and decommissioning services performed by our Offshore Services segment require the use of vessels, diving, cutting, and other equipment and services provided by third parties. We lease equipment and obtain services from certain providers, and there can be no assurance that this equipment and these services will be available at reasonable prices in the future. The fabrication of our production testing, well monitoring, and rig cooling equipment and wellhead compressor packages requires the purchase of many types of components, some of which we obtain from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on these suppliers exposes us to the risk of price increases, inferior component quality, or an inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components in a timely manner. The profitability or future growth of our Production Enhancement Division may be adversely affected due to our dependence on these key suppliers.Changes in the economic environment could result in significant impairments of certain of our long-lived assets, including goodwill. Changes in the economic environment could result in decreased demand for many of our products and services, which could impact the expected utilization rates of certain of our long-lived assets, including plant facilities, operating locations, barges and vessels, and other operating equipment. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review the carrying value of our long-lived assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable, based on their expected future cash flows. The impact of reduced expected future cash flow could require the write-down of all or a portion of the carrying value for these assets, which would result in an impairment charge to earnings, resulting in increased earnings volatility. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review the carrying value of our goodwill for possible impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Changes in circumstances indicating the carrying value of our goodwill may not be recoverable include a decline in our stock price and our market capitalization, future cash flows, and slower growth rates in our industry. If economic and market conditions decline, we may be required to record a charge to earnings during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined, resulting in a negative impact on our results of operations. 15Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace, and the continued ability to attract new employees. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train, and retain skilled management and employees at reasonable compensation levels. The delivery of our products and services requires personnel with specialized skills and experience. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. The demand for skilled managers and workers in the U.S. Gulf Coast region and other regions in which we operate is high, and the supply is limited. A lack of qualified personnel, therefore, could adversely affect operating results. Operating, Technological, and Strategic RisksWe have technological and age-obsolescence risk, both with our products and services as well as with our equipment assets. New drilling, completion, and production technologies are constantly evolving. If we are unable to adapt to new advances in technology or replace older assets with new assets, we are at risk of losing customers and market share. In particular, many of our significant equipment assets, including one of our heavy lift barges and certain dive support vessels, are approaching the end of their useful lives, which may adversely affect our ability to serve certain customers. Other equipment, such as a portion of our production testing equipment fleet, may be inadequate to meet the needs of our customers in certain markets. The permanent replacement or upgrade of any of our vessels or equipment will require significant capital. Due to the unique nature of many of these assets, finding a suitable or acceptable replacement may be difficult and/or cost prohibitive. The replacement or enhancement of these assets over the next several years may be necessary in order for us to effectively compete in the current marketplace. We face risks related to our growth strategy. Our growth strategy includes both internal growth and growth through acquisitions. Internal growth may require significant capital expenditures, some of which may become unrecoverable or fail to generate an acceptable level of cash flows. Internal growth also requires financial resources (including the use of available cash or additional long-term debt) and management and personnel resources. Acquisitions also require significant management resources, both at the time of the transaction and during the process of integrating the newly acquired business into our operations. If we overextend our current financial resources by growing too aggressively, we could face liquidity problems or have difficulty obtaining additional financing. Acquisitions could adversely affect our operations if we are unable to successfully integrate the newly acquired companies into our operations, are unable to hire adequate personnel, or are unable to retain existing personnel. We may not be able to consummate future acquisitions on favorable terms. Acquisition or internal growth assumptions developed to support our decisions could prove to be overly optimistic. Future acquisitions by us could result in issuances of equity securities, or the rights associated with the equity securities, which could potentially dilute earnings per share. Future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt or contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. These factors could adversely affect our future operating results and financial position. Our operations involve significant operating risks, and insurance coverage may not be available or cost-effective. We are subject to operating hazards normally associated with the oilfield service industry, including fires, explosions, blowouts, formation collapse, mechanical problems, abnormally pressured formations, and environmental accidents. Environmental accidents could include, but are not limited to: oil spills; gas leaks or ruptures; uncontrollable flows of oil, gas, or well fluids; or discharges of CBFs or toxic gases or other pollutants. These operating hazards may also include injuries to employees and third parties during the performance of our operations. Our operation of marine barges and vessels, heavy equipment, offshore production platforms, chemical manufacturing plants, and the performance of heavy lift and diving services involve particularly high levels of risk. In addition, certain of our employees who perform services on offshore platforms and vessels are covered by the provisions of the Jones Act, the Death on the High Seas Act, and general maritime law. These laws make the liability limits established by state workers’ compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and, instead, permit them or their representatives to pursue actions against us for damages for job-related injuries. Whenever possible, we obtain agreements from customers and suppliers that limit our exposure. However, the occurrence of certain operating hazards, including storms, could result in substantial losses to us due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage, and suspension of operations.16 We have maintained a policy of insuring our risks of operational hazards that we believe is typical in the industry. We believe that the limits of insurance coverage we have purchased are consistent with the exposures we face and the nature of our products and services. Due to economic conditions in the insurance industry, from time to time, we have increased our self-insured retentions for certain policies in order to minimize the increased costs of coverage or we have reduced our limits of insurance coverage for, or not procured, named windstorm coverage. In certain areas of our business, we, from time to time, have elected to assume the risk of loss for specific assets. Due to the sale of substantially all of Maritech's oil and gas properties, obtaining typical operational risk coverage for its remaining properties, such as removal of debris, operators extra expense, control of well, and pollution and cleanup coverage, are not available at economical costs. To the extent we suffer losses or claims that are not covered, or are only partially covered by insurance, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We could incur losses on fixed price contracts. Due to competitive market conditions, a portion of our well abandonment and decommissioning projects may be performed on a lump sum basis. Pursuant to these types of contracts, defined work is delivered for a fixed price, and extra work, which is subject to customer approval, is charged separately. The revenue, cost, and gross profit realized on these types of contracts can vary from the estimated amount because of changes in offshore conditions, increases in the scope of the work to be performed, increased site clearance efforts required, labor and equipment availability, cost and productivity levels, and the performance level of other contractors. In addition, unanticipated events, such as accidents, work delays, significant changes in the condition of platforms or wells, downhole problems, weather, and environmental or other technical issues, could result in significant losses on these types of projects. These variations and risks may result in our experiencing reduced profitability or losses on these types of projects.The valuation of decommissioning liabilities is based on estimated data that may be materially incorrect. Our estimates of future well abandonment and decommissioning liabilities are imprecise and are subject to change due to: changes in the forecasts of the supply, demand, cost and timing of well abandonment and decommissioning services; additional remediation work required on previously completed well abandonment projects; damage to wells and infrastructure caused by hurricanes and other natural events; changes in governmental regulations governing well abandonment and decommissioning work; and other factors. In particular, a portion of the remaining decommissioning liabilities for our Maritech subsidiary relates to offshore production platforms that were toppled and destroyed by hurricanes and the estimates to perform the remaining decommissioning and debris removal work on these properties is particularly imprecise due to the unusual nature of the work to be performed. During 2013, Maritech adjusted its decommissioning liabilities, increasing them by approximately $75.3 million, either for work performed during the year or related to adjusted estimates of the cost of future work to be performed. This adjustment was directly charged to earnings as an operating expense during 2013. If the actual cost of future abandonment and decommissioning work is materially greater than our current estimates, such additional costs could have an adverse effect on future earnings. Weather-Related Risks Certain of our operations are seasonal and depend, in part, on weather conditions. The Offshore Services segment has historically enjoyed its highest vessel utilization rates during the period from April to October, when weather conditions are typically more favorable for offshore activities, and has experienced its lowest utilization rates in the period from November to March. This segment, under certain lump sum and other contracts, may bear the risk of delays caused by adverse weather conditions. In addition, demand for other products and services we provide are subject to seasonal fluctuations, due in part to weather conditions that cannot be predicted. Accordingly, our operating results may vary from quarter to quarter, depending on weather conditions in applicable areas. In certain markets, the Fluids Division’s onshore water management services can be dependent on adequate water supplies that can be accessible to its customers. To the extent severe drought conditions prevent our customers from accessing water supplies, frac water operations may become impractical, and our Fluids Division business may be negatively affected. 17Severe weather, including named windstorms, can cause significant damage and disruption to our businesses. A significant portion of our operations is susceptible to adverse weather conditions in the Gulf of Mexico, including hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions. High winds, storm surge, and turbulent seas can cause significant damage and curtail our operations for extended periods during and after such weather conditions, while damage is being assessed and remediated. Even if we do not experience direct damage from storms, we may experience disruptions in our operations because we are unable to operate or our customers or suppliers may curtail their activities due to damage to their wells, platforms, pipelines, and facilities. From time to time, our onshore operations are also negatively affected by adverse weather conditions, including sustained rain and flooding. A portion of the costs resulting from damages from previous hurricanes has yet to be incurred and may result in significant charges to earnings. During the past four years, Maritech has performed an extensive amount of well intervention, abandonment, decommissioning, debris removal, and platform construction associated with offshore platforms that were destroyed by hurricanes. As of December 31, 2013, Maritech has remaining hurricane damage response work associated with three of the downed platforms, and the estimated cost to perform this remaining abandonment, decommissioning, and debris removal work is approximately $7.7 million net to our interest. Due to the unique nature of the remaining work to be performed, actual costs could greatly exceed these estimates and, depending on the nature of any excess costs incurred, could result in significant charges to earnings in future periods. All of this $7.7 million estimated amount has been accrued as part of Maritech’s decommissioning liabilities. Our estimates of the remaining costs to be incurred may be imprecise. For a further discussion of the remaining costs resulting from damages from the 2005 and 2008 hurricanes, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, “Note B – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Repair Costs and Insurance Recoveries.”We have elected to self-insure windstorm damage to our remaining Maritech assets in the Gulf of Mexico, and hurricane damages could result in significant uninsured losses. Despite the sales of substantially all of Maritech’s oil and gas reserves during 2011 and 2012, we have remaining decommissioning liabilities of approximately $43.3 million associated with offshore platforms and associated wells to be decommissioned and abandoned. We have discontinued insurance coverage for windstorm damage and have elected to self-insure these risks. To the extent the remaining offshore platforms and associated wells are not decommissioned and abandoned prior to a windstorm occurring, Maritech would be exposed to losses from windstorm damages and storms in the future. Depending on the severity and location of the storms, such losses could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation, and cash flows. There can be no assurance that future insurance coverage with favorable premiums and deductibles and maximum coverage amounts will be available in the market or that its cost will be justifiable. There can be no assurance that any windstorm insurance will be adequate to cover losses or liabilities associated with such windstorms. We cannot predict the continued availability of insurance or its availability at premium levels that justify its purchase. Financial Risks Deterioration of our financial ratios could result in covenant defaults under our long-term debt agreements and result in decreased credit availability. As of December 31, 2013, our total debt outstanding was approximately $387.7 million, and our debt to total capital ratio was 36.9%. This debt to total capital ratio excludes approximately $38.8 million of available cash held as of December 31, 2013. Additional growth could result in increased debt levels to support our capital expenditure needs or acquisition activities. Debt service costs related to outstanding long-term debt represent a significant use of our operating cash flow and could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. 18Our long-term debt agreements contain customary covenants and other restrictions and requirements. In addition, the agreements require us to maintain certain financial ratios, including a minimum interest charge coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio, both of which are defined in our revolving bank credit facility agreement. Deterioration of these ratios could result in a default under the agreements. The agreements also include cross-default provisions relating to any other indebtedness we have that is greater than a defined amount. If any such indebtedness is not paid or is accelerated and such event is not remedied in a timely manner, a default will occur under our long-term debt agreements. Any event of default, if not timely remedied, could result in a termination of all commitments of the lenders and an acceleration of any outstanding loans and credit obligations. We may have continuing exposure on abandonment and decommissioning obligations associated with oil and gas properties sold by Maritech. During 2011, in connection with the sale of a significant majority of Maritech’s oil and gas producing properties, the buyers of the properties assumed associated decommissioning liabilities having a value at the time of sale of approximately $122.0 million pursuant to the purchase and sale agreements. For oil and gas properties for which Maritech was previously the operator, the buyer of the properties has now generally become the successor operator and has assumed the financial responsibilities associated with the properties’ operations. However, to the extent that purchasers of these oil and gas properties fail to perform the abandonment and decommissioning work required, and there is insufficient bonding and we have insufficient other security, the previous owners and operators of the properties, including Maritech, may be required to assume responsibility for the abandonment and decommissioning obligation. To the extent Maritech is required to assume or perform a significant portion of the abandonment and decommissioning obligations associated with these sold oil and gas properties, our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected.We are exposed to significant credit risks. We face credit risk associated with the significant amounts of accounts receivable we have with our customers in the energy industry. Many of our customers, particularly those associated with our onshore operations, are small- to medium-sized oil and gas operators that may be more susceptible to fluctuating oil and gas commodity prices or generally increased operating expenses than larger companies. Our ability to collect from our customers may be impacted by adverse changes in the energy industry. As the owner and operator of its oil and gas property interests, Maritech is liable for the proper abandonment and decommissioning of these properties. We have guaranteed a portion of the abandonment and decommissioning liabilities of Maritech. In certain instances, Maritech is entitled to be paid in the future for all or a portion of these obligations by the previous owner of the property once the liability is satisfied. We and Maritech are subject to the risk that the previous owner(s) will be unable to make these future payments. In addition, for certain remaining Maritech properties to be decommissioned or abandoned, the co-owners of such properties are responsible for the payment of their portions of the associated operating expenses and abandonment liabilities. However, if one or more co-owners do not pay their portions, Maritech and any other nondefaulting co-owners may be liable for the defaulted amount. If any required payment is not made by a previous owner or a co-owner and any security is not sufficient to cover the required payment, we could suffer material losses. Our operating results and cash flows for certain of our subsidiaries are subject to foreign currency risk. The operations of certain of our subsidiaries are exposed to fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and certain foreign currencies, particularly the euro, the British pound, the Mexican peso, and the Argentinian peso. Our plans to grow our international operations could cause this exposure from fluctuating currencies to increase. Historically, exchange rates of foreign currencies have fluctuated significantly compared to the U.S. dollar, and this exchange rate volatility is expected to continue. Significant fluctuations in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our balance sheet and results of operations. We are exposed to interest rate risk with regard to our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2013, we and Compressco Partners have a total of $82.7 million outstanding under our respective revolving credit facilities. Our revolving credit facilities consist of floating rate loans that bear interest at an agreed upon percentage rate spread above LIBOR. Accordingly, our cash flows and results of operations could 19be subject to interest rate risk exposure associated with the level of the variable rate debt balance outstanding. We currently are not a party to an interest rate swap contract or other derivative instrument designed to hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuation risk. Our revolving credit facility is scheduled to mature in 2015. Compressco Partners' revolving credit facility is scheduled to mature in 2017. Our Senior Notes bear interest at fixed interest rates and are scheduled to mature at various dates between April 2015 and December 2020. There can be no assurance that the financial market conditions or borrowing terms at the times these existing debt agreements are renegotiated will be as favorable as the current terms and interest rates. Compressco Partners may not generate sufficient cash from operations to make cash distributions to its common and subordinated unitholders. Compressco Partners may not generate sufficient cash from operations to enable it to make cash distributions to holders of common units at the minimum quarterly distribution rate under its cash distribution policy. To the extent Compressco Partners has insufficient available cash to distribute, the distribution shortfall will first be attributed to the subordinated units we hold, resulting in a reduction in our financing cash flows from distributions from Compressco Partners. Any shortfall in quarterly distributions attributed to the subordinated units will not be carried forward in arrears or recovered in future distributions. Legal, Regulatory, and Political Risks Our operations are subject to extensive and evolving U.S. and foreign federal, state and local laws and regulatory requirements that increase our operating costs and expose us to potential fines, penalties, and litigation. Laws and regulations strictly govern our operations relating to: corporate governance, employees, taxation, fees, filing requirements, permitting requirements, importation and exportation restrictions, environmental affairs, health and safety, waste management, and the manufacture, storage, handling, transportation, use, and sale of chemical products. Certain international jurisdictions impose additional restrictions on our activities, such as currency restrictions and restrictions on various labor practices. Our operation and decommissioning of offshore properties are also subject to and affected by various government regulations, including numerous federal and state environmental protection laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are becoming increasinglycomplex and stringent, and compliance is becoming increasingly expensive. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with these regulations, and violators are subject to civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions, or both. Third parties may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance. It is possible that increasingly strict environmental laws, regulations, and enforcement policies could result in substantial costs and liabilities to us and could subject our handling, manufacture, use, reuse, or disposal of substances or pollutants to increased scrutiny. The EPA is performing a study of the environmental impact of hydraulic fracturing, a process used by the U.S. oil and gas industry in the development of certain oil and gas reservoirs. Specifically, the EPA is reviewing the impact of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. Certain environmental and other groups have suggested that additional federal, state and local laws and regulations may be needed to more closely regulate the hydraulic fracturing process. Several states have adopted regulations that require operators to disclose the chemical constituents in hydraulic fracturing fluids. In addition, in December 2012, the EPA announced an update of the progress made pursuant to a study of the effects of hydraulic fracturing on the environment and reported that the full results of the study would be provided in 2014. We cannot predict whether any federal, state or local laws or regulations will be enacted regarding hydraulic fracturing, and, if so, what actions any such laws or regulations would require or prohibit. If additional levels of regulation or permitting requirements were imposed on oil and gas operators through the adoption of new laws and regulations, the domestic demand for certain of our products and services could be decreased or subject to delays, particularly for our Production Testing, Compressco, and Fluids segments. A large portion of the services performed by our Offshore Services segment and all of Maritech’s remaining well abandonment and decommissioning operations are conducted on offshore federal leases and are governed by increasing U.S. government regulations. Government regulations also establish construction requirements for production facilities located on federal offshore leases and govern the plugging and abandonment of wells and the removal of production facilities from these leases. Operators must abide by Idle Iron Guidance regulations that regulate the permanent plugging of nonproducing wells and the dismantling of oil and gas production platforms 20within a certain period of time after they are no longer being used. BSEE oversees the provisions of the Idle Iron Guidance. Under limited circumstances, the BSEE could require Maritech or our Offshore Services segment to suspend or terminate their operations on a federal lease, and both Maritech and our Offshore Services segment could be subject to fines and penalties. We have significant operations that are either ongoing or scheduled to commence in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. At this time, we cannot predict the full impact that other regulatory actions that may be mandated by the federal government may have on our operations or the operations of our customers. Other governmental or regulatory actions could further reduce our revenues and increase our operating costs, including the cost to insure offshore operations, resulting in reduced cash flows and profitability. Our onshore and offshore operations expose us to risks such as the potential for harmful substances escaping into the environment and causing damages or injuries, which could be substantial. Although we maintain general liability and pollution liability insurance, these policies are subject to exceptions and coverage limits. We maintain limited environmental liability insurance covering named locations and environmental risks associated with contract services for oil and gas operations. We could be materially and adversely affected by an enforcement proceeding or a claim that is not covered or is only partially covered by insurance. Because our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, existing or future laws, regulations, treaties, or international agreements that impose additional restrictions on the industry may adversely affect our financial results. Regulators are becoming more focused on air emissions from oil and gas operations, including volatile organic compounds, hazardous air pollutants, and greenhouse gases. In particular, the focus on greenhouse gases and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, could have a negative impact on our financial results if such laws, regulations, treaties, or international agreements reduce the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas or otherwise result in reduced economic activity generally. In addition, such laws, regulations, treaties, or international agreements could result in increased compliance costs, capital spending requirements, or additional operating restrictions for us, which may have a negative impact on our financial results. In addition to potential impacts on our financial results directly or indirectly resulting from climate change legislation or regulations, our financial results also could be negatively affected by climate change-related physical changes or changes in weather patterns.In addition to increasing our risk of environmental liability, the rigorous enforcement of environmental laws and regulations has accelerated the growth of some of the markets we serve. Decreased regulation and enforcement in the future could materially and adversely affect the demand for certain of the services offered by our Offshore Services operations and, therefore, materially and adversely affect our business. Our expansion into foreign countries exposes us to complex regulations and may present us with new obstacles to growth. We plan to continue to grow both in the United States and in foreign countries. We have established operations in, among other countries, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Finland, Ghana, India, Iraq, Mexico, Norway, Saudi Arabia, Sweden, and the United Kingdom, and have an operating joint venture in Libya. Foreign operations carry special risks. Our business in the countries in which we currently operate and those in which we may operate in the future could be limited or disrupted by:•restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States;•the impact of anti-corruption laws and the risk that actions taken by us or others on our behalf may adversely affect our operations and competitive position in the affected countries;•government controls and government actions, such as expropriation of assets and changes in legal and regulatory environments;•import and export license requirements;•political, social, or economic instability;•trade restrictions;•changes in tariffs and taxes; and•our limited knowledge of these markets or our inability to protect our interests. 21We and our affiliates operate in countries where governmental corruption has been known to exist. While we and our subsidiaries are committed to conducting business in a legal and ethical manner, there is a risk of violating either the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K Bribery Act, or laws or legislation promulgated pursuant to the 1997 OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions or other applicable anti-corruption regulations that generally prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. Violation of these laws could result in monetary penalties against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. Foreign governments and agencies often establish permit and regulatory standards different from those in the U.S. If we cannot obtain foreign regulatory approvals, or if we cannot obtain them in a timely manner, our growth and profitability from foreign operations could be adversely affected.Our growing operations in Argentina expose us to the changing economic, legal, and political environments in that country, including the changing regulations over repatriation of cash generated from our operations in Argentina.The current economic, legal, and political environment in Argentina and the recent devaluation of the Argentinian peso have created increased economic instability for foreign investment in Argentina. The Argentinian government is currently attempting to address the current high rate of inflation and the continuing devaluation pressure. Fiscal and monetary expansion in Argentina have led to a devaluation of the Argentinian peso, particularly in late 2013 and early 2014. Additional currency adjustment may be necessary to help boost the current Argentina economy, but may be accompanied by fiscal and monetary tightening, including additional restrictions on the purchase of U.S. dollars in Argentina. As a result of our expanding operations in Argentina, consolidated revenues and operating cash flow generated in Argentina have increased over the past three years. As of December 31, 2013, approximately $1.5 million of our consolidated cash balance is located in Argentina, and the process of repatriating this cash to the U.S. is subject to increasingly complex regulations. There can be no assurances that our growing Argentinian operations will not expose us to the loss of liquidity, foreign exchange losses, and other potential financial impacts. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas our customers produce, while the physical effects of climate change could disrupt production and cause us to incur costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. On December 15, 2009, the EPA published its final findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other “greenhouse gases” (GHGs) present an endangerment to public health and the environment, because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings allow the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act (CAA). Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the CAA. The EPA rules regulate GHG emissions under the CAA and require a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and from certain large stationary sources as well as requiring so-called “green” completions at hydraulically fractured natural gas wells beginning in 2015. The EPA also requires the annual reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States, including petroleum refineries, as well as from certain oil and gas production facilities. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our facilities and operations could require us to incur costs. Further, Congress has considered and almost one-half of the states have adopted legislation that seeks to control or reduce emissions of GHGs from a wide range of sources. Any such legislation could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas our customers produce and, in turn, demand for our products and services. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our operations and cause us to incur costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. 22Our proprietary rights may be violated or compromised, which could damage our operations. We own numerous patents, patent applications, and unpatented trade secret technologies in the U.S. and certain foreign countries. There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to deter misappropriation of these rights. In addition, independent third parties may develop competitive or superior technologies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 