Risk Factors. Forward Looking Statements Certain information included in this report, other materials filed or to be filed with the SEC, as well as information included in oral statements or other written statement made or to be made by us contain or incorporate by reference certain statements (other than statements of historical fact) that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. When used herein, the words “budget,” “budgeted,” “assumes,” “should,” “goal,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “believes,” “seeks,” “plans,” “intends,” “projects” or “targets” and similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Where any forward-looking statement includes a statement of the assumptions or bases underlying such forward-looking statement, we caution that while we believe these assumptions or bases to be reasonable and to be made in good faith, assumed facts or bases almost always vary from actual results, and the difference between assumed facts or bases and actual results could be material, depending on the circumstances. It is important to note that actual results could differ materially from those projected by such forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable and such forward-looking statements are based upon the best data available at the date this report is filed with the SEC, we cannot assure you that such expectations will prove correct. Factors that could cause our results to differ materially from the results discussed in such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, 10 the following: activity levels for oil and gas drilling, completion, workover, production and abandonment activities; volatility of oil and gas prices; foreign currency risks; operating risks inherent in oil and gas production; weather; our ability to implement our business strategy; uncertainties about estimates of reserves; environmental risks; estimates of hurricane repair costs; and risks related to our foreign operations. All such forward-looking statements in this document are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements in this paragraph, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. Certain Business Risks We have identified the following important risk factors, which could affect our actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from any such results that might be projected, forecasted, or estimated by us in this report. Market Risks: Our operations are materially dependent on levels of oil and gas well drilling, completion, workover, production, and abandonment activities, both in the United States and internationally. Activity levels for oil and gas drilling, completion, workover, production and abandonment are affected both by short-term and long-term trends in oil and gas prices and supply and demand balance, among other factors. Oil and gas prices and, therefore, the levels of well drilling, completion, workover and production activities, tend to fluctuate. Worldwide military, political, and economic events, including initiatives by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and increasing demand in other large world economies, have contributed to, and are likely to continue to contribute to, price volatility. In addition, a prolonged slowdown of the U.S. and/or world economy may contribute to an eventual downward trend in the demand and, correspondingly, the price of oil and natural gas. The development of additional competing non-oil and gas energy supplies, efforts to improve energy conservation, and improvements in the energy efficiency of plants, equipment, and devices may also reduce oil and gas consumption. Other factors affecting our operating activity levels include the cost of exploring for and producing oil and gas, the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves, and the remaining recoverable reserves in the basins in which we operate. A large concentration of our operating activities is located in the onshore and offshore region of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Our revenues and profitability are particularly dependent upon oil and gas industry activity and spending levels in the Gulf of Mexico region. Our operations may also be affected by technological advances, interest rates and cost of capital, tax policies, and overall worldwide economic activity. Adverse changes in any of these other factors may depress the levels of well drilling, completion, workover and production activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Our oil and gas revenues and cash flows are subject to commodity price risk. Our revenues from oil and gas production are increasing significantly. Therefore, we have increased market risk exposure in the pricing applicable to our oil and gas production. Realized pricing is primarily driven by the prevailing worldwide price for crude oil and spot prices in the U.S. natural gas market. Historically, prices received for oil and gas production have been volatile and unpredictable, and this price volatility is expected to continue. Significant declines in prices for oil and natural gas could have a material effect on our results of operations and quantities of reserves recoverable on an economic basis. Our risk management activities involve the use of derivative financial instruments, such as swap agreements, to hedge the impact of market price risk exposures for a portion of our oil and gas production. We are exposed to the volatility of oil and gas prices for the portion of our oil and gas production that is not hedged. 11 Profitability of our operations is dependent on numerous factors beyond our control. Our operating results in general, and gross margin in particular, are functions of market conditions and the product and service mix sold in any period. Other factors, such as unit volumes, heightened price competition, changes in sales and distribution channels, availability of skilled labor and contract services, shortages in raw materials due to untimely supplies or ability to obtain supplies at reasonable prices may also continue to affect the cost of sales and the fluctuation of gross margin in future periods. We encounter and expect to continue to encounter intense competition in the sale of our products and services. We compete with numerous companies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other related resources than us. To the extent competitors offer comparable products or services at lower prices, or higher quality and more cost-effective products or services, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Certain competitors may also be better positioned to acquire producing oil and gas properties or other businesses for which we compete. We are dependent upon third party suppliers for specific products and equipment necessary to provide certain of our products and services. We sell a variety of CBFs, including brominated CBFs, such as calcium bromide, zinc bromide, sodium bromide, and other brominated products, some of which we manufacture and some of which are purchased from third parties. We also sell calcium chloride, as a CBF for use in oil and gas wells and in other forms and for other applications. Sales of calcium chloride and brominated products contribute significantly to our revenues. In our manufacture of calcium chloride, we use hydrochloric acid and other raw materials purchased from third parties. During 2005, one of our main suppliers announced that it had permanently ceased production of a raw material used in our manufacture of calcium chloride, which has resulted in the decreased production output at our Lake Charles calcium chloride plant. In our manufacture of brominated products, we use bromine, hydrobromic acid, and other raw materials, including various forms of zinc, that are purchased from third parties. We also acquire brominated products from several third party suppliers. If we are unable to acquire the brominated products, bromine, hydrobromic or hydrochloric acid, zinc, or any other raw material supplies at reasonable prices for a prolonged period, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Some of the well abandonment and decommissioning services performed by our WA&D Division require the use of vessels and services which must be provided by third parties. We lease equipment and obtain services from certain providers, but these are subject to availability at reasonable prices. The fabrication of wellhead compressors by our Production Enhancement Division’s Compressco operation requires the purchase of many types of components that we obtain from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on these suppliers exposes us to the risk of price increases, inferior component quality or an inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components in a timely manner. Our Compressco operation’s profitability or future growth may be adversely affected due to our dependence on these key suppliers. Our operating results and cash flows for certain of our subsidiaries are subject to foreign currency risk. The operations of certain of our subsidiaries are exposed to fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and certain foreign currencies. Our plans to grow our international operations could cause this exposure from fluctuating currencies to increase. In September 2004, related to the acquisition of our European calcium chloride assets, we entered into long-term Euro-denominated borrowings, as we believe such borrowings provide a natural currency hedge for our Euro-based operating activities. Historically, exchange rates of foreign currencies have fluctuated significantly compared to the U.S. dollar, and this exchange rate volatility is expected to continue. Significant fluctuations in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our balance sheet and results of operations. 12 We are exposed to interest rate risk with regard to a portion of our outstanding indebtedness. As of December 31, 2006, $154.2 million of our outstanding long-term debt consists of floating rate loans, which bear interest at an agreed upon percentage rate spread above LIBOR. Accordingly, our cash flows and results of operations are subject to interest rate risk exposure associated with the level of the variable rate debt balance outstanding. We currently are not a party to an interest rate swap contract or other derivative instrument designed to hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuation risk. Operating Risks: We may incur well intervention and platform debris removal costs as a result of 2005 hurricanes that are not covered under our insurance policies. We incurred significant damage to certain of our assets during the third quarter of 2005 as a result of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. In particular, our Maritech subsidiary suffered varying levels of damage to the majority of its offshore oil and gas producing platforms, and three of its platforms and one of its production facilities were completely destroyed. A majority of our damaged assets, with the exception of the destroyed Maritech assets, have been repaired or are in the final stages of being repaired, and have resumed operation. With regard to the destroyed offshore platforms, well intervention work on certain wells associated with two of the destroyed platforms continued throughout most of 2006, and as of December 31, 2006, approximately $40.5 million of well intervention costs have been incurred, approximately $12.6 million has been reimbursed to us pursuant to our applicable insurance policies, and approximately $27.9 million is included in accounts receivable to be reimbursed. Wells associated with the third destroyed platform are currently still being assessed. Such damage assessment, well intervention, and subsequent debris removal efforts will continue into 2007 and beyond. The timing of the collection of future reimbursements of covered well intervention or removal of debris costs is beyond our control, and may result in a significant usage of our working capital until such reimbursements are received. Once completed, we expect that total storm related well intervention, debris removal, and other costs associated with the three destroyed Maritech platforms will total approximately $72 to $96 million. The portion of this estimate related to well intervention costs exceeds the maximum coverage amount for such costs provided pursuant to our applicable insurance policy. Accordingly, during 2006, we increased Maritech’s decommissioning liabilities associated with the three destroyed platforms by approximately $11.2 million for well intervention costs expected to be incurred in excess of maximum coverage amounts, and approximately $5.2 million was charged to operating expense primarily as a result of this increase. In addition, our insurance claims adjuster has advised that the underwriters do not yet have sufficient information to conclude that well intervention costs for certain of the damaged wells will qualify as covered costs, and the underwriters have questioned whether certain well intervention costs that have been incurred are covered under the policy. If a significant amount of well intervention costs incurred are not covered pursuant to our insurance policy, or if we incur total well intervention costs in excess of our estimates, our working capital and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have received from underwriters the advance payment of an amount equal to the policy limit for removal of debris associated with the three destroyed platforms. In June 2006, the underwriters questioned whether there is additional coverage provided for the cost of the removal of these platforms in excess of the policy limit under an endorsement we obtained in August 2005. The endorsement provides additional coverage for debris removal and other costs up to a maximum limit of $20 million per storm. We have provided additional requested documentation to the underwriters’ claims adjusters to support the coverage under this endorsement. While we have yet to incur costs for the removal of the destroyed platforms, these costs, as well as other costs covered under the endorsement, could equal or possibly exceed the policy maximum limit under the endorsement. If all or a portion of these costs are not reimbursed, or if the total debris removal and other costs exceed the policy maximum, our working capital and results of operations could be adversely affected. 13 Our operations involve significant operating risks, and insurance coverage may not be available or cost effective. We are subject to operating hazards normally associated with the oilfield service industry and offshore oil and gas production operations, including fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering, mechanical problems, abnormally pressured formations, and environmental accidents. Environmental accidents could include, but are not limited to oil spills, gas leaks or ruptures, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids, or other discharges of toxic gases or other pollutants. We are particularly susceptible to adverse weather conditions in the Gulf of Mexico, including hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions. Damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could potentially cause us to curtail both service and production operations for significant periods of time until damage can be assessed and repaired. Moreover, even if we do not experience direct damage from these storms, we may experience disruptions in our operations because customers may curtail their development activities due to damage to their platforms, pipelines, and other related facilities. These hazards also include injuries to employees and third parties during the performance of our operations. Our operation of marine vessels, heavy equipment, and offshore production platforms involves a particularly high level of risk. In addition, certain of our employees who perform services on offshore platforms and vessels are covered by the provisions of the Jones Act, the Death on the High Seas Act and general maritime law. These laws make the liability limits established by state workers’ compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and, instead, permit them or their representatives to pursue actions against us for damages for job-related injuries. Whenever possible, we obtain agreements from customers and suppliers that limit our exposure. However, the occurrence of certain operating hazards, including storms, could result in substantial losses to us due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage, and suspension of operations. We have maintained a policy of insuring our risks of operational hazards that we believe is typical in the industry. Limits of insurance coverage we have purchased are consistent with the exposures we face and the nature of our products and services. Due to economic conditions in the insurance industry, from time to time, we have increased our self-insured retentions and deductibles for certain policies in order to minimize the increased costs of coverage. In certain areas of our business, we from time to time have elected to assume the risk of loss for specific assets. To the extent we suffer losses or claims that are not covered, or are only partially covered by insurance, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Following the hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico region during the third quarter of 2005, the cost of the insurance coverage we have typically purchased in the past increased dramatically. Current coverage premiums now cost several times more than they did historically, particularly for offshore oil and gas production operations. Insurance coverage with favorable deductible and maximum coverage amounts may not be available in the market, or its cost may not be justifiable. Our insurance coverage today includes higher deductibles and lower maximum coverage limits than in prior years. There can be no assurance that any insurance will be adequate to cover losses or liabilities associated with operational hazards. We cannot predict the continued availability of insurance, or its availability at premium levels that justify its purchase. Our operations, particularly those conducted offshore, are seasonal and depend, in part, on weather conditions. The WA&D Division has historically enjoyed its highest vessel utilization rates during the period from April to October, when weather conditions are more favorable for offshore activities, and has experienced its lowest utilization rates in the period from November to March. This Division, under certain turnkey and other contracts, may bear the risk of delays caused by adverse weather conditions. Storms can also cause our oil and gas producing properties to be shut-in. In addition, demand for other products and services we provide are subject to seasonal fluctuations, due in part to weather conditions that cannot be predicted. Accordingly, our operating results may vary from quarter to quarter depending on weather conditions in applicable areas of the United States and in international regions. 14 We could incur losses on well abandonment and decommissioning projects. Due to competitive market conditions, a portion of our well abandonment and decommissioning projects may be performed on a turnkey, modified turnkey, or fixed price dayrate basis, where defined work is delivered for a fixed price and extra work, which is subject to customer approval, is charged separately. The revenue, cost, and gross profit realized on these types of contracts can vary from the estimated amount because of changes in offshore conditions, increases in the scope of site clearance efforts required, labor and equipment availability, cost and productivity levels, and the performance level of other contractors. In addition, unanticipated events such as accidents, work delays, significant changes in the condition of platforms or wells, downhole problems, environmental and other technical issues could result in significant losses on these types of projects. These variations and risks may result in us experiencing reduced profitability or losses on these types of projects or on well abandonment and decommissioning work for our Maritech subsidiary. We face risks related to our growth strategy. Our growth strategy includes both internal growth and growth through acquisitions. Internal growth may require significant capital expenditure investments, some of which may become unrecoverable or fail to generate an acceptable level of cash flows. Internal growth may also require financial resources (including the use of available cash or the incurrence of additional long-term debt) and management and personnel resources. Acquisitions also require significant financial and management resources, both at the time of the transaction and during the process of integrating the newly acquired business into our operations. Our operating results could be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully integrate such new companies into our operations or are unable to hire adequate personnel. We may not be able to consummate future acquisitions on favorable terms. Additionally, any such recent or future acquisition transactions by us may not achieve favorable financial results. Future acquisitions by us could also result in issuances of equity securities, or the rights associated with the equity securities, which could potentially dilute earnings per share. Future acquisitions could also result in the incurrence of additional debt or contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. These factors could adversely affect our future operating results and financial position. Our expansion into foreign countries exposes us to unfamiliar regulations and may expose us to new obstacles to growth. We plan to grow both in the United States and in foreign countries. We have established operations in, among other countries, the United Kingdom, Norway, Finland, Sweden, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, and Nigeria and have entered into joint ventures in Saudi Arabia and The Netherlands. Foreign operations carry special risks. Our business in the countries in which we currently operate and those in which we may operate in the future could be limited or disrupted by: • government controls; • import and export license requirements; • political, social or economic instability, particularly in Nigeria and Venezuela; • trade restrictions; • changes in tariffs and taxes; • restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; and • our limited knowledge of these markets or our inability to protect our interests. Foreign governments and agencies often establish permit and regulatory standards different from those in the U.S. If we cannot obtain foreign regulatory approvals, or if we cannot obtain them when we expect, our growth and profitability from international operations could be limited. The acquisition of oil and gas properties and related well abandonment and decommissioning liabilities is based on estimated data that may be materially incorrect. In conjunction with our purchase of oil and gas properties, we perform detailed due diligence review processes that we believe are consistent with industry practices. These acquired properties are generally in the later stages of their economic lives and require a thorough review of the expected cash 15 flows acquired along with the associated abandonment obligations. The process of estimating natural gas and oil reserves is complex, requiring significant decisions and assumptions to be made in evaluating the available geological, geophysical, engineering, and economic data for each reservoir. As a result, these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, cash flows, development expenditures, operating and abandonment expenses, and quantities of recoverable natural gas and oil reserves may vary substantially from those initially estimated by us. Also, in conjunction with the purchase of certain oil and gas properties, we have assumed our proportionate share of the related well abandonment and decommissioning liabilities after performing detailed estimating procedures, analysis, and engineering studies. If actual costs of abandonment and decommissioning are materially greater than original estimates, such additional costs could have an adverse effect on earnings. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace, and the continued ability to attract new employees. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain skilled employees. The delivery of our products and services require personnel with specialized skills and experience. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. The demand for skilled workers in the Gulf Coast region is high, and the supply is limited. Changes in personnel, therefore, could adversely affect operating results. Financial Risks: We have significant long-term debt outstanding. As of December 31, 2006, our long-term debt outstanding has increased to approximately $336.4 million, and as of February 28, 2007, this amount was approximately $301.3 million. Additional growth could result in increased debt levels in order to support our capital expenditure needs or acquisition activities. Debt service costs related to outstanding long-term debt represent a significant use of our operating cash flow and could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. Our long-term debt agreements contain customary covenants and other restrictions and requirements. In addition, the agreements require us to maintain certain financial ratio requirements. Significant deterioration of these ratios could result in a default under the agreements. The agreements also include cross-default provisions relating to any other indebtedness we have that is greater than a defined amount. If any such indebtedness is not paid or is accelerated and such event is not remedied in a timely manner, a default will occur under the long-term debt agreements. Any event of default, if not timely remedied, could result in a termination of all commitments of the lenders and an acceleration of any outstanding loans and credit obligations. Certain of our businesses are exposed to significant credit risks. The Company faces concentrations of credit risk associated with its significant amounts of accounts receivable with companies in the energy industry. Many of its customers, particularly those associated with its onshore operations, may be small to medium sized oil and gas operating companies who may be susceptible to fluctuating oil and gas commodity prices or generally increased operating expenses. The Company’s ability to collect from its customers may be impacted by adverse changes in the energy industry. Maritech purchases interests in certain end-of-life oil and gas properties in connection with the operations of our WA&D Division. As the owner and operator of these interests, Maritech is liable for the proper abandonment and decommissioning of the wells, platforms, pipelines and the site clearance related to these properties. We have guaranteed a portion of the abandonment and decommissioning liabilities of Maritech. In certain instances, Maritech is entitled to be paid in the future for all or a portion of these obligations by the previous owner of the property once the liability is satisfied. We and Maritech are subject to the risk that the previous owner(s) will be unable to make these future payments. We and Maritech attempt to minimize this risk by analyzing the creditworthiness of the previous owner(s), and others who may be legally obligated to pay in the event the previous owner(s) are unable to do so, and obtaining guarantees, bonds, letters of credit, or other forms of security when they are deemed necessary. In addition, if Maritech acquires less than 100% of the working interest in a property, its co-owners are responsible for the payment of their portions of the associated operating expenses and 16 abandonment liabilities. However, if one or more co-owners do not pay their portions, Maritech and any other nondefaulting co-owners may be liable for the defaulted amount. If any required payment is not made by a previous owner or a co-owner and any security is not sufficient to cover the required payment, we could suffer material losses. Maritech’s estimates of its oil and gas reserves and related future cash flows may be significantly incorrect. Maritech’s estimates of oil and gas reserve information are prepared in accordance with Rule 4-10 of Regulation S-X, and reflect only estimates of the accumulation of oil and gas and the economic recoverability of those volumes. Maritech’s future production, revenues and expenditures with respect to such oil and gas reserves will likely be different from estimates, and any material differences may negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As a result, Maritech has experienced and may continue to experience significant revisions to its reserve estimates. Oil and gas reservoir analysis is a subjective process which involves estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows associated with such reserves necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions. Because all reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may prove to differ materially from that assumed in estimating reserves: • the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered; • the production and operating costs incurred; • the amount and timing of future development and abandonment expenditures; and • future oil and gas sales prices. Furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flow based on the same available data. The estimated discounted future net cash flows described in this Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2006 should not be considered as the current market value of the estimated oil and gas proved reserves attributable to Maritech’s properties. Such estimates are based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, in accordance with SEC requirements, while future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. The SEC requires that we report our oil and natural gas reserves using the price as of the last day of the year. Using lower values in forecasting reserves will result in a shorter life being given to producing oil and natural gas properties because such properties, as their production levels are estimated to decline, will reach an uneconomic limit, with lower prices, at an earlier date. There can be no assurance that a decrease in oil and gas prices or other differences in Maritech’s estimates of its reserves will not adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. Our accounting for oil and gas operations may result in volatile earnings. We account for our oil and gas operations using the successful efforts method. Costs incurred to drill and equip development wells, including unsuccessful development wells, are capitalized. Costs related to unsuccessful exploratory wells are expensed as incurred. All capitalized costs are accumulated and recorded separately for each field, and are depleted on a unit-of-production basis, based on the estimated remaining equivalent proved oil and gas reserves of each field. On a field by field basis, our oil and gas properties are assessed for impairment in value whenever indicators become evident, with any impairment charged to expense. Under the successful efforts method of accounting, we are exposed to the risk that the value of a particular property (field) would have to be written down or written off if an impairment were present. 17 Legal/Regulatory Risks: Our operations are subject to extensive and evolving U.S. and foreign federal, state and local laws and regulatory requirements that increase our operating costs and expose us to potential fines, penalties, and litigation. Laws and regulations strictly govern our operations relating to: corporate governance, environmental affairs, health and safety, waste management, and the manufacture, storage, handling, transportation, use, and sale of chemical products. Our operation and decommissioning of offshore properties are also subject to and affected by various types of government regulation, including numerous federal and state environmental protection laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex and stringent, and compliance is becoming increasingly expensive. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with these regulations, and violators are subject to civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions, or both. Third parties may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance. It is possible that increasingly strict environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies could result in substantial costs and liabilities to us and could subject our handling, manufacture, use, reuse, or disposal of substances or pollutants to increased scrutiny. A large portion of Maritech’s oil and gas operations are conducted on federal leases that are administered by the MMS and are required to comply with the regulations and order promulgated by the MMS under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act. MMS regulations also establish construction requirements for production facilities located on federal offshore leases and govern the plugging and abandonment of wells and the removal of production facilities from these leases. Under limited circumstances, the MMS could require us to suspend or terminate our operations on a federal lease. The MMS also establishes the basis for royalty payments due under federal oil and natural gas leases through regulations issued under applicable statutory authority. Our business exposes us to risks such as the potential for harmful substances escaping into the environment and causing damages or injuries, which could be substantial. Although we maintain general liability and pollution liability insurance, these policies are subject to coverage limits. We maintain limited environmental liability insurance covering named locations and environmental risks associated with contract services for oil and gas operations, refinery waste treatment operations, and for oil and gas producing properties. The extent of this coverage is consistent with our other insurance programs. We could be materially and adversely affected by an enforcement proceeding or a claim that is not covered or is only partially covered by insurance. In addition to increasing our risk of environmental liability, the rigorous enforcement of environmental laws and regulations has accelerated the growth of some of the markets we serve. Decreased regulation and enforcement in the future could materially and adversely affect the demand for the types of systems offered by our process services operations and the services offered by our well abandonment and decommissioning operations and, therefore, materially and adversely affect our business. Our proprietary rights may be violated or compromised, which could damage our operations. We own numerous patents, patent applications and unpatented trade secret technologies in the U.S. and certain foreign countries. There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to deter misappropriation of these rights. In addition, independent third parties may develop competitive or superior technologies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 18 Item 