Item 1A. Risk Factors. Forward Looking Statements Certain information included in this report, other materials filed or to be filed with the SEC, as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us contain or incorporate by reference certain statements (other than statements of historical fact) that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. When used herein, the words “budget,” “budgeted,” “assumes,” “should,” “goal,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “could,” “believes,” “seeks,” “plans,” “intends,” “projects” or “targets” and similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Where any forward-looking statement includes a statement of the assumptions or bases underlying such forward-looking statement, we caution that, while we believe these assumptions or bases to be reasonable and to be made in good faith, assumed facts or bases almost always vary from actual results, and the difference between assumed facts or bases and actual results could be material, depending on the circumstances. It is important to note that actual results could differ materially from those projected by such forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable and such forward-looking statements are based upon the best data available at the date this report is filed with the SEC, we cannot assure you that such expectations will prove correct. Factors that could cause our results to differ materially from the results discussed in such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: activity levels for oil and gas drilling, completion, workover, production, and abandonment activities; volatility of oil and gas prices; general economic and business conditions including the impact the current economic uncertainty may have on us or our customers; foreign currency risks; operating risks inherent in oil and gas production; weather; our ability to implement our business strategy; uncertainties about estimates of reserves; environmental risks; estimates of hurricane repair costs; and risks related to our foreign operations. All such forward-looking statements in this document are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements in this paragraph, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. Certain Business Risks Although it is not possible to identify all of the risks we encounter, we have identified the following important risk factors which could affect our actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from any such results that might be projected, forecasted, or estimated by us in this report. Market Risks: The demand for our products and services is affected by the current global financial crisis. The demand for our products and services are materially dependent on levels of oil and gas well drilling, completion, workover, production, and abandonment activities, both in the United States and internationally. Such activity levels have decreased as a result of the recent decline in energy consumption and uncertainty of the capital markets caused by the current global financial crisis. Decreased energy consumption has resulted in a significant decrease in energy prices during the last half of 2008 and continuing into 2009. This decline in energy prices has negatively affected the operating cash flows and capital plans of many of our customers, as well as our Maritech subsidiary, which has negatively impacted the demand for many of our products and services. 11 The consequences of a prolonged economic recession may include a further decrease in economic activity, including oil and gas industry spending levels, for an extended period of time. This decrease in economic activity would negatively affect both the demand for many of our products and services as well as the prices we charge for these products and services which would continue to affect our revenues and future growth. Many of our customers finance their drilling and production operations through third-party lenders. The reduced availability and increased cost of borrowing could cause our customers to reduce their spending on drilling programs, thereby reducing demand and potentially resulting in lower pricing for our products and services. Continued instability in the capital markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, also may continue to affect the cost of capital and the ability to raise capital, both for us and our customers. During times when the oil or natural gas markets weaken, many of our customers are more likely to experience a downturn in their financial condition. Current economic conditions may be exacerbated by insufficient financial sector liquidity leading to additional constraints on the operating cash flows of our customers, further limiting their activities and also potentially impacting their ability to pay us in a timely manner, which could result in increased customer bankruptcies and may lead to increased uncollectible receivables. Further, an increasing number of financial institutions and insurance companies have reported deterioration in their financial condition. If any of our lenders, insurers or other financial institutions are unable to fulfill their obligations under our various credit agreements, insurance policies and other contracts, and we are unable to find suitable replacements at a reasonable cost, our results of operations, liquidity and cash flows could be adversely impacted. Our oil and gas revenues and cash flows are subject to continued price risk. Our revenues from oil and gas production represent approximately 20.5% of our total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. Therefore, we have significant direct market risk exposure in the pricing of our oil and gas production. Our realized pricing is primarily driven by the prevailing worldwide price for crude oil and spot prices in the U.S. natural gas market and the portion of our oil and gas production that is hedged. During the first half of 2008, and prior to the impact of our derivative hedges, crude oil and natural gas prices received for Maritech’s production averaged $114.01 and $10.29, respectively. During December 2008, these crude oil and natural gas prices received averaged $32.45 and $6.19, respectively. This price volatility is expected to continue. Significant further declines in prices for oil and natural gas could have a material affect on our results of operations and quantities of reserves recoverable on an economic basis. Our risk management activities involve the use of derivative financial instruments, such as swap agreements, to hedge the impact of market price risk exposures for a portion of our oil and gas production. This means that a portion of our production is sold at a fixed price as a shield against price declines that could occur in the market. These hedging activities limit our upside potential from oil and gas price increases, but also limit our downside risk of decreasing oil and gas prices. In addition, we are exposed to the volatility of oil and gas prices for the portion of our oil and gas production that is not hedged. Oil and gas prices and, therefore, the levels of well drilling, completion, workover, and production activities, tend to fluctuate. Worldwide military, political, and economic events, including initiatives by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and increasing or decreasing demand in other large world economies, have contributed to, and are likely to continue to contribute to, price volatility. The development of additional competing non-oil and gas energy supplies, efforts to improve energy conservation, and improvements in the energy efficiency of vehicles, plants, equipment, and devices may also reduce oil and gas consumption. The profitability of our operations is dependent on other numerous factors beyond our control. Our operating results in general, and gross profit in particular, are functions of market conditions and the product and service mix sold in any period. Other factors, such as heightened price competition, changes in sales and distribution channels, availability of skilled labor and contract services, shortages in raw materials due to untimely supplies, or inability to obtain supplies at reasonable prices may also continue to affect the cost of sales and the fluctuation of gross margin in future periods. 12 Other factors affecting our operating activity levels include the cost of exploring for and producing oil and gas, the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves, and the remaining recoverable reserves in the basins in which we operate. A large concentration of our operating activities is located in the onshore and offshore region of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Our revenues and profitability are particularly dependent upon oil and gas industry activity and spending levels in the Gulf of Mexico region. Our operations may also be affected by technological advances, interest rates and cost of capital, tax policies, and overall worldwide economic activity. Adverse changes in any of these other factors may depress the levels of well drilling, completion, workover, and production activity and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our products and services, thereby having a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. We encounter and expect to continue to encounter intense competition in the sale of our products and services. We compete with numerous companies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other related resources than we have. To the extent competitors offer comparable products or services at lower prices, or higher quality and more cost-effective products or services, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Certain competitors may also be better positioned to acquire producing oil and gas properties or other businesses for which we compete. We are dependent upon third party suppliers for specific products and equipment necessary to provide certain of our products and services. We sell a variety of CBFs, including brominated CBFs, such as calcium bromide, zinc bromide, sodium bromide, and other brominated products, some of which we manufacture and some of which are purchased from third parties. We also sell calcium chloride as a CBF for use in oil and gas wells and in other forms and for other applications. Sales of calcium chloride and brominated products contribute significantly to our revenues. In our manufacture of calcium chloride, we use hydrochloric acid and other raw materials purchased from third parties. We purchase raw materials utilized by our Lake Charles calcium chloride facility from a variety of sources, although supply constraints have resulted in this facility operating at less than full capacity. In our manufacture of brominated products, we use bromine, hydrobromic acid, and other raw materials, including various forms of zinc, which are purchased from third parties. We rely on Chemtura as a supplier of raw materials, both for our brominated products needs as well as for the needs of our new El Dorado, Arkansas calcium chloride plant beginning later in 2009. We also acquire brominated products from several third party suppliers. If we are unable to acquire the brominated products, bromine, hydrobromic or hydrochloric acid, zinc, or any other supplies of raw material at reasonable prices for a prolonged period, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Some of the well abandonment and decommissioning services performed by our Offshore Division require the use of vessels and services provided by third parties. We lease equipment and obtain services from certain providers, but these are subject to availability at reasonable prices. The fabrication of GasJackTM wellhead compressor units by our Compressco subsidiary requires the purchase of many types of components that we obtain from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on these suppliers exposes us to the risk of price increases, inferior component quality, or an inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components in a timely manner. Our Compressco operation’s profitability or future growth may be adversely affected due to our dependence on these key suppliers. Our operating results and cash flows for certain of our subsidiaries are subject to foreign currency risk. The operations of certain of our subsidiaries are exposed to fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and certain foreign currencies. Our plans to grow our international operations could cause this exposure from fluctuating currencies to increase. In particular, our growing operations in Brazil, as a result of a long-term contract with Petrobras entered into during 2008, will subject us to increased foreign currency risk in that country. Historically, exchange rates of foreign currencies have fluctuated significantly compared to the U.S. dollar, and this exchange rate volatility is expected to continue. Significant fluctuations in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our balance sheet and results of operations. 13 We are exposed to interest rate risk with regard to a portion of our outstanding indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, $97.4 million of our outstanding long-term debt consists of floating rate loans, which bear interest at an agreed upon percentage rate spread above LIBOR. Accordingly, our cash flows and results of operations are subject to interest rate risk exposure associated with the level of the variable rate debt balance outstanding. We currently are not a party to an interest rate swap contract or other derivative instrument designed to hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuation risk. Operating Risks: We will expend significant costs to repair damage as a result of 2005 and 2008 hurricanes, and a large portion of these costs may not be covered under our insurance policies. We incurred significant damage to certain of our onshore and offshore operating equipment and facilities during the third quarters of 2005 and 2008 as a result of hurricanes. In particular, our Maritech subsidiary suffered varying levels of damage to the majority of its offshore oil and gas producing platforms, and six of its platforms were toppled and destroyed by these storms. In addition, two production facilities located in inland waters were destroyed, one of which was reconstructed during 2007. A majority of our damaged assets, with the exception of the destroyed Maritech platforms, have been repaired or are in the final stages of being repaired, and have resumed operation. We currently estimate that the repairs to the remaining partially damaged platforms and assets will cost from $6 million to $8 million net to our interest before insurance recoveries, and these costs will be incurred over the next several months. With regard to the destroyed offshore platforms, however, well intervention efforts have been performed on certain wells associated with two of the platforms destroyed in 2005, and we are assessing the extent of well intervention work required on wells associated with the four additional destroyed platforms. In addition, we have yet to incur costs for debris removal associated with any of the destroyed offshore platforms, but are also assessing these costs. Such damage assessment, well intervention, and subsequent debris removal efforts could continue over the next several years. We estimate that future well intervention and abandonment efforts associated with the destroyed platforms and production facility, including costs to remove debris, reconstruct destroyed structures, and redrill certain associated wells, will cost approximately $140 to $190 million net to our interest before any insurance recoveries. Due to the non-routine nature of the well intervention and debris removal efforts, however, our estimates of the future cost to perform this work may be understated, possibly significantly. While we believe we will be reimbursed for a majority of the cost of the damages incurred in excess of policy deductibles pursuant to our various insurance policies, including the well intervention and debris removal costs to be incurred by Maritech, there can be no assurances that all of such expected reimbursements will be collected. Related to certain well intervention costs incurred in connection with the 2005 hurricanes, our insurance underwriters have continued to maintain that costs for certain of the damaged wells do not qualify as covered costs and that certain well intervention costs for qualifying wells are not covered under the policy for that period. In addition, the underwriters have also maintained that there is no additional coverage provided under an endorsement we obtained in August 2005 for the cost of removal of the platforms destroyed in 2005 or for the repair of other 2005 damage on certain properties in excess of the insured values provided by our property damage policy for that period. In late 2007, we filed a lawsuit against the underwriters, adjuster, and one of our brokers in a further attempt to collect the reimbursement for these well intervention and repair costs incurred as well as future well intervention and debris removal costs to be incurred resulting from the 2005 hurricanes. We have begun to perform the initial phases of the well intervention work related to the platforms destroyed by the 2008 hurricanes. Despite our confidence that the repair, well intervention, and debris removal costs will qualify as covered costs pursuant to our insurance coverage, a portion of these costs may not be reimbursed. Despite our efforts to pursue our rights legally, we may not collect any of the contested well intervention and debris removal costs incurred and to be incurred as a result of the 2005 storms. Also, the timing of the collection of any future reimbursements is beyond our control, and we will continue to use a significant amount of our working capital until such reimbursements are received. In addition, a portion of the reimbursements ultimately received may be offset by legal and other administrative costs incurred in our attempts to collect them. Our estimates of the remaining costs to be incurred may be imprecise. To the extent actual future costs exceed the policy maximum for these costs, such excess costs would not be reimbursable. 14 Our oil and gas production levels continue to be affected by the 2008 hurricanes. Our operating cash flows also continue to be affected by the interruption in Maritech’s oil and gas production as a result of damage to offshore platforms and pipelines caused by the 2008 hurricanes. Approximately 32.6% of Maritech’s oil production and 17.0% of its natural gas production from fields producing before the storms is currently shut-in. One of the destroyed offshore platforms has resulted in the loss of production from a key producing field. In addition, much of Maritech’s daily production is processed through neighboring platforms, pipelines, and processing facilities of other operators and third parties. Our insurance protection does not include business interruption coverage. While repair and recovery efforts have been prioritized to restore Maritech’s production as soon as possible, these production restoration efforts are expected to continue beyond 2009. Although we anticipate that many of Maritech’s remaining shut-in properties will resume during early 2009, the full resumption of Maritech’s pre-storm production levels may never occur and will depend on the extent of damage and the repairs or reconstruction needed on certain assets, including certain assets owned by third parties, the timing of which is outside of Maritech’s control. We could incur losses on well abandonment and decommissioning projects. Due to competitive market conditions, a portion of our well abandonment and decommissioning projects may be performed on a turnkey, modified turnkey, or fixed price day rate basis, where defined work is delivered for a fixed price and extra work, which is subject to customer approval, is charged separately. The revenue, cost, and gross profit realized on these types of contracts can vary from the estimated amount because of changes in offshore conditions, increases in the scope of the work to be performed, increased site clearance efforts required, labor and equipment availability, cost and productivity levels, and the performance level of other contractors. In addition, unanticipated events such as accidents, work delays, significant changes in the condition of platforms or wells, downhole problems, and environmental or other technical issues could result in significant losses on these types of projects. These variations and risks may result in our experiencing reduced profitability or losses on these types of projects or on well abandonment and decommissioning work for our Maritech subsidiary. The acquisition of oil and gas properties and their associated well abandonment and decommissioning liabilities is based on estimated data that may be materially incorrect. In conjunction with our purchase of oil and gas properties, we perform detailed due diligence review processes that we believe are consistent with industry practices. These acquired properties consist of both mature properties, which are generally in the later stages of their economic lives, as well as exploitation and prospect opportunities. Each acquisition of oil and gas properties requires a thorough review of the expected cash flows acquired and the associated abandonment obligations assumed. The process of estimating natural gas and oil reserves is complex, requiring significant decisions and assumptions to be made in evaluating the available geological, geophysical, engineering, and economic data for each reservoir. The current volatility of natural gas and oil commodity pricing additionally complicates the calculation of estimated future cash flows of properties to be acquired. As a result, these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, cash flows, development expenditures, operating and abandonment expenses, and quantities of recoverable natural gas and oil reserves may vary substantially from those initially estimated by us. Also, in conjunction with the purchase of certain oil and gas properties, we assume our proportionate share of the related well abandonment and decommissioning liabilities after performing detailed estimating procedures, analysis, and engineering studies. Our estimates of these future well abandonment and decommissioning liabilities are imprecise and subject to change due to changing cost estimates, oil and gas prices, revisions of reserve estimates and other factors. During 2008, Maritech adjusted its decommissioning liability, either for work performed during the year or related to adjusted estimates of the cost of future work to be performed. Approximately $7.0 million of this adjustment was charged to earnings as an operating expense during 2008. If the actual cost of future abandonment and decommissioning work is materially greater than our current estimates, such additional costs could have an additional adverse effect on earnings. 15 Oil and gas drilling activities involve numerous risks and are subject to a variety of factors that we cannot control. Drilling for oil and natural gas involves numerous risks, including the risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs. The costs of drilling, completing, and operating wells are often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed, or canceled as a result of a variety of factors including, but not limited to: · unexpected drilling conditions; · pressure or irregularities in formations; · equipment failures or accidents; · marine risks such as capsizing, collisions, and hurricanes; · other adverse weather conditions; · shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment; and · compliance with environmental and other government requirements, which may increase our costs or restrict our activities. During the three year period ended December 31, 2008, we have expended approximately $324.0 million of development and exploitation costs, and we expect to continue to incur such costs in the future. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we charged approximately $9.1 million of dry hole costs incurred to earnings. Future drilling activities also may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, this failure could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. We may not recover all or any portion of our investment in new wells. In addition, we are often uncertain as to the future cost or timing of drilling, completing, and operating wells. While all drilling, whether developmental or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. Acquisitions or discoveries of additional reserves are needed to avoid a material decline in oil and gas reserves and production volumes. The rate of production from oil and gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. Approximately 31.5% of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2008 are proved producing reserves. Except to the extent that we find or acquire additional properties containing estimated proved reserves; conduct successful exploitation, development, or exploration activities; or through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones, secondary recovery reserves, or tertiary recovery reserves, our estimated proved reserves will decline materially as reserves are produced. Current natural gas and oil commodity pricing, as well as our need to conserve capital in light of the current economic environment, may limit our exploitation, development, or exploration activities for the foreseeable future, which will reduce our ability to replace produced oil and gas reserves. Future oil and gas production is, therefore, highly dependent upon our ability and level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves. We may not be able to obtain access to pipelines, gas gathering, transmission, and processing facilities to market our oil and gas production. The marketing of oil and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing and refining facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. If there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, or if these systems were unavailable to us, the price offered for our production could be significantly depressed, or we could be forced to shut-in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while we construct our own facility. We also rely (and expect to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to process, transmit, and sell our oil and gas production. Our plans to develop and sell our oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transmission or processing facilities to us. 16 Our operations involve significant operating risks, and insurance coverage may not be available or cost effective. We are subject to operating hazards normally associated with the oilfield service industry and offshore oil and gas production operations, including fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering, mechanical problems, abnormally pressured formations, and environmental accidents. Environmental accidents could include, but are not limited to, oil spills; gas leaks or ruptures; uncontrollable flows of oil, gas, or well fluids; or discharges of toxic gases or other pollutants. We are particularly susceptible to adverse weather conditions in the Gulf of Mexico, including hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions. Damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could potentially cause us to curtail both service and production operations for significant periods of time until damage can be assessed and repaired. Moreover, even if we do not experience direct damage from these storms, we may experience disruptions in our operations because customers may curtail their development activities due to damage to their platforms, pipelines, and other related facilities. These hazards also include injuries to employees and third parties during the performance of our operations. Our operation of marine vessels, heavy equipment, and offshore production platforms involves a particularly high level of risk. In addition, certain of our employees who perform services on offshore platforms and vessels are covered by the provisions of the Jones Act, the Death on the High Seas Act, and general maritime law. These laws make the liability limits established by state workers’ compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and, instead, permit them or their representatives to pursue actions against us for damages for job-related injuries. Whenever possible, we obtain agreements from customers and suppliers that limit our exposure. However, the occurrence of certain operating hazards, including storms, could result in substantial losses to us due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage, and suspension of operations. We have maintained a policy of insuring our risks of operational hazards that we believe is typical in the industry. Limits of insurance coverage we have purchased are consistent with the exposures we face and the nature of our products and services. Due to economic conditions in the insurance industry, from time to time, we have increased our self-insured retentions and deductibles for certain policies in order to minimize the increased costs of coverage. In certain areas of our business, we, from time to time, have elected to assume the risk of loss for specific assets. To the extent we suffer losses or claims that are not covered, or are only partially covered by insurance, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Following the hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico region during the third quarters of 2005 and 2008, the cost of the insurance coverage we have typically purchased in the past has increased dramatically. Current coverage premiums now cost several times more than they did historically, particularly for offshore oil and gas production operations. Insurance coverage with favorable deductible and maximum coverage amounts may not be available in the market, or its cost may not be justifiable. Our insurance coverage today includes higher deductibles and lower maximum coverage limits than in prior years. There can be no assurance that any insurance will be adequate to cover losses or liabilities associated with operational hazards. We cannot predict the continued availability of insurance or its availability at premium levels that justify its purchase. Certain of our operations, particularly those conducted offshore, are seasonal and depend, in part, on weather conditions. The Offshore Division has historically enjoyed its highest vessel utilization rates during the period from April to October, when weather conditions are typically more favorable for offshore activities, and has experienced its lowest utilization rates in the period from November to March. This Division, under certain turnkey and other contracts, may bear the risk of delays caused by adverse weather conditions. Storms can also cause our oil and gas producing properties to be shut-in. In addition, demand for other products and services we provide are subject to seasonal fluctuations, due in part to weather conditions that cannot be predicted. Accordingly, our operating results may vary from quarter to quarter depending on weather conditions in applicable areas. 17 Delays or cost overruns on construction projects could adversely affect our business, or the expected profitability and cash flows upon completion may not be as timely or as high as expected. We are currently constructing a new calcium chloride plant facility near El Dorado, Arkansas, and have recently completed construction of a new corporate headquarters facility in The Woodlands, Texas. Due to our continuing growth strategy, we could have other significant construction projects in the future. These projects are subject to the risk of delays or cost overruns inherent in construction projects. These risks include, but are not limited to: · unforeseen quality or engineering problems; · work stoppages; · weather interference; · unanticipated cost increases; · delays in receipt of necessary equipment; and · inability to obtain the requisite permits or approvals. The completion of these construction projects will require a significant amount of working capital, and delays or cost overruns on these projects could adversely affect our cash flows. In addition, we will not receive any material increase in revenue or cash flow from the El Dorado, Arkansas calcium chloride plant until after it is placed in service and we are able to begin production. Delays in the completion of this calcium chloride facility could affect future profitability for our Fluids Division operations. We face risks related to our growth strategy. Our growth strategy includes both internal growth and growth through acquisitions. Internal growth may require significant capital expenditure investments, some of which may become unrecoverable or fail to generate an acceptable level of cash flows. Internal growth may also require financial resources (including the use of available cash or additional long-term debt) and management and personnel resources. Acquisitions also require significant financial and management resources, both at the time of the transaction and during the process of integrating the newly acquired business into our operations. If we overextend our current financial resources by growing too aggressively, we could face liquidity problems or have difficulty obtaining additional financing. Any such recent or future acquisition transactions by us may not achieve favorable financial results. Our operating results could also be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully integrate newly acquired companies into our operations, are unable to hire adequate personnel, or are unable to retain existing personnel. We may not be able to consummate future acquisitions on favorable terms. Acquisition or internal growth assumptions developed to support our decisions could prove to be overly optimistic, particularly if we underestimate the duration of the current economic downturn. Future acquisitions by us could also result in issuances of equity securities, or the rights associated with the equity securities, which could potentially dilute earnings per share. Future acquisitions could also result in the incurrence of additional debt or contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. These factors could adversely affect our future operating results and financial position. Our expansion into foreign countries exposes us to unfamiliar regulations and may expose us to new obstacles to growth. We plan to grow both in the United States and in foreign countries. We have established operations in, among other countries, Brazil, Mexico, Argentina, Canada, the United Kingdom, Norway, Finland, Sweden, Ivory Coast and Libya, and have joint ventures in Saudi Arabia and The Netherlands. A portion of our planned future growth includes expansion into additional countries. Foreign operations carry special risks. Our business in the countries in which we currently operate and those in which we may operate in the future could be limited or disrupted by: · government controls and government actions such as expropriation of assets and changes in legal and regulatory environments; · import and export license requirements; · political, social, or economic instability; · trade restrictions; · changes in tariffs and taxes; · restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; 18 · the impact of anti-corruption laws and the risk that actions taken by us or others on our behalf may adversely affect our operations and competitive position in the affected countries; and · the limited knowledge of these markets or the inability to protect our interests. We and our affiliates operate in countries where governmental corruption has been known to exist. While we and our subsidiaries are committed to conducting business in a legal and ethical manner, there is a risk of violating either the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) or laws or legislation promulgated pursuant to the 1997 OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions or other applicable anti-corruption regulations that generally prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. Violation of these laws could result in monetary penalties against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. Foreign governments and agencies often establish permit and regulatory standards different from those in the U.S. If we cannot obtain foreign regulatory approvals, or if we cannot obtain them when we expect, our growth and profitability from international operations could be limited. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace, and the continued ability to attract new employees. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain skilled employees. The delivery of our products and services requires personnel with specialized skills and experience. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. The demand for skilled workers in the Gulf Coast region is high, and the supply is limited. Changes in personnel, therefore, could adversely affect operating results. Financial Risks: We have significant long-term debt outstanding. As of December 31, 2008, our long-term debt outstanding was approximately $406.8 million and our debt to total capital ratio was 44.1%. Additional growth could result in increased debt levels to support our capital expenditure needs or acquisition activities. Our current level of long-term debt could limit our ability to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund our capital expenditures, acquisitions, working capital needs, and other general corporate requirements. A portion of our long-term debt outstanding is at variable interest rates. Debt service costs related to outstanding long-term debt represent a significant use of our operating cash flow and could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. Our long-term debt agreements contain customary covenants and other restrictions and requirements. In addition, the agreements require us to maintain certain financial ratio requirements. Significant deterioration of these ratios could result in a default under the agreements. The agreements also include cross-default provisions relating to any other indebtedness we have that is greater than a defined amount. If any such indebtedness is not paid or is accelerated and such event is not remedied in a timely manner, a default will occur under the long-term debt agreements. Any event of default, if not timely remedied, could result in a termination of all commitments of the lenders and an acceleration of any outstanding loans and credit obligations. Certain of our businesses are exposed to significant credit risks. We face concentrations of credit risk associated with the significant amounts of accounts receivable we have with companies in the energy industry. Many of our customers, particularly those associated with our onshore operations, are small to medium sized oil and gas operating companies who may be more susceptible to fluctuating oil and gas commodity prices or generally increased operating expenses than larger companies. Our ability to collect from our customers may be impacted by adverse changes in the energy industry. 19 Maritech purchases interests in oil and gas properties in connection with the operations of our Offshore Division. As the owner and operator of these interests, Maritech is liable for the proper abandonment and decommissioning of the wells, platforms, and pipelines as well as the site clearance related to these properties. We have guaranteed a portion of the abandonment and decommissioning liabilities of Maritech. In certain instances, Maritech is entitled to be paid in the future for all or a portion of these obligations by the previous owner of the property once the liability is satisfied. We and Maritech are subject to the risk that the previous owner(s) will be unable to make these future payments. In addition, if Maritech acquires less than 100% of the working interest in a property, its co-owners are responsible for the payment of their portions of the associated operating expenses and abandonment liabilities. However, if one or more co-owners do not pay their portions, Maritech and any other nondefaulting co-owners may be liable for the defaulted amount. If any required payment is not made by a previous owner or a co-owner and any security is not sufficient to cover the required payment, we could suffer material losses. Maritech’s estimates of its oil and gas reserves and related future cash flows are based on many factors and assumptions, including various assumptions that are based on conditions in existence as of the dates of the estimates. Any material changes in those conditions, or other factors affecting those assumptions, could impair the quantity and value of our oil and gas reserves. Maritech’s estimates of oil and gas reserve information are prepared in accordance with Rule 4-10 of Regulation S-X and reflect only estimates of the accumulation of oil and gas and the economic recoverability of those volumes. Maritech’s future production, revenues, and expenditures with respect to such oil and gas reserves will likely be different from estimates, and any material differences may negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As a result, Maritech has experienced and may continue to experience significant revisions to its reserve estimates. Oil and gas reservoir analysis is a subjective process which involves estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows associated with such reserves necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions. Because all reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may prove to differ materially from that assumed in estimating reserves: · the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered; · the production and operating costs incurred; · the amount and timing of future development and abandonment expenditures; and · future oil and gas sales prices. Furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flow based on the same available data. The estimated discounted future net cash flows described in this Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2008 should not be considered as the current market value of the estimated oil and gas proved reserves attributable to Maritech’s properties. Such estimates are based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, in accordance with SEC requirements, while future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. The SEC currently requires that we report our oil and natural gas reserves using the price as of the last day of the year. Using lower values in forecasting reserves will result in a shorter life being given to producing oil and natural gas properties because such properties, as their production levels are estimated to decline, will reach an uneconomic limit with lower prices at an earlier date. There can be no assurance that a decrease in oil and gas prices or other differences in Maritech’s estimates of its reserves will not adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. Our accounting for oil and gas operations may result in volatile earnings. We account for our oil and gas operations using the successful efforts method. Costs incurred to drill and equip development wells, including unsuccessful development wells, are capitalized. Costs related to unsuccessful exploratory wells are expensed as incurred. All capitalized costs are accumulated and recorded separately for each field and are depleted on a unit-of-production basis, based on the estimated remaining equivalent proved oil and gas reserves of each field. The capitalized costs of our oil and natural gas properties, on a field basis, cannot exceed the estimated undiscounted future net cash 20 flows of that field. If net capitalized costs exceed undiscounted future net revenues, we must write down the costs of each such field to our estimate of its fair market value. Accordingly, a significant decline in oil or natural gas prices, unsuccessful exploration and/or development efforts, or an increase in our decommissioning liabilities could cause a future write-down of capitalized costs. During the last two quarters of 2008, and primarily due to the decrease in oil and natural gas prices, we recorded oil and gas property impairments on proved properties totaling approximately $42.7 million. Unproved properties are evaluated at the lower of cost or fair market value. On a field by field basis, our oil and gas properties are assessed for impairment in value whenever indicators become evident, with any impairment charged to expense. Under the successful efforts method of accounting, we are exposed to the risk that the value of a particular property (field) would have to be written down or written off if an impairment were present. The current economic environment could result in significant impairments of certain of our long-lived assets, including goodwill. The current economic environment has resulted in decreased demand for many of our products and services, which could impact the expected utilization rates of certain of our long-lived assets, including plant facilities, operating locations, vessels, and other operating equipment. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review the carrying value of our long-lived assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable, based on their expected future cash flows. The impact of reduced expected future cash flow could require the write-down of all or a portion of the carrying value for these assets, which would result in an impairment charge to earnings, resulting in increased earnings volatility. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we also review the carrying value of our goodwill for possible impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating the carrying value of our goodwill may not be recoverable include a decline in our stock price and our market capitalization, future cash flows, and slower growth rates in our industry. In connection with the preparation of our annual financial statements, we determined that a $47.1 million impairment of goodwill was required. If current economic and market conditions persist or decline further, we may be required to record an additional charge to earnings during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined, resulting in an impact on our results of operations. Legal/Regulatory Risks: Our operations are subject to extensive and evolving U.S. and foreign federal, state and local laws and regulatory requirements that increase our operating costs and expose us to potential fines, penalties, and litigation. Laws and regulations strictly govern our operations relating to: corporate governance, environmental affairs, health and safety, waste management, and the manufacture, storage, handling, transportation, use, and sale of chemical products. Our operation and decommissioning of offshore properties are also subject to and affected by various types of government regulation, including numerous federal and state environmental protection laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex and stringent, and compliance is becoming increasingly expensive. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with these regulations, and violators are subject to civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions, or both. Third parties may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance. It is possible that increasingly strict environmental laws, regulations, and enforcement policies could result in substantial costs and liabilities to us and could subject our handling, manufacture, use, reuse, or disposal of substances or pollutants to increased scrutiny. A large portion of Maritech’s oil and gas operations are conducted on federal leases that are administered by the MMS and are required to comply with the regulations and orders promulgated by the MMS under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act. MMS regulations also establish construction requirements for production facilities located on federal offshore leases and govern the plugging and abandonment of wells and the removal of production facilities from these leases. Under limited circumstances, the MMS could require us to suspend or terminate our operations on a federal lease. The MMS also establishes the basis for royalty payments due under federal oil and natural gas leases through regulations issued under applicable statutory authority. 21 Our business exposes us to risks such as the potential for harmful substances escaping into the environment and causing damages or injuries, which could be substantial. Although we maintain general liability and pollution liability insurance, these policies are subject to coverage limits. We maintain limited environmental liability insurance covering named locations and environmental risks associated with contract services for oil and gas operations and for oil and gas producing properties. The extent of this coverage is consistent with our other insurance programs. We could be materially and adversely affected by an enforcement proceeding or a claim that is not covered or is only partially covered by insurance. In addition to increasing our risk of environmental liability, the rigorous enforcement of environmental laws and regulations has accelerated the growth of some of the markets we serve. Decreased regulation and enforcement in the future could materially and adversely affect the demand for the types of services offered by certain of our Offshore Services operations and, therefore, materially and adversely affect our business. Our proprietary rights may be violated or compromised, which could damage our operations. We own numerous patents, patent applications, and unpatented trade secret technologies in the U.S. and certain foreign countries. There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to deter misappropriation of these rights. In addition, independent third parties may develop competitive or superior technologies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 