Risk Factors In addition to other information set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following factors should be carefully considered when evaluating us. Our financial condition raises substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. The audit opinion on our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2012 includes an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our current capital resources may not be sufficient to support our liquidity requirements through 2013. Our financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue to operate as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. If we become unable to continue as a going concern, we may have to liquidate our assets and the values we receive for our assets in liquidation or dissolution could be significantly lower than the values reflected in our financial statements. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Our cash position and limited ability to access additional capital may limit our growth opportunities. At April 25, 2013, we had $30.7 million (December 31,2012: $72.6 million) of available cash and, until Petrodelta pays a dividend, our available cash may not be sufficient to meet capital and operational commitments for the next twelve months. We have no recurring cash flows. Having Petrodelta dividends as our primary source of cash flow limits our access to additional capital, and our concentration of political risk in Venezuela may limit our ability to leverage our assets. In addition, our future cash position depends upon the payment of dividends by Petrodelta, success with our exploration program, possible delay of discretionary capital spending to future periods, farm-out, or possible sale, or otherwise monetization of assets as necessary to maintain the liquidity required to run our operations. While we believe that Petrodelta will reinvest any excess cash into Petrodelta in 2013 and 2014 which might otherwise be available for payment of dividends, there is no assurance this will be the case, nor that if the cash is not reinvested that it will be paid as dividends. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity and may limit our ability to grow through the acquisition or exploration of additional oil and gas properties and projects. Our business strategy may be sensitive to market prices for oil and gas. We have made significant investments to provide the foundation and global reach required for an organic growth focus. While exploration has become a larger part of our overall portfolio, to the extent market values of oil and gas decline, our continued investments in exploration projects may be adversely affected. We have incurred long-term indebtedness obligations, which significantly increased our leverage. On October 11, 2012, we closed a debt offering of $79.8 million in aggregate principal amount of 11.0 percent senior unsecured notes due October 11, 2014. The degree to which we are leveraged could, among other things: • make it difficult for us to make payments on the debt; • make it difficult for us to obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes on favorable terms, if at all; • make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures; and • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business. Our ability to meet our debt service obligation will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Global market and economic conditions, including those related to the credit markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A general slowdown in economic activity could adversely affect our business by impacting our ability to access additional capital as well as the need to preserve adequate development capital in the interim. 16 Table of Contents We may not be able to meet the requirements of the global expansion of our business strategy. We have added a significant global exploration component to diversify our overall portfolio. In many locations, we may be required to post performance bonds in support of a work program or the work program may include minimum funding requirements to keep the contract. We may not have the funds available to meet the minimum funding requirements when they come due and be required to forfeit the contracts. Our strategy to identify, access and integrate hydrocarbon assets in known hydrocarbon basins globally carries greater deal execution, operating, financial, legal and political risks. The environments in which we operate are often difficult and the ability to operate successfully will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to control the pace of development, our ability to apply “best practices” in drilling and development, and the fostering of productive and transparent relationships with local partners, the local community and governmental authorities. Financial risks include our ability to control costs and attract financing for our projects. In addition, often the legal systems of these countries are not mature and their reliability is uncertain. This may affect our ability to enforce contracts and achieve certainty in our rights to develop and operate oil and natural gas projects, as well as our ability to obtain adequate compensation for any resulting losses. Our strategy depends on our ability to have significant influence over operations and financial control. We do not directly manage operations of Petrodelta. PDVSA, through CVP, exercises substantial control over Petrodelta’s operations, making Petrodelta subject to some internal policies and procedures of PDVSA as well as being subject to constraints in skilled personnel available to Petrodelta. These issues may have an adverse effect on the efficiency and effectiveness of Petrodelta’s operations. We hold a minority equity investment in Petrodelta. Even though we are able to exercise significant influence as a minority equity investor in Petrodelta, our control of Petrodelta is limited to our rights under the Conversion Contract and its annexes and Petrodelta’s charter and bylaws. As a result, our ability to implement or influence Petrodelta’s business plan, assure quality control, and set the timing and pace of development may be adversely affected. In addition, the majority partner, CVP, has initiated and undertaken numerous unilateral decisions that can impact our minority equity investment. Petrodelta’s business plan will be sensitive to market prices for oil. Petrodelta operates under a business plan, the success of which will rely heavily on the market price of oil. To the extent that market values of oil decline, the business plan of Petrodelta may be adversely affected. A decline in the market price of crude oil could uniquely affect the financial condition of Petrodelta. Under the terms of the Conversion Contract and other governmental documents, Petrodelta is subject to a special advantage tax (“ventajas especiales”) which requires that if in any year the aggregate amount of royalties, taxes and certain other contributions is less than 50 percent of the value of the hydrocarbons produced, Petrodelta must pay the government of Venezuela the difference. In the event of a significant decline in crude prices, the ventajas especiales could force Petrodelta to operate at a loss. Moreover, our ability to control those losses by modifying Petrodelta’s business plan or restricting the budget is limited under the Conversion Contract. An increase in oil prices could result in increased tax liability in Venezuela affecting Petrodelta’s operations and profitability, which in turn could affect our dividends and profitability. Prices for oil fluctuate widely. In April 2011, the Venezuelan government published the amended Windfall Profits Tax which establishes a special contribution for extraordinary prices to the Venezuelan government of 20 percent to be applied to the difference between the price fixed by the Venezuela budget for the relevant fiscal year (set at $50 per barrel for 2012 [$55 per barrel for 2013]) and $70 per barrel. The amended Windfall Profits Tax also establishes a special contribution for exorbitant prices to the Venezuelan government of (1) 80 percent when the average price of the Venezuelan Export Basket (“VEB”) exceeds $70 per barrel but is less than $90 per barrel; (2) 90 percent when the average price of the VEB exceeds $90 per barrel but is less that $100 per barrel; and (3) 95 percent when the average price of the VEB exceeds $100 per barrel. Any increase in the taxes payable by Petrodelta, including the Windfall Profits Tax, as a result of increased oil prices will reduce cash available for dividends to us and our partner, CVP. Oil price declines and volatility could adversely affect Petrodelta’s operations and profitability, which in turn could affect our dividends and profitability. Prices for oil also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and dividends from Petrodelta. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of oil that we can produce economically and lower oil production could affect the amount of natural gas we can produce. We cannot predict future oil prices. Factors that can cause fluctuations in oil prices include: • relatively minor changes in the global supply and demand for oil; 17 Table of Contents • export quotas; • market uncertainty; • the level of consumer product demand; • weather conditions; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and policies; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • political and economic conditions in oil-producing and oil consuming countries; and • overall economic conditions. The total capital required for development of Petrodelta’s assets may exceed the ability of Petrodelta to finance such developments. Petrodelta’s ability to fully develop the fields in Venezuela will require a significant investment. Petrodelta’s future capital requirements for the development of its assets may exceed the cash available from existing cash flow. Petrodelta’s ability to secure financing is currently limited and uncertain, and has been, and may be, affected by numerous factors beyond its control, including the risks associated with operating in Venezuela. Because of this financial risk, Petrodelta may not be able to secure either the equity or debt financing necessary to meet its future cash needs for investment, which may limit its ability to fully develop the properties, cause delays with their development or require early divestment of all or a portion of those projects. This could negatively impact our minority equity investment. If we are called upon to fund our share of Petrodelta’s operations, our failure to do so could be considered a default under the Conversion Contract and cause the forfeiture of some or all our shares in Petrodelta. In addition, CVP may be unable or unwilling to fund its share of capital requirements and our ability to require them to do so is limited. Since Petrodelta only executed approximately 45.8 percent its 2012 proposed capital expenditures primarily due to insufficient monetary support and contractual adherence by PDVSA, it is possible that PDVSA will not provide the support required to execute Petrodelta’s proposed 2013 budget. Should PDVSA continue in insufficient monetary support and contractual adherence of Petrodelta, underinvestment in the development plan may lead to continued under-performance. The legal or fiscal framework for Petrodelta may change and the Venezuelan government may not honor its commitments. While we believe that the Conversion Contract and Petrodelta provide a basis for a more durable arrangement in Venezuela, the value of the investment necessarily depends upon Venezuela’s maintenance of legal, tax, royalty and contractual stability. Our experiences in Venezuela demonstrate that such stability cannot be assured. While we have and will continue to take measures to mitigate our risks, no assurance can be provided that we will be successful in doing so or that events beyond our control will not adversely affect the value of our minority equity investment in Petrodelta. PDVSA’s failure to timely pay contractors could have an adverse effect on Petrodelta. PDVSA has failed to pay on a timely basis certain amounts owed to contractors that PDVSA has contracted to do work for Petrodelta. PDVSA purchases all of Petrodelta’s oil production. PDVSA and its affiliates have reported shortfalls in meeting their cash requirements for operations and planned capital expenditures, and PDVSA has fallen behind in certain of its payment obligations to its contractors, including contractors engaged by PDVSA to provide services to Petrodelta. In addition, PDVSA has fallen behind in certain of its payment obligations to Petrodelta, which payments Petrodelta would otherwise use to pay its contractors, including Harvest Vinccler. As a result, Petrodelta is continuing to experience difficulty in retaining contractors who provide services for Petrodelta’s operations. We cannot provide any assurance as to whether or when PDVSA will become current on its payment obligations. Inability to retain contractors or to pay them on a timely basis is continuing to have an adverse effect on Petrodelta’s operations and on Petrodelta’s ability to carry out its business plan. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are uncertain and inherently imprecise. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains estimates of our oil and natural gas reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex, requiring significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each 18 Table of Contents reservoir. Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves likely will vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves set forth. Actual production, revenue, taxes, development expenditures and operating expenses with respect to our reserves will likely vary from the estimates used, and these variances may be material. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues referred to in Item 15. Additional Supplemental Information on Oil and Natural Gas Producing Activities (unaudited) for Petrodelta S.A., TABLE V – Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Related to Proved Oil and Natural Gas Reserve Quantities is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are generally based on the unweighted average price of the first day of the month during the 12-month period before the ending date of the period covered by the reserve report and costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Any changes in demand, changes in our ability to produce or changes in governmental regulations, policies or taxation will also affect actual future net cash flows. The timing of both the production and the expenses from the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from estimated proved reserves and their present value. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most accurate discount factor. The effective interest rate at various times and the risks associated with the oil and natural gas industry in general will affect the accuracy of the 10 percent discount factor. We may not be able to replace production with new reserves. In general, production rates and remaining reserves from oil and natural gas properties decline as reserves are depleted. The decline rates depend on reservoir characteristics. Our future oil and natural gas production is highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive and uncertain. We may be unable to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our oil and natural gas reserves if cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. We cannot give any assurance that our future exploration, development and acquisition activities will result in additional proved reserves or that we will be able to drill productive wells at acceptable costs. Our future operations and our investments in equity affiliates are subject to numerous risks of oil and natural gas drilling and production activities. Oil and natural gas exploration and development drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be found. The cost of drilling and completing wells is often uncertain. Oil and natural gas drilling and production activities may be shortened, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment; • shortages in experienced labor; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • unexpected drilling conditions; • equipment or facilities failures or accidents; • remediation and other costs resulting from oil spills or releases of hazardous materials; • government actions or changes in regulations; • delays in receiving necessary governmental permits; • delays in receiving partner approvals; and • weather conditions. The prevailing price of oil also affects the cost of and availability for drilling rigs, production equipment and related services. We cannot give any assurance that the new wells we drill will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment. Drilling for oil and natural gas may be unprofitable. Drilling activities can result in dry wells and wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues after operating and other costs. 19 Table of Contents We operate in many different jurisdictions and we could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, including the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, which is broader in scope than the FCPA, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government and other officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our internal policies mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. Despite our training and compliance programs, we cannot be assured that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from acts of corruption committed by our employees or agents. Our continued expansion outside the U.S., including in developing countries, could increase the risk of such violations in the future. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Operations in areas outside the United States are subject to various risks inherent in foreign operations. Our operations are subject to various risks inherent in foreign operations. These risks may include, among other things, loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of hazards such as expropriation, nationalization, war, insurrection, civil unrest, strikes and other political risks, increases in taxes and governmental royalties, being subject to foreign laws, legal systems and the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts or tribunals, renegotiation of contracts with governmental entities, changes in laws and policies, including taxes, governing operations of foreign-based companies, currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations and other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over our international operations. Our international operations may also be adversely affected by laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign policy, foreign trade, taxation and the possible inability to subject foreign persons to the jurisdiction of the courts in the United States. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to various governmental regulations that materially affect our operations. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to various governmental regulations. These regulations may be changed in response to economic or political conditions. Matters regulated may include permits for discharges of wastewaters and other substances generated in connection with drilling operations, bonds or other financial responsibility requirements to cover drilling contingencies and well plugging and abandonment costs, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, and unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. At various times, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on oil and natural gas production. In order to conserve or limit supplies of oil and natural gas, these agencies have restricted the rates of the flow of oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity. We cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. We are subject to complex laws that can affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Exploration and development and the production and sale of oil and natural gas are subject to extensive federal, state, local and international regulation. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with environmental and other governmental regulations. Matters subject to regulation include: • the amounts and types of substances and materials that may be released into the environment; • response to unexpected releases to the environment; • reports and permits concerning exploration, drilling, production and other operations; and • taxation. Under these laws, we could be liable for personal injuries, property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs, natural resource damages and other environmental damages. We also could be required to install expensive pollution control measures or limit or cease activities on lands located within wilderness, wetlands or other environmentally or politically sensitive areas. Failure to comply with these laws also may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties as well as the imposition of corrective action orders. Moreover, these laws could change in ways that substantially increase our costs. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The oil and gas business involves many operating risks that can cause substantial losses, and insurance may not protect us against all of these risks. We are not insured against all risks. Our oil and gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and gas, including the risk of: • fires and explosions; 20 Table of Contents • blow-outs; • uncontrollable or unknown flows of oil, gas, formation water or drilling fluids; • adverse weather conditions or natural disasters; • pipe or cement failures and casing collapses; • pipeline ruptures; • discharges of toxic gases; • build up of naturally occurring radioactive materials; and • vandalism. If any of these events occur, we could incur substantial losses as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • severe damage or destruction of property and equipment, and oil and gas reservoirs; • pollution and other environmental damage; • investigatory and clean-up responsibilities; • regulatory investigation and penalties; • suspension of our operations; and • repairs to resume operations. If we experience any of these problems, our ability to conduct operations could be adversely affected. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential risks and losses. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not insurable. Competition within the industry may adversely affect our operations. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We compete with major, national and independent oil and natural gas companies for the acquisition of desirable oil and natural gas properties and the equipment and labor required to develop and operate such properties. Many of these competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to successfully execute our strategy. We are a small organization and depend on the skills and experience of a few individuals in key management and operating positions to execute our business strategy. Loss of one or more key individuals in the organization could hamper or delay achieving our strategy. Tax claims by municipalities in Venezuela may adversely affect Harvest Vinccler’s financial condition. The municipalities of Uracoa and Libertador have asserted numerous tax claims against Harvest Vinccler which we believe are without merit. However, the reliability of Venezuela’s judicial system is a source of concern and it can be subject to local and political influences. Potential regulations regarding climate change could alter the way we conduct our business. Studies over recent years have indicated that emissions of certain gases may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere. In response to these studies, governments have begun adopting domestic and international climate change regulations that requires reporting and reductions of the emission of greenhouse gases. Methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, a by-product of the burning of oil, gas and refined petroleum products, are considered greenhouse gases. Internationally, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol address greenhouse gas emissions, and several countries including the European Union have established greenhouse gas regulatory systems. Any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to incur increased operating and compliance costs, and could have an adverse effect on demand for the oil and gas that we produce and as a result, negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our internal business processes and information systems and modification or interruption of such systems may disrupt our business, processes and internal controls. The proper functioning of our internal business processes and information systems is critical to the efficient operation and management of our business. If these information technology systems fail or are interrupted, our operations may be adversely affected and operating results could be harmed. Our business 21 Table of Contents processes and information systems need to be sufficiently scalable to support the future growth of our business and may require modifications or upgrades that expose us to a number of operational risks. Our information technology systems, and those of third party providers, may also be vulnerable to damage or disruption caused by circumstances beyond our control. These include catastrophic events, power anomalies or outages, natural disasters, computer system or network failures, viruses or malware, physical or electronic break-ins, unauthorized access and cyber attacks. Any material disruption, malfunction or similar challenges with our business processes or information systems, or disruptions or challenges relating to the transition to new processes, systems or providers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We have concluded we did not maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting because material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting related to (1) a sufficient complement of accounting and financial reporting resources; (2). accounting for certain transactions for oil and gas properties; (3) accounting for income taxes; (4) appropriate segregation of duties related to certain system access rights and the recording and review of journal entries; (5) preparation and review of certain classification and disclosure matters impacting the financial statements and related notes; and (6) significant and complex debt and equity transactions existed as of December 31, 2012. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement in our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected and corrected on a timely basis. Although we intend to take appropriate steps to remediate these material weaknesses, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in a timely manner, that our initiatives will prove to be successful or that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. Failure to identify material weaknesses in our internal controls in a timely manner, or the identification of material weaknesses in the future, will impair our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information accurately, timely and in accordance with SEC rules. The failure could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, subject us to litigation and regulatory enforcement actions, and adversely impact our business and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 