Risk Factors In addition to other information set forth elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be carefully considered when evaluating us. We may not be able to meet the requirements of the global expansion of our business strategy. We have added a global exploration component to diversify our overall portfolio. In many locations, we may be required to post performance bonds in support of a work program. We also intend to acquire underdeveloped, undeveloped and exploration properties from time to time for which the primary risks may be technical, operational or both. Our strategy to identify, access and integrate hydrocarbon assets in known hydrocarbon basins globally carries greater deal execution, operating, financial, legal and political risks. The environments in which we operate are often difficult and the ability to operate successfully will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to control the pace of development, our ability to apply “best practices” in drilling and development, and the fostering of productive and transparent relationships with local partners, the local community and governmental authorities. Financial risks include our ability to control costs and attract financing for our projects. In addition, often the legal systems of these countries are not mature and their reliability is uncertain. This may affect our ability to enforce contracts and achieve certainty in our rights to develop and operate oil and natural gas projects, as well as our ability to obtain adequate compensation for any resulting losses. Our strategy depends on our ability to have significant influence over operations and financial control. 10 Table of Contents Operations in areas outside the United States are subject to various risks inherent in foreign operations. Our operations are subject to various risks inherent in foreign operations. These risks may include, among other things, loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of hazards such as expropriation, nationalization, war, insurrection, civil unrest, strikes and other political risks, increases in taxes and governmental royalties, being subject to foreign laws, legal systems and the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts or tribunals, renegotiation of contracts with governmental entities, changes in laws and policies, including taxes, governing operations of foreign-based companies, currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations and other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over our international operations. Our international operations may also be adversely affected by laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign policy, foreign trade, taxation and the possible inability to subject foreign persons to the jurisdiction of the courts in the United States. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are uncertain and inherently imprecise. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves based on our equity investment in Petrodelta. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex requiring significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves likely will vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves set forth. Actual production, revenue, taxes, development expenditures and operating expenses with respect to our reserves will likely vary from the estimates used, and these variances may be material. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues referred to in Part IV, Item 15, Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, TABLE V – Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Related to Proved Oil and Natural Gas Reserve Quantities and Additional Supplemental Information on Oil and Natural Gas Producing Activities (unaudited) for Venezuelan Equity Affiliate as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, TABLE V – Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Related to Proved Oil and Natural Gas Reserve Quantities is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are generally based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Any changes in demand, changes in our ability to produce or changes in governmental regulations, policies or taxation will also affect actual future net cash flows. The timing of both the production and the expenses from the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from estimated proved reserves and their present value. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most accurate discount factor. The effective interest rate at various times and the risks associated with the oil and natural gas industry in general will affect the accuracy of the 10 percent discount factor. Our future operations and our investments in equity affiliates are subject to numerous risks of oil and natural gas drilling and production activities. Oil and natural gas exploration and development drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be found. The cost of drilling and completing wells is often uncertain. Oil and natural gas drilling and production activities may be shortened, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • weather conditions; • shortages in experienced labor; • delays in receiving necessary governmental permits; • shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment; 11 Table of Contents • delays in receipt of permits or access to lands; and • government actions or changes in regulations. The prevailing price of oil also affects the cost of and availability for drilling rigs, production equipment and related services. We cannot assure you the new wells we drill will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment. Drilling for oil and natural gas may be unprofitable. Drilling activities can result in dry wells and wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues after operating and other costs. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to various governmental regulations that materially affect our operations. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to various governmental regulations. These regulations may be changed in response to economic or political conditions. Matters regulated may include permits for discharges of wastewaters and other substances generated in connection with drilling operations, bonds or other financial responsibility requirements to cover drilling contingencies and well plugging and abandonment costs, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, and unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. At various times, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on oil and natural gas production. In order to conserve or limit supplies of oil and natural gas, these agencies have restricted the rates of flow of oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity. We cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. Our cash position and limited ability to access additional capital may limit our growth opportunities. At December 31, 2007, we had $120.8 million of available cash and, until Petrodelta pays a dividend, there will be no additional cash available from operations. Having a Petrodelta dividend as our sole source of cash flow limits our access to additional capital and our concentration of political risk in Venezuela may limit our ability to leverage our assets. In addition, our future cash position depends upon the payment of dividends by Petrodelta, in particular for the period from April 1, 2006 through December 31, 2007. While we believe such dividends, if available, will be paid, there is no assurance this will be the case. These factors may limit our ability to grow through the acquisition of additional oil and gas properties and projects. Competition within the industry may adversely affect our operations. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We compete with major, national and independent oil and natural gas companies for the acquisition of desirable oil and natural gas properties and the equipment and labor required to develop and operate such properties. Many of these competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to successfully execute our strategy. We are a small organization and depend on the skills and experience of a few individuals in key management and operating positions to execute our business strategy. Loss of one or more key individuals in the organization could hamper or delay achieving our strategy. We may not receive the required government approvals for the Dussafu PSC and/or the Budong PSC. Although all conditions precedent to the Dussafu PSC sale and purchase agreement and the Budong PSC farm-in agreement have been met, there is no certainty that the Republic of Gabon or Indonesia’s Migas will approve the respective agreements. Without the governmental approvals, we will not have an interest in either asset. We no longer directly manage operations of Petrodelta. PDVSA, through CVP, exercises substantial control over operations, making Petrodelta subject to some internal policies and procedures of PDVSA as well as being subject to constraints in skilled personnel available to Petrodelta. These issues may have an adverse effect on the efficiency and effectiveness of Petrodelta operations. Now that the conversion to Petrodelta is completed, we are a minority interest owner in Petrodelta. Even though we have substantial negative control provisions as a minority owner in Petrodelta, our control of Petrodelta is limited to our rights under the Conversion Contract and its annexes and the Charter and Bylaws. As a result, our ability to implement or influence Petrodelta’s Business Plan, assure quality control, and set the timing and pace of development may be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Now that the conversion to Petrodelta is completed, Petrodelta has a new sales contract with PPSA, and we have no experience with PPSA as to the timeliness of their payment of invoices. Under the OSA between Harvest Vinccler and PDVSA, PDVSA had a history of making timely payment of invoices for oil and natural gas deliveries. Even though there is no reason not to believe that PPSA won’t make timely payment of invoices for oil and natural gas deliveries, there is no guarantee that this will be the case. Petrodelta’s Business Plan will be sensitive to market prices for oil. Petrodelta will be operating under a business plan, the success of which will rely heavily on the market price of oil. To the extent that market values of oil decline, the business plan of Petrodelta may be adversely affected. A decline in the market price of crude oil could uniquely affect the financial condition of Petrodelta. Under the terms of the Conversion Contract and other governmental documents, Petrodelta is subject to a special advantage tax (“ventajas especiales”) which requires that if in any year the aggregate amount of royalties, taxes and certain other contributions is less than 50 percent of the value of the hydrocarbons produced, Petrodelta must pay the government the difference. In the event of a significant decline in crude prices, the ventajas especiales could force Petrodelta to operate at a loss. Moreover, our ability to control those losses by modifying the Business Plan or restricting the budget is limited under the Conversion Contract. Oil price declines and volatility could adversely affect Petrodelta’s future, our dividends and profitability. Prices for oil fluctuate widely. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and dividends from Petrodelta. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of oil that we can produce economically and lower oil production could affect the amount of natural gas we can produce. We cannot predict future oil prices. Factors that can cause fluctuations in oil prices include: • relatively minor changes in the global supply and demand for oil; • export quotas; • market uncertainty; • the level of consumer product demand; • weather conditions; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and policies; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • political and economic conditions in oil-producing and oil consuming countries; and • overall economic conditions. Petrodelta may not be able to pay dividends on its operations. While we continue to maintain cash reserves, our investment in Petrodelta currently represents all of our near-term cash generating capability, and the funds available to pursue our growth strategy may be adversely affected by Petrodelta’s inability to pay a dividend. The total capital required for development of the New Fields in Venezuela may exceed the ability of Petrodelta to finance. Petrodelta’s ability to fully develop the fields in Venezuela will require a significant investment. Petrodelta’s future capital requirements for the development of the New Fields may exceed the cash available from existing cash flow. Petrodelta’s ability to secure financing is currently limited and uncertain, and has been, and may be, affected by numerous factors beyond its control, including the risks associated with operating in Venezuela. Because of this financial risk, Petrodelta may not be able to secure either the equity or debt financing necessary to meet its future cash needs for investment, which may limit its ability to fully develop the properties, cause delays with their development or require early divestment of all or a portion of those projects. This could negatively impact our investment. If we are called upon to fund Petrodelta’s operations, our failure to do so could be considered a default under the Conversion Contract and cause the forfeiture of some or all our shares in Petrodelta. In addition, CVP may be unable or unwilling to fund its share of capital requirements and our ability to require them to do so is limited. We may not be able to replace production from Petrodelta with new reserves. In general, production rates and remaining reserves from oil and natural gas properties decline as reserves are depleted. The decline rates depend on reservoir characteristics. Our future oil and natural gas production is highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive and uncertain. We may be unable to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or 13 Table of Contents expand our oil and natural gas reserves if cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. We cannot assure you that our future exploration, development and acquisition activities will result in additional proved reserves or that we will be able to drill productive wells at acceptable costs. The legal or fiscal regime for Petrodelta may change and the Venezuelan government may not honor its commitments. While we believe that the Conversion Contract and Petrodelta provide a basis for a more durable arrangement in Venezuela, the value of the investment necessarily depends upon Venezuela’s maintenance of legal, tax, royalty and contractual stability. Our recent experiences in Venezuela demonstrate that such stability cannot be assured. While we have and will continue to take measures to mitigate our risks, no assurance can be provided that we will be successful in doing so or that events beyond our control will not adversely affect the value of our investment in Venezuela. Tax claims by municipalities in Venezuela may adversely affect Harvest Vinccler’s financial condition. The municipalities of Uracoa and Libertador have asserted numerous tax claims against Harvest Vinccler which we believe are without merit. However, the reliability of Venezuela’s judicial system is a source of concern and it can be subject to local and political influences. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 