Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be carefully considered when evaluating us. While approved by our stockholders, the conversion of the OSA to Petrodelta may not be completed and we may not recover our investments or be compensated for our services in Venezuela, and our interests in Venezuela may be unlawfully confiscated by the Venezuelan government. Since April 1, 2006, our operations in Venezuela have continued to be conducted pursuant to the terms of the OSA, which the government no longer recognizes and which it claims is illegal. As such, our future ability to contractually recover all or part of our investments and be compensated for our services depends on completing the process for the conversion of the OSA and transfer of our interests to Petrodelta. If we are unable to convert to Petrodelta, we may not be paid for oil and natural gas produced after March 31, 2006. Further, if we are unable to successfully complete the conversion to Petrodelta, we believe the Venezuelan government will seize our assets and take over Venezuelan operations. Our recourse will be to pursue claims in arbitration for expropriation of our interests or similar claims against the Venezuelan government. An arbitration proceeding may take a number of years to conclude and we can provide no assurances as to outcome. Certain conditions to signing the Conversion Contract may not be met. Before we sign the Conversion Contract, certain conditions must be satisfied, most of which are beyond our control. These conditions include approval by the Venezuelan Ministry of Energy and Petroleum (“MEP”) and the Venezuelan National Assembly; obtaining or filing all necessary consents, authorizations, orders or approvals of governmental authorities; making all necessary filings or registrations with governmental authorities and giving all requisite notifications to governmental authorities; completion of the Conversion Contract and all annexes, including the 11 Table of Contents business plan; and the award of the Isleño, Temblador and El Salto fields to Petrodelta by the Venezuelan government. Until conversion to Petrodelta is complete, we will likely continue to incur expenses without receiving revenues. Even though it is our position that the OSA is still in place, as a result of actions by the government of Venezuela, Harvest Vinccler currently has no recognized agreement setting out its rights and obligations within Venezuela. Harvest Vinccler continues in the day-to-day operations of the SMU fields and continues to incur expenses in doing so; however, there are no contractual means recognized by Venezuela to receive revenues or be reimbursed for costs and expenses during the period prior to the conversion to Petrodelta. Although the MOU provides that upon completion of the conversion, there will be an adjustment between the parties to obtain the same economic result as if the conversion had been completed on April 1, 2006, this adjustment will not occur until and unless the conversion is completed. The timing for completing the conversion to Petrodelta is uncertain. While we continue to maintain cash reserves, our operations in Venezuela represent all of our revenues, and the funds available to pursue our growth strategy may be adversely affected by the financial demands of continued operations in Venezuela during the conversion process. Until the conversion to Petrodelta is complete and drilling operations resume, our production volumes will continue to decline. Since 2005, our volumes of crude oil and natural gas deliveries have declined significantly. The decline is due to PDVSA’s refusal to allow us to carry out our drilling and facilities program for 2005 and 2006 and the natural decline of the field. Until conversion is completed, the resumption of any significant drilling operations is unlikely and the SMU field’s production volumes will continue to decline. If the conversion to Petrodelta is completed, we will be a minority interest owner in Petrodelta. Upon conversion of the OSA to Petrodelta and transfer of our assets to Petrodelta, we will be a minority interest owner and no longer have sole control over operations. Our control of Petrodelta will be limited to our rights under the Conversion Contract and its annexes and the Charter and By-Laws of Petrodelta. As a result, our ability to implement our business plan, assure quality control, and set the timing and pace of development may be adversely affected. If the conversion to Petrodelta is completed, our estimates of reserves may not be realized. Ryder Scott Company, L.P. provided an estimate of reserves attributable to HNR Finance’s interest in the properties to be operated by Petrodelta. We cannot predict whether the volumes of reserves will ultimately be recovered, and volumes of reserves actually recovered may differ significantly from estimated quantities. If the conversion to Petrodelta is completed, our flexibility in selling or exchanging a direct or indirect interest in Petrodelta to diversify our assets and acquire additional properties may be limited. We continue to look at alternatives to diversify our assets. However, the alternatives are limited. If the conversion to Petrodelta is completed, and we decide to enter into a sale or exchange of all or part of our Venezuelan assets with an unrelated third party, the third party must be approved by the Venezuelan government. The number of potential buyers that will be acceptable to the Venezuelan government may be limited, and this number of potential buyers may be further affected and limited by country risk concerns. Further, a sale or exchange of all or part of our Venezuelan assets after completing the conversion to Petrodelta may be subject to U.S. federal tax consequences. If the conversion to Petrodelta is completed, CVP and PPSA might not have the funds available to reimburse us for oil and gas deliveries made during the period prior to conversion. Pursuant to the MOU, CVP has agreed to make an economic adjustment to compensate us so as to achieve the same economic result as if the conversion had been completed on April 1, 2006. This adjustment is to occur once the conversion is completed. However, there are no assurances that CVP and PPSA will have adequate funds to make payment to us for the period dating back to April 1, 2006. The total capital required for development of the fields in Venezuela may exceed the ability of Harvest Vinccler and CVP to finance. Our ability to fully develop the fields in Venezuela will require a significant investment. Our and CVP’s future capital requirements for the development of the SMU fields and the Isleño, Temblador and El Salto fields may exceed the cash available from existing cash flow and cash on hand. Our ability to secure financing is currently limited and uncertain, and has been and may be affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including the risks associated with operating in Venezuela. Because of this financial risk, we 12 Table of Contents may not be able to secure either the equity or debt financing necessary to meet our future cash needs for investment, which may limit our ability to fully develop the properties, cause delays with their development or require early divestment of all or a portion of those projects. Failure by us to meet a capital requirement could be a default under the Conversion Contract and cause the forfeiture of some or all our shares in Petrodelta. In addition, CVP may be unable or unwilling to fund its share of capital requirements and our ability to require them to do so is limited. The loss of key personnel or the ability to establish and retain an experienced and competent workforce in Venezuela could adversely affect our ability to successfully execute our business plan. Our ability to successfully implement the business plan for Petrodelta depends to a large degree on the skills and experience of individuals in key management and operating positions and retaining a capable workforce. We have no assurances that key employees will remain after the conversion to Petrodelta is completed or that Petrodelta will be able to attract and retain competent employees to replace those employees who do not remain with Petrodelta. Moreover, as a minority interest owner in Petrodelta, we have a limited ability to appoint key positions or control decisions on workforce staffing. Pending conversion to Petrodelta, the actions of CVP, through its members to the Petrodelta board and its appointed General Manager or President, may adversely affect our ability to conduct operations and retain key personnel. Contracting policies and procedures of Petrodelta could adversely affect successful execution of the business plan. Successful implementation of the business plan of Petrodelta will require the use of skilled and competitively priced contractors for the development of the fields, including the drilling of wells, building of infrastructure and providing essential services. Due to factors such as global competition and the business climate in Venezuela, contractors, labor, and materials and equipment may not be readily available at competitive prices. Further, as a minority interest owner in Petrodelta, our influence over contracting decisions and contracting policies and procedures is limited. Petrodelta’s business plan will be sensitive to market prices for oil. Petrodelta will be operating under a business plan, the success of which will rely heavily on the market price of oil. To the extent that market values of oil decline, the business plan of Petrodelta may not be successful. A decline in the market price of crude oil could uniquely affect the financial condition of Petrodelta. Under the terms of the Conversion Contract and other governmental documents, Petrodelta is subject to a special advantage tax (“ventajas especiales”) which requires that if in any year the aggregate amount of royalties, taxes and certain other contributions is less than 50 percent of the value of the hydrocarbons produced, Petrodelta must pay the government the difference. In the event of a significant decline in crude prices, the ventajas especiales could force Petrodelta to operate at a loss. Moreover, our ability to control those losses by modifying the business plan or restricting the budget is limited under the Conversion Contract. Oil price declines and volatility could adversely affect Petrodelta’s future, our revenue, cash flows and profitability. Prices for oil fluctuate widely. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and dividends from Petrodelta. Any restrictions on future dividends from Petrodelta may impact our ability to service our Venezuelan debt. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of oil that we can produce economically and lower oil production could affect the amount of natural gas we can produce. We cannot predict future oil prices. Factors that can cause fluctuations in oil prices include: • relatively minor changes in the global supply and demand for oil; • export quotas; • market uncertainty; • the level of consumer product demand; • weather conditions; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and policies; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • political and economic conditions in oil-producing and oil consuming countries; and • overall economic conditions. 13 Table of Contents If the conversion to Petrodelta is not completed, our ability to pursue other transactions will be limited. If the conversion to Petrodelta is not completed, we will continue to assess and consider other strategic alternatives for preserving value, including a transfer of all or part of our Venezuelan assets to another party, and we will continue to pursue other business opportunities and investments unrelated to Venezuela. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully pursue any such strategic alternatives. Without completion of conversion to Petrodelta, the alternatives available to us are more limited and subject to a number of significant variables. The legal or fiscal regime for Petrodelta may change and the Venezuelan government may not honor its commitments. While we believe that the Conversion Contract and Petrodelta provide a basis for a more durable arrangement in Venezuela, the value of the business necessarily depends upon Venezuela’s maintenance of legal, tax, royalty and contractual stability. Our recent experiences in Venezuela demonstrate that such stability should not be assumed because the Venezuelan government may not honor its legal and contractual commitments. While we have and will continue to take measures to mitigate our risks, no assurance can be provided that we will be successful in doing so or that events beyond our control will not adversely affect the value of our business in Venezuela. The actions of the Venezuelan government may cause us to file for international arbitration. As a result of the actions taken by PDVSA, MEP and the SENIAT, we delivered formal notices to Venezuelan government officials of an investment dispute under Venezuelan law and bilateral investment treaties entered into by the government of Venezuela. The bilateral investment treaties and Venezuelan law provide for international arbitration of investment disputes conducted through the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes of the World Bank. An arbitration proceeding may take a number of years to conclude and we can provide no assurances as to its outcome. Continuing to do business in Venezuela is subject to risk. Our operations in Venezuela are subject to various risks including, among other things, loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of hazards such as expropriation, nationalization, change in laws, exchange controls, war, insurrection, civil unrest, strikes and other political risks, being subject to foreign laws, legal systems and the exclusive jurisdiction of Venezuelan courts or tribunals, unilateral renegotiation of contracts with the Venezuelan government and changes in laws and policies governing operations of mixed companies. These factors increase our exposure to production disruptions and project execution risk. Remaining in Venezuela may limit our ability to acquire other oil and gas properties. Under our business plan, Petrodelta may not be a significant source of dividends in its early years. Moreover, our lack of asset diversification and concentration of risk limits our access to both debt and equity capital. Therefore, our near-term growth and diversification must come from unrestricted cash on hand and asset-based lending, rather than cash or debt from our Venezuelan operations. This may limit the size and type of other projects we are able to acquire. Tax claims by municipalities in Venezuela may adversely affect Harvest Vinccler’s financial condition. The municipalities of Uracoa and Libertador have asserted numerous tax claims against Harvest Vinccler which we believe are without merit. However, the reliability of Venezuela’s judicial system is a source of concern and it can be subject to local and political influences. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the tax claims will be overturned. Enforcement of the claims through court order requested by the municipalities, even while the claims are under review, could lead to the seizure of Harvest Vinccler’s assets. Our strategy to focus on Russia and other countries perceived to be politically challenging carries greater deal execution, operating, financial, legal and political risks. While we believe our established presence in countries perceived to be politically challenging and our experience and skills from prior operations position us well for future projects, doing business in Russia and other countries perceived to be politically challenging also carries unique risks. The operating environment is often difficult and the ability to operate successfully will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to control the pace of development, our ability to apply “best practices” in drilling and development, and the fostering of productive and transparent relationships with local partners, the local community and governmental authorities. Financial risks include our ability to control costs and attract financing for our projects. In addition, often the legal systems of these countries are not mature and their reliability is uncertain. This may affect our ability to enforce contracts and achieve certainty in our rights to develop and 14 Table of Contents operate oil and natural gas projects, as well as our ability to obtain adequate compensation for any resulting losses. Our strategy depends on our ability to have operational and financial control. Recently, the Russian government began to consider legislation to restrict certain “strategic” projects in Russia to majority-owned Russian companies. If adopted, such legislation could adversely affect our ability to acquire projects in Russia consistent with our strategy. Operations in areas outside the United States are subject to various risks inherent in foreign operations, and our strategy to focus on countries perceived to be politically challenging limits our risk diversification. Our operations are subject to various risks inherent in foreign operations. These risks may include, among other things, loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of hazards such as expropriation, nationalization, war, insurrection, civil unrest, strikes and other political risks, increases in taxes and governmental royalties, being subject to foreign laws, legal systems and the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts or tribunals, renegotiation of contracts with governmental entities, changes in laws and policies, including taxes, governing operations of foreign-based companies, currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations and other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over our international operations. Our international operations may also be adversely affected by laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign policy, foreign trade, taxation and the possible inability to subject foreign persons to the jurisdiction of the courts in the United States. Our strategy to focus on countries perceived to be politically challenging increases our exposure to operating, financial and political risks. Our cash position and limited ability to access additional capital may limit our growth opportunities. We have used $88.9 million of our cash as collateral for debt in Venezuela, and, until conversion to Petrodelta, there will be no additional cash available from operations. The unfinished conversion to Petrodelta also significantly limits our access to additional capital, and, after conversion, the concentration of our political risk in Venezuela may limit our ability to leverage our assets. In addition, our future cash position depends upon the payment of dividends by Petrodelta, in particular for the period from April 1, 2006 through the date of conversion. While we believe such dividends, if available, will be paid, there is no assurance this will be the case. These factors may limit our ability to grow through the acquisition of additional oil and gas properties and projects. Our foreign operations expose us to foreign currency risk. Presently, our only operations are located in Venezuela. Venezuela is considered a highly inflationary economy. There are many factors which affect foreign exchange rates and resulting exchange gains and losses, many of which are beyond our influence. We have recognized significant exchange gains and losses in the past, resulting from fluctuations in the relationship of the Bolivar to the U.S. Dollar. It is not possible to predict the extent to which we may be affected by future changes in exchange rates. The majority of our Venezuelan receipts are denominated in U.S. Dollars. A large portion of our operating and capital expenditures are in U.S. Dollars. For a discussion of currency controls in Venezuela, see Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Capital Resources. Successful acquisition of projects in any international country may also expose us to foreign currency risk in that country. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are uncertain and inherently imprecise. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Until we complete the conversion to Petrodelta, we will not have reserves to report under SEC guidelines and, accordingly, no reserves are reported as of December 31, 2006. Moreover, our quantities of proved reserves in 2005 were reduced to remove undeveloped reserves because the actions taken by the Venezuelan government created uncertainty as to whether these reserves would be recovered under the economic and operating conditions which existed in Venezuela (“Contractually Restricted Reserves”). The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex requiring significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves likely will vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves set forth. Actual production, revenue, taxes, development expenditures and 15 Table of Contents operating expenses with respect to our reserves will likely vary from the estimates used, and these variances may be material. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues referred to in Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, TABLE V – Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Related to Proved Oil and Natural Gas Reserve Quantities is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are generally based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Any changes in demand, our ability to produce or in governmental regulations, policies or taxation will also affect actual future net cash flows. The timing of both the production and the expenses from the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from estimated proved reserves and their present value. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most accurate discount factor. The effective interest rate at various times and the risks associated with the oil and natural gas industry in general will affect the accuracy of the 10 percent discount factor. We may not be able to replace production with new reserves. In general, production rates and remaining reserves from oil and natural gas properties decline as reserves are depleted. The decline rates depend on reservoir characteristics. We will not have any reserves to report under SEC guidelines until we complete the conversion to Petrodelta or acquire additional properties with proved reserves or conduct successful exploration and development activities. Our future oil and natural gas production is highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive and uncertain. We may be unable to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our oil and natural gas reserves if cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. We cannot assure you that our future exploration, development and acquisition activities will result in additional proved reserves or that we will be able to drill productive wells at acceptable costs. Our operations are subject to numerous risks of oil and natural gas drilling and production activities. Oil and natural gas drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be found. The cost of drilling and completing wells is often uncertain. Oil and natural gas drilling and production activities may be shortened, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • weather conditions; • shortages in experienced labor; • delays in receiving necessary governmental permits; • shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment; • delays in receipt of permits or access to lands; and • government actions or changes in regulations. The prevailing price of oil also affects the cost of and the demand for drilling rigs, production equipment and related services. We cannot assure you the new wells we drill will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment. Drilling for oil and natural gas may be unprofitable. Drilling activities can result in dry wells and wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues after operating and other costs. The oil and natural gas industry experiences numerous operating risks. These operating risks include the risk of fire, explosions, blow-outs, pump and pipe failures, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards. Environmental hazards include oil spills, natural gas leaks, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. If any of these industry operating risks occur, we could have substantial losses. Substantial losses may be caused by injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. In accordance with industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks 16 Table of Contents described above. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be adequate to cover losses or liabilities. We cannot predict the continued availability of insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase. Competition within the industry may adversely affect our operations. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We compete with major, national and independent oil and natural gas companies for the acquisition of desirable oil and natural gas properties and the equipment and labor required to develop and operate such properties. Many of these competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to various governmental regulations that materially affect our operations. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to various foreign governmental regulations. These regulations may be changed in response to economic or political conditions. Matters regulated may include permits for discharges of wastewaters and other substances generated in connection with drilling operations, bonds or other financial responsibility requirements to cover drilling contingencies and well plugging and abandonment costs, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, and unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. At various times, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on oil and natural gas production. In order to conserve or limit supplies of oil and natural gas, these agencies have restricted the rates of flow of oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity. We cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to successfully execute our strategy. We are a small organization and depend on the skills and experience of a few individuals in key management and operating positions to execute our business strategy. Loss of one or more key individuals in the organization could hamper or delay achieving our strategy. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 