Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be carefully considered when evaluating us. Our interests in Venezuela may be unlawfully expropriated by the Venezuelan government. All of our production and operating revenues are derived from Harvest Vinccler through its operations of the South Monagas Unit under the operating service agreement with PDVSA. The government of Venezuela has announced that all operating service agreements will cease to exist in 2006 and that operations under those agreements will be converted to mixed companies in which PDVSA has a controlling interest. The government has stated that it will reclaim the interests of operators who do not convert to a mixed company. While we are engaged in good faith negotiations with MEP and PDVSA for the conversion of Harvest Vinccler’s operating service agreement to a mixed company, there is no assurance that a conversion will be possible under acceptable terms. Based upon the government’s statements and actions, there is a risk that if Harvest Vinccler is unable to agree with Venezuela on the terms of a mixed company, its interests may be unlawfully expropriated or actions may be taken to prevent or render impossible continued operations. Expropriatory acts by Venezuela would likely cause us to seek international arbitration for the loss of our investment. Our only source of production may be reduced further by actions of the Venezuelan government. Harvest Vinccler began the year with average oil deliveries of 29,000 barrels of oil per day (“Bopd”) and is currently averaging about 22,000 Bopd. Natural gas deliveries at the beginning of the year were averaging 79 million cubic feet a day (MMCFpd), and are currently averaging about 56 MMCFpd. The decline is due to PDVSA’s refusal to allow us to carry out our drilling and facilities program for 2005 and the natural decline of the field. In August 2005, we submitted a proposed 2006 work program and budget to PDVSA which, under circumstances where we have reasonable assurances that PDVSA will adhere to the provisions of our operating service agreement, would enable Harvest Vinccler to increase deliveries through an accelerated drilling program. Under the terms of our existing operating service agreement, Harvest Vinccler’s 2006 work program and budget were deemed approved in October 2005. There are discussions on going between Harvest Vinccler and PDVSA on the terms for commencing the 2006 program. Without the ability to drill new wells, crude oil and natural gas volumes will continue to decline. Crude oil volumes for 2005 were also affected by PDVSA’s curtailment of our crude oil deliveries during the first part of the year. PDVSA may curtail us again in the future. Future Payments to Harvest Vinccler may be adversely affected by actions of the Venezuelan government. Harvest Vinccler was paid 28 days late for deliveries in the first quarter of 2005. In addition, the payment was paid 50 percent in Bolivars, notwithstanding the provisions of the operating service agreement which requires all payments to be in U.S. Dollars. Subsequent 2005 quarterly payments for oil and natural gas sales were paid 25 percent in Bolivars. The Bolivar is not readily convertible into the U.S. Dollar; however, at 25 percent Bolivar payment levels, Harvest Vinccler projects that it will be able to utilize its Bolivars to meet local obligations. At the direction of MEP, PDVSA imposed a limit on our maximum total fee equal to two-thirds of the total value of the crude oil delivered to PDVSA beginning January 1, 2005. This caused an underpayment to Harvest Vinccler for deliveries in the first quarter of 2005. In August 2005, Harvest Vinccler signed the Transitory Agreement with PDVSA which included a two-thirds limit on fees, and PDVSA paid the underpaid amount to the extent of that limit. 13 Table of Contents Harvest Vinccler has been paid for oil and natural gas deliveries made through December 31, 2005 and expects to be paid for first quarter 2006 deliveries. Venezuela has not indicated how it intends to pay for deliveries after March 31, 2006, as it has stated that all operating service agreements must be converted to mixed companies by that date. Failure or refusal of PDVSA to pay Harvest Vinccler’s services fees, significant underpayment or withholding of fees, substantial payments by PDVSA in Bolivars, or the inability to convert the Bolivars into U.S. Dollars could, individually or in the aggregate, have a further material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Actions by SENIAT to collect claimed back taxes could threaten the viability of our Venezuelan operations. In 2005, the Venezuelan income tax authority (the “SENIAT”) announced that the income tax rate paid by companies with operating service agreements would be retroactively increased from 34 percent to 67 percent for 2001 and from 34 percent to 50 percent for all years thereafter. The SENIAT completed a tax audit of Harvest Vinccler for the tax years 2001 through 2004, and in July 2005, the SENIAT issued a preliminary tax assessment of 184 billion Bolivars or approximately $85 million at the current exchange rate. In addition, the SENIAT imposed penalties equal to 10 percent of the preliminary tax assessment. A significant part of the preliminary tax assessment received relates to the retroactive increase in taxes above the existing rate of 34 percent. The assessment also relates to the disallowance of some deductions and attribution of additional income. Upon review of the preliminary tax assessment, and after discussions with officials in the SENIAT, Harvest Vinccler determined not to contest two elements of the preliminary tax assessment and made payments totaling $5.3 million. In September and October 2005, Harvest Vinccler filed an answer and evidentiary support with the SENIAT contesting all other elements of the preliminary tax assessment. The SENIAT and Harvest Vinccler have formed a working group to review the tax assessment for possible resolution of these claims. The SENIAT has up to one year to consider Harvest Vinccler’s answer and to determine whether, or to what extent, to issue a final tax assessment. A final tax assessment by the SENIAT may also include additional penalties between 25 percent and 200 percent of the unpaid tax. We are advised that the average penalty imposed by the SENIAT historically has been 112.5 percent of the unpaid tax unless extenuating or aggravating circumstances apply. If a final tax assessment is issued, Harvest Vinccler may file a further administrative appeal with the SENIAT. During the period of review by the SENIAT, any payment obligation is suspended. However, during this period the SENIAT may seek a court order allowing it to take precautionary measures such as attaching assets. After exhausting administrative appeals, Harvest Vinccler may either pay the tax or file a judicial appeal. If a judicial appeal is filed, the payment obligation may be suspended at the discretion of the court. While there are no established rules regarding payment suspension, we understand it is often granted only if the taxpayer posts a bond or other security equal to 210 percent of the final tax assessment. In the event we initiate an international arbitration, we may also seek to include the tax assessment as part of that proceeding. The SENIAT may also be considering additional tax audits of operating companies such as Harvest Vinccler. Despite a four year statute of limitations on tax claims, in January 2006, the head of the SENIAT stated consideration was being given to extending the audits back to 1993. At the current level of the tax assessment and considering possible interest and penalties, attachment of assets by the SENIAT, a determination of the need to take a charge against Harvest Vinccler’s earnings for the tax liability or a requirement to pay the taxes or post security will have a material adverse effect on Harvest Vinccler’s financial condition. A requirement to pay taxes, interest and penalties may exceed Harvest Vinccler’s cash balance. To the extent such events would cause the liabilities of Harvest Vinccler to exceed its assets, Harvest Vinccler would be insolvent. In addition, the implementation of a 50 percent tax rate or other changes in the interpretation or application of the tax laws, without compensating values, will have a material adverse effect on Harvest Vinccler’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We believe that these actions would not impact the cash or cash equivalent position of Harvest Natural Resources, Inc. or its other subsidiaries, which totaled $140.0 million at December 31, 2005. 14 Table of Contents We believe Harvest Vinccler has met its tax obligations in all material respects. We intend to take all measures necessary to protect Harvest Vinccler’s rights, and will vigorously challenge all elements of any tax assessment that are not supported by Venezuelan law. The actions of the Venezuelan government may cause us to file for international arbitration. As a result of the actions taken by PDVSA, MEP and the SENIAT, we delivered formal notices to Venezuelan government officials of an investment dispute under Venezuelan law and bilateral investment treaties entered into by the government of Venezuela. The bilateral investment treaties and Venezuelan law provide for international arbitration of investment disputes conducted through the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes of the World Bank. An arbitration proceeding may take a number of years to conclude and we can provide no assurances as to outcome. It is uncertain how the Venezuelan government might react to an arbitration filing, but it is possible it could lead to a shut down of Harvest Vinccler’s operations. Harvest Vinccler may not be able to reach agreement on the terms of a mixed company and there is a risk any agreement will not receive the necessary approvals. We remain hopeful of reaching a mutually acceptable agreement with the government of Venezuela on converting the operating service agreement to a mixed company while preserving the value of our investment in Harvest Vinccler. We are actively engaged in discussions with government representatives and believe progress has been made. However, significant issues remain and it is not possible to give any assurances as to outcome. In addition, any agreement with PDVSA will require the approval of the Venezuelan National Assembly and of our shareholders. While no assurance can be provided, we believe these approvals would be obtained for any agreement supported by PDVSA, MEP, the SENIAT and us. Our strategy to focus on Russia and other countries perceived to be politically challenging carries deal execution, operating, financial, legal and political risks. While we believe our established presence in countries perceived to be politically challenging and our experience and skills from prior operations position us well for future projects, doing business in Russia and other countries perceived to be politically challenging also carries unique risks. The operating environment is often difficult and the ability to operate successfully will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to control the pace of development, our ability to apply “best practices” in drilling and development, and the fostering of relationships with local partners, the local community and governmental authorities. Financial risks include our ability to control costs and attract financing for our projects. In addition, the legal systems of these countries are not mature and their reliability is uncertain. This may affect our ability to enforce contracts and achieve certainty in our rights to develop and operate oil and natural gas projects, as well as our ability to obtain adequate compensation for any resulting losses. Our strategy depends on our ability to have operational and financial control. Recently, the Russian government has restricted certain “strategic” projects in Russia to majority-owned Russia companies. Such a policy, if widely applied, could adversely affect our ability to acquire projects in Russia consistent with our strategy. Operations in areas outside the U.S. are subject to various risks inherent in foreign operations, and our strategy to focus on countries perceived to be politically challenging limits our risk diversification. Our operations in areas outside the U.S. are subject to various risks inherent in foreign operations. These risks may include, among other things, loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of hazards such as expropriation, nationalization, war, insurrection, civil unrest, strikes and other political risks, increases in taxes and governmental royalties, being subject to foreign laws, legal systems and the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts or tribunals, renegotiation of contracts with governmental entities, changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies, currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations and other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over our international operations. Our international operations may also be adversely affected by laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign policy, foreign trade, taxation and the possible inability to subject foreign persons to the jurisdiction of the courts in the United States. Our strategy to focus on countries perceived to be politically challenging increases the potential impact to us of the operating, financial and political risks in those countries. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to successfully execute our strategy. We are a small organization and depend on the skills and experience of a few individuals in key management and operating positions to execute our business strategy. Loss of one or more key individuals in the organization could hamper or delay achieving our strategy. 15 Table of Contents The total capital required for development of new fields may exceed our ability to finance. Our future capital requirements for new projects may exceed the cash available from existing free cash flow and cash on hand. Our ability to acquire financing is uncertain and has been and may be affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including the risks associated with our sole operations in Venezuela. Because of the financial risk factors in the countries in which we operate, we may not be able to secure either the equity or debt financing necessary to meet any future cash needs for investment, which may limit our ability to fully develop new projects, cause delays with their development or require early divestment of all or a portion of those projects. Our current and future revenue is subject to concentrated counter-party risk. Our current operations in Venezuela rely on service fee payments from PDVSA for all revenue receipts. We do not own the hydrocarbons and do not sell oil and natural gas in open markets. Future projects in Venezuela, Russia and other countries may involve similar production fee payments from a limited number of companies or governments. Our foreign operations expose us to foreign currency risk. Presently, our only operations are located in Venezuela. Venezuela has been considered a highly inflationary economy. Results of operations in highly inflationary countries are measured in U.S. Dollars with all currency gains or losses recorded in the consolidated statement of operations. There are many factors which affect foreign exchange rates and resulting exchange gains and losses, many of which are beyond our influence. We have recognized significant exchange gains and losses in the past, resulting from fluctuations in the relationship of the Bolivar to the U.S. Dollar. It is not possible to predict the extent to which we may be affected by future changes in exchange rates. Our Venezuelan receipts are denominated in U.S. Dollars and Bolivars. Most of our operating and capital expenditures are in U.S. Dollars. For a discussion of currency controls in Venezuela, see Capital Resources and Liquidity under Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Successful acquisition of projects in any international country may also expose us to foreign currency risk in that country. Oil price declines and volatility could adversely affect our revenue, cash flows and profitability. Prices for oil fluctuate widely. The average price we received for oil in Venezuela increased to $24.02 per Bbl for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared with $18.90 per Bbl for the year ended December 31, 2004. In November 2003, we began selling natural gas in Venezuela under an addendum to our operating service contract at $1.03 per Mcf and Incremental Crude Oil at $7.00 per Bbl. While this diversifies our revenue stream, revenues, profitability and future rate of growth depend substantially upon the prevailing prices of oil. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to service our debt. In addition, we may have ceiling test write-downs when prices decline. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of oil that we can produce economically and lower oil production could affect the amount of natural gas we can produce. We cannot predict future oil prices. Factors that can cause this fluctuation include: • relatively minor changes in the global supply and demand for oil; • market uncertainty; • the level of consumer product demand; • weather conditions; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and policies; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • political and economic conditions in oil-producing and oil consuming countries; and • overall economic conditions. Lower oil and natural gas prices or downward adjustments to our reserves may cause us to record ceiling limitation write-downs. We use the full cost method of accounting to report our oil and natural gas operations. Accordingly, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop oil and natural gas properties. Under full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties may not exceed a “ceiling limit” which is based upon the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, discounted at 10 percent, plus the lower of cost or fair market value of unproved properties. The estimated future net cash flows include the impact of effective hedging activity as applicable. If net capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties exceed the ceiling limit, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings. This is called a “ceiling limitation write-down”. This charge does not impact cash flow from operating activities, but does reduce stockholders’ equity. The risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties increases when oil and natural gas prices are low or volatile. In addition, write-downs may occur if we 16 Table of Contents experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. We did not incur ceiling test write-downs in 2005 in the consolidated financial statements of the wholly-owned and majority owned subsidiaries. While our proved reserves were reduced by our Contractually Restricted Reserves as well as other revisions, this did not cause a ceiling limitation write down. Equity in Net Losses of Affiliated Companies includes a $32.3 million (our share) ceiling test write-down recorded by Geoilbent during their fiscal year ended September 30, 2003. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are uncertain and inherently imprecise. This Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves and the estimated future net revenues from such reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. As a result of the actions of the Venezuelan Government, our Contractually Restricted Reserves have been excluded from our proved reserves. See Item 1 – Business, Operations. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. Such process requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves likely will vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves set forth. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices, ability to deliver under the terms of our operating service agreement, approval of capital budgets and permits from PDVSA, the conversion of Harvest Vinccler’s interests to a mixed company in which it is a minority interest owner, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Actual production, revenue, taxes, development expenditures and operating expenses with respect to our reserves will likely vary from the estimates used. Such variances may be material. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues referred to is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are generally based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Any changes in demand, our ability to produce or in governmental regulations, policies or taxation will also affect actual future net cash flows. The timing of both the production and the expenses from the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from estimated proved reserves and their present value. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most accurate discount factor. The effective interest rate at various times and the risks associated with the oil and natural gas industry in general will affect the accuracy of the 10 percent discount factor. We may not be able to replace production with new reserves. In general, production rates and remaining reserves from oil and natural gas properties decline as reserves are depleted. The decline rates depend on reservoir characteristics. Our reserves in the South Monagas Unit in Venezuela will decline as they are produced unless we are able to include Contractually Restricted Reserves, acquire additional properties in Venezuela, Russia or elsewhere with proved reserves or conduct successful exploration and development activities. Our future oil and natural gas production is highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive and uncertain. We may be unable to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our oil and natural gas reserves if cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. We cannot assure you that our future exploration, development and acquisition activities will result in additional proved reserves or that we will be able to drill productive wells at acceptable costs. Our operations are subject to numerous risks of oil and natural gas drilling and production activities. Oil and natural gas drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be found. The cost of drilling and completing wells is often uncertain. Oil and natural gas drilling and production activities may be shortened, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: 17 Table of Contents • unexpected drilling conditions; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • weather conditions; • shortages in experienced labor; • delays in receiving necessary governmental permits; • shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment; • delays in receipt of permits or access to lands; and • government actions or changes in regulations. The prevailing price of oil also affects the cost of and the demand for drilling rigs, production equipment and related services. We cannot assure you that the new wells we drill will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment. Drilling for oil and natural gas may be unprofitable. Drilling activities can result in dry wells and wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues after operating and other costs. The oil and natural gas industry experiences numerous operating risks. These operating risks include the risk of fire, explosions, blow-outs, pump and pipe failures, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards. Environmental hazards include oil spills, natural gas leaks, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. If any of these industry operating risks occur, we could have substantial losses. Substantial losses may be caused by injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. In accordance with industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be adequate to cover losses or liabilities. We cannot predict the continued availability of insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase. Competition within the industry may adversely affect our operations. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We compete with major, national and independent oil and natural gas companies for the acquisition of desirable oil and natural gas properties and the equipment and labor required to develop and operate such properties. Many of these competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to various governmental regulations that materially affect our operations. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to various foreign governmental regulations. These regulations may be changed in response to economic or political conditions. Matters regulated may include permits for discharges of wastewaters and other substances generated in connection with drilling operations, bonds or other financial responsibility requirements to cover drilling contingencies and well plugging and abandonment costs, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, and unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. At various times, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on oil and natural gas production. In order to conserve or limit supplies of oil and natural gas, these agencies have restricted the rates of flow of oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity. We cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 