Risk Factors In addition to other information set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following factors should be carefully considered when evaluating us. Risks Related to Our Business Our cash position and limited ability to access additional capital may limit our growth opportunities. We have no recurring cash flows, and our available cash may not be sufficient to meet capital and operational commitments for the next twelve months. Our future cash position depends primarily upon the successful completion of the second closing sale, but is also impacted by farm-out, or possible sale or otherwise monetization of assets as necessary to maintain the liquidity required to run our operations and capital spending requirements. There is no assurance that the second closing sale will be completed, and under certain circumstances we may be required to repurchase the First Closing Shares at the greater of $125 million or fair value. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity and may limit our ability to grow through the acquisition or exploration of additional oil and gas properties and projects. Our business may be sensitive to market prices for oil and gas. We have made significant investments in our oil and gas properties. As we seek to sell the assets in our portfolio, to the extent market values of oil and gas decline, the valuation of the investments in these projects may be adversely affected. Global market and economic conditions, including those related to the credit markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A general slowdown in economic activity could adversely affect our business by impacting our ability to access additional capital as well as the need to preserve adequate development capital in the interim. We may not be able to meet certain contractual funding requirements. We have added a significant global exploration component to diversify our overall portfolio. In many locations, we may be required to post performance bonds in support of a work program or the work program may include minimum funding requirements to keep the contract. We may not have the funds available to meet the minimum funding requirements when they come due and be required to forfeit the contracts. Our portfolio of hydrocarbon assets in known hydrocarbon basins globally are exposed to greater deal execution, operating, financial, legal and political risks. The environments in which we operate are often difficult and the ability to operate successfully will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to 21 Table of Contents control the pace of development, our ability to apply “best practices” in drilling and development, and the fostering of productive and transparent relationships with local partners, the local community and governmental authorities. Financial risks include our ability to control costs and attract financing for our projects. In addition, often the legal systems of these countries are not mature and their reliability is uncertain. This may affect our ability to enforce contracts and achieve certainty in our rights to develop and operate oil and natural gas projects, as well as our ability to obtain adequate compensation for any resulting losses. Our business depends on our ability to have significant influence over operations and financial control. We do not directly manage operations of Petrodelta. PDVSA, through CVP, exercises substantial control over Petrodelta’s operations, making Petrodelta subject to some internal policies and procedures of PDVSA as well as being subject to constraints in skilled personnel available to Petrodelta. These issues may have an adverse effect on the efficiency and effectiveness of Petrodelta’s operations. We hold a minority equity investment in Petrodelta. Even though we are able to exercise significant influence as a minority equity investor in Petrodelta, our control of Petrodelta is limited to our rights under the Conversion Contract and its annexes and Petrodelta’s charter and bylaws. As a result, our ability to implement or influence Petrodelta’s business plan, assure quality control, and set the timing and pace of development may be adversely affected. In addition, the majority partner, CVP, has initiated and undertaken numerous unilateral decisions that can impact our minority equity investment. Petrodelta’s business plan will be sensitive to market prices for oil. Petrodelta operates under a business plan, the success of which will rely heavily on the market price of oil. To the extent that market values of oil decline, the business plan of Petrodelta may be adversely affected. A decline in the market price of crude oil could uniquely affect the financial condition of Petrodelta. Under the terms of the Conversion Contract and other governmental documents, Petrodelta is subject to a special advantage tax (“ventajas especiales”) which requires that if in any year the aggregate amount of royalties, taxes and certain other contributions is less than 50 percent of the value of the hydrocarbons produced, Petrodelta must pay the government of Venezuela the difference. In the event of a significant decline in crude prices, the ventajas especiales could force Petrodelta to operate at a loss. Moreover, our ability to control those losses by modifying Petrodelta’s business plan or restricting the budget is limited under the Conversion Contract. An increase in oil prices could result in increased tax liability in Venezuela affecting Petrodelta’s operations and profitability, which in turn could affect our dividends and profitability. Prices for oil fluctuate widely. In April 2011, the Venezuelan government published the amended Windfall Profits Tax which establishes a special contribution for extraordinary prices to the Venezuelan government of 20 percent to be applied to the difference between the price fixed by the Venezuela budget for the relevant fiscal year (set at $55 per barrel for 2013) and $80 per barrel. The amended Windfall Profits Tax also establishes a special contribution for exorbitant prices to the Venezuelan government of (1) 80 percent when the average price of the Venezuelan Export Basket (“VEB”) exceeds $80 per barrel but is less than $100 per barrel; (2) 90 percent when the average price of the VEB exceeds $100 per barrel but is less that $110 per barrel; and (3) 95 percent when the average price of the VEB exceeds $110 per barrel. Any increase in the taxes payable by Petrodelta, including the Windfall Profits Tax, as a result of increased oil prices will reduce cash available for dividends to us and our partner, CVP. Oil price declines and volatility could adversely affect Petrodelta’s operations and profitability, which in turn could affect our dividends and profitability. Prices for oil also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and dividends from Petrodelta. Lower prices may also reduce the amount of oil that we can produce economically and lower oil production could affect the amount of natural gas we can produce. We cannot predict future oil prices. Factors that can cause fluctuations in oil prices include: • relatively minor changes in the global supply and demand for oil; • export quotas; 22 Table of Contents • market uncertainty; • the level of consumer product demand; • weather conditions; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and policies; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • political and economic conditions in oil-producing and oil consuming countries; and • overall economic conditions. The total capital required for development of Petrodelta’s assets may exceed the ability of Petrodelta to finance such developments. Petrodelta’s ability to fully develop the fields in Venezuela will require a significant investment. Petrodelta’s future capital requirements for the development of its assets may exceed the cash available from existing cash flow. Petrodelta’s ability to secure financing is currently limited and uncertain, and has been, and may be, affected by numerous factors beyond its control, including the risks associated with operating in Venezuela. Because of this financial risk, Petrodelta may not be able to secure either the equity or debt financing necessary to meet its future cash needs for investment, which may limit its ability to fully develop the properties, cause delays with their development or require early divestment of all or a portion of those projects. This could negatively impact our minority equity investment. If we are called upon to fund our share of Petrodelta’s operations, our failure to do so could be considered a default under the Conversion Contract and cause the forfeiture of some or all our shares in Petrodelta. In addition, CVP may be unable or unwilling to fund its share of capital requirements and our ability to require them to do so is limited. Should PDVSA continue in insufficient monetary support and contractual adherence of Petrodelta, underinvestment in the development plan may lead to continued under-performance. The legal or fiscal framework for Petrodelta may change and the Venezuelan government may not honor its commitments. While we believe that the Conversion Contract and Petrodelta provide a basis for a more durable arrangement in Venezuela, the value of the investment necessarily depends upon Venezuela’s maintenance of legal, tax, royalty and contractual stability. Our experiences in Venezuela demonstrate that such stability cannot be assured. While we have and will continue to take measures to mitigate our risks, no assurance can be provided that we will be successful in doing so or that events beyond our control will not adversely affect the value of our minority equity investment in Petrodelta. PDVSA’s failure to timely pay contractors could have an adverse effect on Petrodelta. PDVSA has failed to pay on a timely basis certain amounts owed to contractors that PDVSA has contracted to do work for Petrodelta. PDVSA purchases all of Petrodelta’s oil production. PDVSA and its affiliates have reported shortfalls in meeting their cash requirements for operations and planned capital expenditures, and PDVSA has fallen behind in certain of its payment obligations to its contractors, including contractors engaged by PDVSA to provide services to Petrodelta. In addition, PDVSA has fallen behind in certain of its payment obligations to Petrodelta, which payments Petrodelta would otherwise use to pay its contractors, including Harvest Vinccler. As a result, Petrodelta is continuing to experience difficulty in retaining contractors who provide services for Petrodelta’s operations. We cannot provide any assurance as to whether or when PDVSA will become current on its payment obligations. Inability to retain contractors or to pay them on a timely basis is continuing to have an adverse effect on Petrodelta’s operations and on Petrodelta’s ability to carry out its business plan. Risks Related to Our Industry Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are uncertain and inherently imprecise. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains estimates of our oil and natural gas reserves. These estimates are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. 23 Table of Contents The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex, requiring significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves likely will vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves set forth. Actual production, revenue, taxes, development expenditures and operating expenses with respect to our reserves will likely vary from the estimates used, and these variances may be material. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues referred to in Item 15. Additional Supplemental Information on Oil and Natural Gas Producing Activities (unaudited) for Petrodelta S.A., TABLE V – Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Related to Proved Oil and Natural Gas Reserve Quantities is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are generally based on the unweighted average price of the first day of the month during the 12-month period before the ending date of the period covered by the reserve report and costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Any changes in demand, changes in our ability to produce or changes in governmental regulations, policies or taxation will also affect actual future net cash flows. The timing of both the production and the expenses from the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from estimated proved reserves and their present value. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most accurate discount factor. The effective interest rate at various times and the risks associated with the oil and natural gas industry in general will affect the accuracy of the 10 percent discount factor. We may not be able to replace production with new reserves. In general, production rates and remaining reserves from oil and natural gas properties decline as reserves are depleted. The decline rates depend on reservoir characteristics. Our future oil and natural gas production is highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive and uncertain. We may be unable to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our oil and natural gas reserves if cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. We cannot give any assurance that our future exploration, development and acquisition activities will result in additional proved reserves or that we will be able to drill productive wells at acceptable costs. Our future operations and our investments in equity affiliates are subject to numerous risks of oil and natural gas drilling and production activities. Oil and natural gas exploration and development drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be found. The cost of drilling and completing wells is often uncertain. Oil and natural gas drilling and production activities may be shortened, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment; • shortages in experienced labor; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • unexpected drilling conditions; • equipment or facilities failures or accidents; • remediation and other costs resulting from oil spills or releases of hazardous materials; • government actions or changes in regulations; • delays in receiving necessary governmental permits; 24 Table of Contents • delays in receiving partner approvals; and • weather conditions. The prevailing price of oil also affects the cost of and availability for drilling rigs, production equipment and related services. We cannot give any assurance that the new wells we drill will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment. Drilling for oil and natural gas may be unprofitable. Drilling activities can result in dry wells and wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues after operating and other costs. We operate in many different jurisdictions and we could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, including the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, which is broader in scope than the FCPA, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government and other officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our internal policies mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. Despite our training and compliance programs, we cannot be assured that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from acts of corruption committed by our employees or agents. Our continued expansion outside the U.S., including in developing countries, could increase the risk of such violations in the future. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Operations in areas outside the United States are subject to various risks inherent in foreign operations. Our operations are subject to various risks inherent in foreign operations. These risks may include, among other things, loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of hazards such as expropriation, nationalization, war, insurrection, civil unrest, strikes and other political risks, increases in taxes and governmental royalties, being subject to foreign laws, legal systems and the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts or tribunals, renegotiation of contracts with governmental entities, changes in laws and policies, including taxes, governing operations of foreign-based companies, currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations and other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over our international operations. Our international operations may also be adversely affected by laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign policy, foreign trade, taxation and the possible inability to subject foreign persons to the jurisdiction of the courts in the United States. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to various governmental regulations that materially affect our operations. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to various governmental regulations. These regulations may be changed in response to economic or political conditions. Matters regulated may include permits for discharges of wastewaters and other substances generated in connection with drilling operations, bonds or other financial responsibility requirements to cover drilling contingencies and well plugging and abandonment costs, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, and unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. At various times, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on oil and natural gas production. In order to conserve or limit supplies of oil and natural gas, these agencies have restricted the rates of the flow of oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity. We cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. We are subject to complex laws that can affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Exploration and development and the production and sale of oil and natural gas are subject to extensive federal, state, local and international regulation. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with environmental and other governmental regulations. Matters subject to regulation include: • the amounts and types of substances and materials that may be released into the environment; • response to unexpected releases to the environment; 25 Table of Contents • reports and permits concerning exploration, drilling, production and other operations; and • taxation. Under these laws, we could be liable for personal injuries, property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs, natural resource damages and other environmental damages. We also could be required to install expensive pollution control measures or limit or cease activities on lands located within wilderness, wetlands or other environmentally or politically sensitive areas. Failure to comply with these laws also may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties as well as the imposition of corrective action orders. Moreover, these laws could change in ways that substantially increase our costs. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The oil and gas business involves many operating risks that can cause substantial losses, and insurance may not protect us against all of these risks. We are not insured against all risks. Our oil and gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and gas, including the risk of: • fires and explosions; • blow-outs; • uncontrollable or unknown flows of oil, gas, formation water or drilling fluids; • adverse weather conditions or natural disasters; • pipe or cement failures and casing collapses; • pipeline ruptures; • discharges of toxic gases; • build up of naturally occurring radioactive materials; and • vandalism. If any of these events occur, we could incur substantial losses as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • severe damage or destruction of property and equipment, and oil and gas reservoirs; • pollution and other environmental damage; • investigatory and clean-up responsibilities; • regulatory investigation and penalties; • suspension of our operations; and • repairs to resume operations. If we experience any of these problems, our ability to conduct operations could be adversely affected. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential risks and losses. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not insurable. Competition within the industry may adversely affect our operations. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We compete with major, national and independent oil and natural gas companies for 26 Table of Contents the acquisition of desirable oil and natural gas properties and the equipment and labor required to develop and operate such properties. Many of these competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to successfully execute our strategy. We are a small organization and depend on the skills and experience of a few individuals in key management and operating positions to execute our business strategy. Loss of one or more key individuals in the organization could hamper or delay achieving our strategy. Tax claims by municipalities in Venezuela may adversely affect Harvest Vinccler’s financial condition. The municipalities of Uracoa and Libertador have asserted numerous tax claims against Harvest Vinccler which we believe are without merit. However, the reliability of Venezuela’s judicial system is a source of concern and it can be subject to local and political influences. Potential regulations regarding climate change could alter the way we conduct our business. Studies over recent years have indicated that emissions of certain gases may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere. In response to these studies, governments have begun adopting domestic and international climate change regulations that requires reporting and reductions of the emission of greenhouse gases. Methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, a by-product of the burning of oil, gas and refined petroleum products, are considered greenhouse gases. Internationally, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol address greenhouse gas emissions, and several countries including the European Union have established greenhouse gas regulatory systems. Any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to incur increased operating and compliance costs, and could have an adverse effect on demand for the oil and gas that we produce and as a result, negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our internal business processes and information systems and modification or interruption of such systems may disrupt our business, processes and internal controls. The proper functioning of our internal business processes and information systems is critical to the efficient operation and management of our business. If these information technology systems fail or are interrupted, our operations may be adversely affected and operating results could be harmed. Our business processes and information systems need to be sufficiently scalable to support the future growth of our business and may require modifications or upgrades that expose us to a number of operational risks. Our information technology systems, and those of third party providers, may also be vulnerable to damage or disruption caused by circumstances beyond our control. These include catastrophic events, power anomalies or outages, natural disasters, computer system or network failures, viruses or malware, physical or electronic break-ins, unauthorized access and cyber attacks. Any material disruption, malfunction or similar challenges with our business processes or information systems, or disruptions or challenges relating to the transition to new processes, systems or providers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to the Sale of Our Venezuelan Interests There is no assurance that the sale of our remaining Venezuelan interests under the Share Purchase Agreement will be completed, and our inability to consummate the proposed sale could harm the market price of our common stock and our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our stockholders fail to authorize the proposed sale of our remaining Venezuelan interests, or if the proposed sale is not completed for any other reason, the market price of our common stock may decline. In addition, failure to complete the proposed sale will result in a reduction in the amount of cash otherwise available to us and, given that we do not currently have any operating cash flow, may substantially limit our ability to implement our business strategy. 27 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that the proposed sale of our remaining Venezuelan interests will be consummated. The consummation of the proposed sale is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of a number of conditions, including, among others, the requirement that we obtain stockholder approval of the proposed sale, the requirement that we obtain approval of the proposed sale from the Government of Venezuela, requirements with respect to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the parties to the Share Purchase Agreement and requirements with respect to the satisfaction or waiver of the covenants and obligations of the parties to the Share Purchase Agreement. In addition, the Share Purchase Agreement may be terminated in certain circumstances under the terms of the Share Purchase Agreement. We cannot guarantee that the parties to the Share Purchase Agreement will be able to meet all of the second closing conditions. If we are unable to meet all of the second closing conditions, Petroandina would not be obligated to close the proposed sale of our remaining Venezuelan interests. We also cannot be sure that circumstances, such as a material adverse effect, will not arise that would also allow Petroandina to terminate the Share Purchase Agreement before the second closing. If the proposed sale is not approved by our stockholders or does not close for another reason, our Board of Directors will be forced to evaluate other alternatives, which may be less favorable to us than the current proposed sale. If the Share Purchase Agreement is terminated: • because our stockholders fail to approve the proposed sale of our remaining Venezuelan interests, we would be required to pay Petroandina a fee of $3.0 million, and Petroandina would have the right to sell back to HNR Energia the 29 percent interest in Harvest Holding acquired in December 2013 at a price equal to the greater of $125 million and the fair market value of the 29 percent interest; • because our Board of Directors changes or withdraws its recommendation that our stockholders vote to approve the proposed sale of our remaining Venezuelan interests or as a result of our or HNR Energia’s intentional breach of our respective obligations with respect to acquisition proposals, we would be required to pay Petroandina a breakup fee of $9.6 million, and Petroandina would have the right to sell back to HNR Energia its 29 percent interest in Harvest Holding at a price equal to the greater of $125 million and the fair market value of the 29 percent interest; • as a result of our breach of any representations or warranties on the date of the Share Purchase Agreement that would give rise to the failure of a closing condition, or our breach of covenants, Petroandina would have the right to sell back to HNR Energia its 29 percent interest in Harvest Holding at an exercise price equal to $125 million payable within five business days of the exercise of the option (unless our breach was intentional, in which case we must also pay the positive difference between the fair market value of the 29 percent interest and $125 million within five business days of the determination of fair market value); • as a result of (i) the second closing not occurring prior to the termination date, (ii) our stockholders having not approved the proposed sale or (iii) our breach of representations, warranties or covenants that gives rise to the failure of a closing condition, then we will also be required to pay Petroandina a breakup fee of $9.6 million if, in certain circumstances, within 12 months of such termination we execute a definitive agreement with respect to, or our Board recommends, an alternative acquisition proposal and we subsequently consummate such an alternative transaction; or • because our Board of Directors determines to accept a superior proposal (as defined in the Share Purchase Agreement), we would be obligated to pay Petroandina a breakup fee of $9.6 million, and Petroandina would have the right to sell back to HNR Energia its 29 percent interest in Harvest Holding for a purchase price described under the put and call provisions in the Share Purchase Agreement. In any case where we would be required to repurchase the Petroandina’s 29 percent interest in Harvest Holding, we would not necessarily have sufficient funds to pay for the shares that we are required to repurchase, 28 Table of Contents and, given that we do not currently have any operating cash flow, we may need additional funds for the sole purpose of purchasing Petroandina’s 29 percent interest in Harvest Holding which would require us to raise additional capital through equity or debt sales. In addition, if the proposed sale of our remaining Venezuelan interests is not consummated, our directors, executive officers and other employees will have expended extensive time and effort during the pendency of the sale and we will have incurred significant transaction costs, in each case, without any commensurate benefit. We are required to obtain the approval of the sale of our Venezuelan interests from the Ministerio del Poder Popular de Petroleo y Mineria representing the Government of Venezuela. There can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain this approval, or that we will be able to obtain this approval on terms reasonably satisfactory to us and Pluspetrol. If this approval is not obtained, then the Share Purchase Agreement may be terminated. While the proposed sale of our remaining Venezuelan interests is pending, it creates uncertainty about our future that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While the proposed sale of our remaining Venezuelan interests is pending, it creates uncertainty about our future. As a result of this uncertainty, our current or potential business partners may decide to delay, defer or cancel entering into new business arrangements with us pending completion or termination of the proposed sale. In addition, while the proposed sale is pending, we are subject to a number of risks, including: • the diversion of management and employee attention from our day-to-day business; • the potential disruption to business partners and other service providers; and • the possible inability to respond effectively to competitive pressures, industry developments and future opportunities. The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. If the proposed sale of our remaining Venezuelan interests is not completed, there may not be any other offers from potential acquirors. If the proposed sale of our remaining Venezuelan interests is not completed, we may seek another purchaser for our interests in Venezuela. There can be no assurances that we would be able to enter into meaningful discussions or to otherwise complete any transaction with any other party who may have an interest in purchasing our Venezuelan interests on terms acceptable to us. The Share Purchase Agreement may expose us to contingent liabilities. Under the Share Purchase Agreement, we have agreed to indemnify Petroandina for a breach or inaccuracy of any representation, warranty or covenant made by us in the Share Purchase Agreement, subject to certain limitations. Significant indemnification claims by Petroandina could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. There is no guarantee that you will receive any of the net cash proceeds from the proposed sale of our remaining Venezuelan interests in the form of dividends, and we could spend or invest the net cash proceeds from the proposed sale in ways in which our stockholders may not agree. The purchase price for the sale of our interests in Venezuela will be paid directly to us. After the payment of expenses related to the proposed sale (including taxes) and reservation of some of the proceeds for operating costs and contingent liabilities, any use of the remaining proceeds will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and based on its determination of what is in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders at the time of determination. Our Board of Directors could decide that we should use all or a significant portion of the net cash proceeds from the sale for purposes other than paying dividends, including continuing the Company’s business. 29 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 