Item 1A. Risk Factors Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Our business has been, and may continue to be, significantly impacted by the deterioration in general global economic conditions, and the current economic uncertainty makes it more likely that our actual results could differ from expectation, particularly in regards to demand for our products. Global credit and financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruptions in recent months, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates and uncertainty about economic stability. There can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in these conditions. These economic uncertainties affect businesses like ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. Purchase decisions for our products are made by corporations, governments, educational institutions and consumers based on their overall available budget for information technology products. The current overall economic condition and the tightening of credit in financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing or future orders with us. The volatility in the credit markets has severely diminished liquidity and capital availability. This could result in the insolvency of key suppliers or product delays; inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products or default on accounts receivable; or our inability to obtain additional financing. Any number of factors impacting the global economy, including geopolitical issues, balance of trade concerns, inflation, interest rates, currency fluctuations and consumer confidence, can impact the overall spending climate, both positively and negatively, in one or more geographies for our products. Demand outside the U.S. could differ materially from our expectations due to the effect of the strengthening U.S. dollar, a trend that has been very pronounced recently. Deterioration in any one or combination of these factors could change overall industry dynamics and demand for discretionary products like ours and negatively impact our results of operations. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions could also continue to increase the volatility of our stock price. We may need to raise additional financing if our financial results do not improve. We sustained an operating loss of $22.7 million and $27.5 million, respectively, during 2008 and 2007, contributing to a decrease in net working capital of $37.1 million and $15.0 million during the respective time periods. If we continue to experience significant operating losses and reductions in net working capital, we may need to obtain additional debt or equity financing to continue current business operations. There is no guarantee that we will be able to raise additional funds on favorable terms, if at all. If we fail to meet all applicable continued listing requirements of The NASDAQ Global Market and NASDAQ determines to delist our common stock, the market liquidity and market price of our common stock could decline. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. In order to maintain that listing, we must satisfy minimum financial and other continued listing requirements. For example, NASDAQ rules require that we maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share for our common stock. Our common stock is currently and has in the past fallen below this minimum bid price requirement and it may do so again in the future. NASDAQ has currently suspended this bid price requirement through April 20, 2009. However, if NASDAQ does not further extend this suspension and our stock price is below $1.00 at the time the suspension is lifted or falls below $1.00 after that time or if we in the future fail to meet other requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market if we are unable to cure the events of noncompliance in a timely or effective manner. If our common stock were threatened with delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market, we may, depending on the circumstances, request approval by our stockholders to implement a reverse stock split in order to regain compliance with NASDAQ’s minimum bid price requirement. If our common stock is not eligible for quotation on another market or exchange, trading of our common stock could be conducted in the over-the-counter market or on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as 8 Table of Contents the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. In such event, it could become more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations for the price of our common stock. There would likely also be a reduction in our coverage by security analysts and the news media, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline further. We may not fully realize the expected operating efficiencies from our restructuring plans or the plans may not be successful. Over the last three years, we have implemented a series of restructuring plans, key initiatives and outsourcing programs designed to achieve the goal of simplifying the business and returning the company to profitability. As part of the restructuring plans, we have implemented actions to reduce our cost to serve customers, improve our supply chain efficiency, reduce our product costs and reduce our operating expenses. Our goal as a result of these actions was to improve gross margins and reduce our operating expenses to a level that will allow us to achieve breakeven or better results. We have faced a number of challenges related to our restructuring plans including uncertainties associated with the impact of our actions on revenues and gross margins as well as factors outside our control such as changes in the economic environment. We cannot be assured that we will achieve or sustain the targeted benefits under these programs, which could result in further restructuring efforts. The implementation of key elements of these programs, such as employee job reductions and office closures, may have an adverse impact on our business, particularly in the near-term. If our restructuring plans are not successful, our business and results of operations may be negatively impacted. If our contract manufacturers or other outsourced service providers experience any delay, disruption or quality control problems in their operations, we could lose market share and revenues, and our reputation may be harmed. We have outsourced the manufacturing of our products to third party manufacturers. We rely on our contract manufacturers to procure components, provide spare parts in support of our warranty and customer service obligations, perform warranty repair activities on our behalf, and in some cases, subcontract engineering work. We generally commit the manufacturing of each product platform to a single contract manufacturer. In addition, going forward, we will be placing more reliance on our contract manufacturers for design activities related to our core projection products, as we move to outsource a larger percentage of our research and development work. Our reliance on contract manufacturers exposes us to the following risks over which we may have limited control: • Unexpected increases in manufacturing and repair costs; • Interruptions in shipments if our contract manufacturer is unable to complete production; • Inability to completely control the quality of finished products; • Inability to completely control delivery schedules; • Unpredictability of manufacturing yields; • Changes in our contract manufacturer’s business models or operations; • Our contract manufacturer’s willingness to extend us sufficient credit; • Potential loss of differentiation in our products compared to our competitors; • Potential lack of adequate capacity to manufacture all or a part of the products we require; and • Reduced control over the availability of our products. Our contract manufacturers are located in Asia and may be subject to disruption by natural disasters, as well as political, social or economic instability. The temporary or permanent loss of the services of any of our primary contract manufacturers could cause a significant disruption in our product supply chain and operations and delays in product shipments. In addition, we do not have long-term contracts with any of our third-party contract manufacturers and these contracts are terminable by either party on relatively short notice. In addition, we outsourced a portion of our U.S. customer service and technical support call center to a third party provider. We rely on this third party to provide efficient and effective support to our customers and partners. To the extent our customers are not satisfied with the level of service provided by our third 9 Table of Contents party provider we may lose market share and our revenues and corporate reputation could be negatively affected. Our competitors may have greater resources and technology, and we may be unable to compete with them effectively. The markets for our products are highly competitive and we expect aggressive price competition in our industry, especially from Asian manufacturers, to continue into the foreseeable future. Some of our current and prospective competitors have, or may have, significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources than we have. In order to compete effectively, we must continue to reduce the cost of our products, our manufacturing and other overhead costs, incorporate differentiating features in our products that are valued by our customers, focus on the right channel sales models and reduce our operating expenses in order to offset declining selling prices for our products, while at the same time growing our presence in the markets we are in and driving our products into new markets. There is no assurance we will be successful with respect to these factors. Our products face competition from alternate technologies and we may be unable to compete with them effectively. In addition to competition within the projector industry, our products also face competition from alternate technologies such as LCD and plasma televisions and displays. Our ability to compete depends on factors within and outside our control, including the success and timing of product introductions, product performance and price, product distribution and customer support and adoption of our products. Our inability to successfully manage these factors could lead to reduced revenues or a greater chance of our customers shifting their purchases to alternate technologies. If we are unable to manage the cost of older products or successfully introduce new products with higher gross margins, our revenues may decrease or our gross margins may decline. The market in which we compete is subject to technological advances with continual new product releases and aggressive price competition. As a result, the price at which we can sell our products typically declines over the life of the product. The price at which a product is sold is generally referred to as the average selling price (“ASP”). In order to sell products that have a declining ASP and still maintain our gross margins, we need to continually reduce our product costs. To manage product-sourcing costs, we must collaborate with our contract manufacturers to engineer the most cost-effective design for our products. In addition, we must carefully monitor the price paid by our contract manufacturers for the significant components used in our products. We must also successfully manage our freight and inventory holding costs to reduce overall product costs. We also need to continually introduce new products with improved features and increased performance at lower costs in order to maintain our overall gross margins. Our inability to successfully manage these factors could reduce revenues or result in declining gross margins. In addition, our increased reliance on our contract manufacturers for design and development work could enhance the risks described above. Our revenues and profitability can fluctuate from period to period and are often difficult to predict for particular periods due to factors beyond our control. Our results of operations for any individual quarter or for the year are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Our operating results have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, subject to quarterly and yearly fluctuations as a result of a number of factors, including: • The introduction and market acceptance of new technologies, products and services; • Variations in product selling prices and costs and the mix of products sold; • The size and timing of customer orders, including government and education tenders, which, in turn, often depend upon the success of our customers’ business or specific products or services; • Changes in the economic conditions in the markets for projectors and alternative technologies; • The impacts of fluctuations in foreign currencies against the United States dollar in the foreign markets we serve; • The size and timing of capital expenditures by our customers; • Conditions in the broader markets for information technology and communications equipment; 10 Table of Contents • The timing and availability of products coming from our offshore contract manufacturing partners; • Changes in the supply of components; and • Seasonality of markets such as education, government and consumer retail, which vary quarter to quarter and are influenced by outside factors such as overall consumer confidence, budgets and political party changes. These trends and factors could harm our business, operating results and financial condition in any particular period. Our operating expenses and portions of our costs of revenues are relatively fixed and we may have limited ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. Our operating expenses, inbound freight and inventory handling costs are relatively fixed. Because we typically recognize a significant portion of our revenues in the last month of each quarter, we may not be able to adjust our operating expenses or other costs sufficiently to adequately respond to any revenue shortfalls. If we are unable to reduce operating expenses or other costs quickly in response to any revenue shortfall, it could negatively impact our financial results. If we are unable to accurately predict the future needs of our customer base as it relates to sales channel inventory levels we may incur unexpected declines in revenues and gross margins. If factors in the marketplace change that negatively impact the purchase of our products or we are not able to accurately predict the sales channel inventory needs of our larger customers, we may experience declines in our revenue and gross margins. If demand for our products declines or is not sufficient to deplete existing inventory in our sales channels this will generally have an adverse effect on future revenues. If we do not effectively manage our sales channel inventory and product mix, we may incur costs associated with excess inventory or experience declining gross margins. If we are unable to properly monitor, control and manage our sales channel inventory and maintain an appropriate level and mix of products with our customers within our sales channels, we may incur increased and unexpected costs associated with this inventory. We generally allow distributors, dealers and retailers to return a limited amount of our products in exchange for placing an order for other new products. In addition, under our price protection policy, subject to certain conditions, which vary around the globe, if we reduce the list price of a product, we may issue a credit in an amount equal to the price reduction for each of the products held in inventory by our distributors, dealers and retailers. If these events occur, we could incur increased expenses associated with rotating and reselling product, or inventory reserves associated with writing down returned inventory, or suffer declining gross margins. If we cannot continually develop new and innovative products and integrate them into our business, we may be unable to compete effectively in the marketplace. Our industry is characterized by continuing improvements in technology and rapidly evolving industry standards. Consequently, short product life cycles and significant price fluctuations are common. Product transitions present challenges and risks for all companies involved in the data/video digital projector and display markets. Demand for our products and the profitability of our operations may be adversely affected if we fail to effectively manage product transitions. Advances in product technology require continued investment in research and development and product engineering to maintain our market position. There are no guarantees that such investment will result in the right products being introduced to the market at the right time. In addition, our increased reliance on our contract manufacturers for design and development work could enhance the risks described above. If we are unable to provide our contract manufacturers with an accurate forecast of our product requirements, we may experience delays in the manufacturing of our products and the costs of our products may increase. We provide our contract manufacturers with a rolling forecast of demand which they use to determine their material and component requirements. Lead times for ordering materials and components vary significantly and depend on various factors, such as the specific supplier, contract terms and supply and 11 Table of Contents demand for a component at a given time. Some of our components have long lead times measuring as much as 4 to 6 months from the point of order. If our forecasts are less than our actual requirements, our contract manufacturers may be unable to manufacture sufficient products to meet actual demand in a timely manner. If our forecasts are too high, our contract manufacturers may be unable to use the components they have purchased. The cost of the components used in our products tends to decline as the product platform and technologies mature. Therefore, if our contract manufacturers are unable to promptly use components purchased on our behalf, our cost of producing products may be higher than our competitors due to an over-supply of higher-priced components. Moreover, if they are unable to use certain components, we may be required to reimburse them for any potential inventory exposure they incur within lead time. Our failure to anticipate changes in the supply of product components or customer demand may result in excess or obsolete inventory that could adversely affect our gross margins. Substantially all of our products are made for immediate delivery on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term agreements. As a result, contract manufacturing activities are scheduled according to a monthly sales and production forecast rather than on the receipt of product orders or purchase commitments. From time to time in the past, we have experienced significant variations between actual orders and our forecasts. If there were to be a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing prices of product components, rapidly changing technology and customer requirements or an increase in the supply of products in the marketplace, we could be required to write-down our inventory and our gross margins could be adversely affected. Our contract manufacturers may be unable to obtain critical components from suppliers, which could disrupt or delay our ability to procure our products. We rely on a limited number of third party manufacturers for the product components used by our contract manufacturers. Reliance on suppliers raises several risks, including the possibility of defective parts, reduced control over the availability and delivery schedule for parts and the possibility of increases in component costs. Manufacturing efficiencies and our profitability can be adversely affected by each of these risks. Certain components used in our products are now available only from single sources. Most importantly, DLP® devices are only available from Texas Instruments. The majority of our current products are based on DLP® technology making the continued availability of DLP® devices very important. Our contract manufacturers also purchase other single or limited-source components for which we have no guaranteed alternative source of supply, and an extended interruption in the supply of any of these components could adversely affect our results of operations. We have worked to improve the availability of lamps and other key components to meet our future needs, but there is no guarantee that we will secure all the supply we need to meet demand for our products. Furthermore, many of the components used in our products are purchased from suppliers located outside the U.S. Trading policies adopted in the future by the U.S. or foreign governments could restrict the availability of components or increase the cost of obtaining components. Any significant increase in component prices or decrease in component availability could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Product defects resulting in a large-scale product recall or successful product liability claims against us could result in significant costs or negatively impact our reputation and could adversely affect our business results and financial condition. As with any high tech manufacturing company, we are sometimes exposed to warranty and potential product liability claims in the normal course of business. There can be no assurance that we will not experience material product liability losses arising from such potential claims in the future and that these 12 Table of Contents will not have a negative impact on our reputation and, consequently, our revenues. We generally maintain insurance against most product liability risks and record warranty provisions based on historical defect rates, but there can be no assurance that this insurance coverage and these warranty provisions will be adequate for any potential liability ultimately incurred. In addition, there is no assurance that insurance will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A successful claim that exceeds our available insurance coverage or a significant product recall could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. SMT, our joint venture with TCL Corporation, was not successful in implementing its business plan and has ceased operations. SMT, our 50-50 joint venture with TCL Corporation, was not successful in executing its business plan, primarily a result of failing to secure third party OEM customers for its products. As a result, the parent companies sought alternatives for funding ongoing operations at SMT without success. During the third quarter of 2006, SMT began the process of winding down its operations in an orderly fashion, including the sale of its assets and the negotiation of the settlement of its outstanding liabilities. At December 31, 2008, the majority of SMT employees had been laid off and only those employees working on the wind-down of the company remained. During 2006, we completely wrote off our initial investment in SMT and also recorded a charge for our share of estimated additional wind-down costs. We are uncertain how long it may take to complete the wind-down of SMT. There can be no assurance that we will not incur additional costs as SMT completes the wind-down process. Customs or other issues involving product delivery from our contract manufacturers could prevent us from timely delivering our products to our customers. Our business depends on the free flow of products. Due to continuing threats of terrorist attacks, U.S. Customs has increased security measures for products being imported into the U.S. In addition, increased freight volumes and work stoppages at west coast ports have, in the past, and may, in the future, cause delays in freight traffic. Each of these situations could result in delay of receipt of products from our contract manufacturers and delay fulfillment of orders to our customers. Any significant disruption in the free flow of our products may result in a reduction of revenues, an increase of in-transit inventory, or an increase in administrative and shipping costs. We are subject to risks associated with exporting products outside the U.S. To the extent we export products outside the U.S., we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including, but not limited to, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, the Export Administration Regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control within the Department of the Treasury. A determination that we have failed to comply with one or more of these export controls could result in civil and/or criminal sanctions, including the imposition of fines upon us, the denial of export privileges, and debarment from participation in U.S. government contracts. Any one or more of such sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to risks associated with our international operations. Revenues outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 52% and 43%, respectively, of our revenues in 2008 and 2007. As a result of a significant portion of our revenue being derived outside of the U.S., our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly affected by numerous risks and uncertainties associated with international activities, including: • local economic and labor conditions; • political instability; • terrorist acts; • unexpected changes in the regulatory environment; • trade protection measures; • tax laws; and • changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus local currencies. 13 Table of Contents Currency exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our financial results. To the extent that we incur product costs in one currency and make our sales in another, our gross margins may be affected by changes in the exchange rates between the two currencies. Our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relates to non-U.S. dollar denominated sales in Europe and certain parts of Asia, as well as non-U.S. dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency-denominated asset, liabilities, sales and earnings, and generally will cause us to raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for our products. In some circumstances, due to competition or other reasons, we may decide not to raise local prices, which would adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency denominated sales and earnings. In the past our general policy was to hedge against balance sheet currency transaction risks on a monthly basis. However, given the volatility of currency exchange rates and the high cost of hedging we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to effectively manage these risks or will continue our hedging program in the future. Volatility in currency exchange rates may generate foreign exchange losses, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our reliance on third-party logistics and customer service providers may result in customer dissatisfaction or increased costs. We have outsourced all of our logistics and service repair functions worldwide. We are reliant on our third-party providers to effectively and accurately manage our inventory, service repair, and logistics functions. This reliance includes timely and accurate shipment of our products to our customers and quality service repair work. Reliance on third parties requires proper training of employees, creating and maintaining proper controls and procedures surrounding both forward and reverse logistics functions, and timely and accurate inventory reporting. In addition, reliance on third parties requires adherence to product specifications in order to ensure quality and reliability of our products. Failure of our third parties to deliver in any one of these areas could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we outsourced our U.S. customer service and technical support call center to a third-party provider. We rely on this third party to provide efficient and effective support to our customers and partners. To the extent our customers are not satisfied with the level of service provided by our third-party provider we may lose market share and our revenues and corporate reputation could be negatively impacted. We may be unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property rights. Our ability to compete effectively against other companies in our industry depends, in part, on our ability to protect our current and future proprietary technology under patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws. We utilize contract manufacturers in China and Taiwan, and anticipate doing increased business in these markets and elsewhere around the world including other emerging markets. These emerging markets may not have the same protections for intellectual property that are available in the U.S. We cannot make assurances that our means of protecting our intellectual property rights in the U.S. or abroad will be adequate, or that others will not develop technologies similar or superior to our trade secrets or design around our patents. In addition, management may be distracted by, and we may incur substantial costs in, attempting to protect our intellectual property. Also, despite the steps taken by us to protect our intellectual property rights, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy or reverse-engineer trade secret aspects of our products, develop similar technology independently or otherwise obtain and use information that we regard as our trade secrets, and we may be unable to successfully identify or prosecute unauthorized uses of our intellectual property rights. Further, with respect to our issued patents and patent applications, we cannot provide assurance that pending patent applications (or any future patent applications) will be issued, that the scope of any patent protection will exclude competitors or provide competitive advantages to us, that any of our patents will be held valid if subsequently challenged, or that others will not claim rights in or ownership of the patents (and patent applications) and other intellectual property rights held by us. 14 Table of Contents If we become subject to intellectual property infringement claims, we could incur significant expenses and could be prevented from selling specific products. We are periodically subject to claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. We cannot provide assurance that, if and when made, these claims will not be successful. Intellectual property litigation is, by its nature, expensive and unpredictable. Any claim of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim even if the claim is invalid, and could distract management from other business. Any potential judgment against us could require substantial payment in damages and also could include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering certain products. We rely on large distributors and other large customers for a significant portion of our revenues, and changes in price or purchasing patterns could lower our revenues or gross margins. We sell our products through large distributors such as Ingram Micro and Tech Data and through a number of other customers and channels. We rely on our larger distributors and other large customers for a significant portion of our total revenues in any particular period. We have no minimum purchase commitments or long-term contracts with any of these customers. Our customers, including our largest customers, could decide at any time to discontinue, decrease or delay their purchases of our products. In addition, the prices that our distributors pay for our products are subject to competitive pressures and change frequently. If any of our major customers change their purchasing patterns or refuse to pay the prices that we set for our products, our net revenues and operating results could be negatively impacted. If our large distributors and retailers increase the size of their product orders without sufficient lead-time for us to process the order, our ability to fulfill product demand could be compromised. In addition, because our accounts receivable are concentrated within our largest customers, the failure of any of them to pay on a timely basis, or at all, could reduce our cash flow or result in a significant bad debt expense. In order to compete, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In order to compete, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, including those in managerial, operations, engineering, service, sales, marketing, and support positions. Hiring and retaining qualified employees in all areas of the company is critical to our business. Our international employees are on contracts or letter agreements with short notice periods. Each of our U.S. employees is an “at will employee” and may terminate his/her employment without notice and without cause or good reason. We depend on our officers, and, if we are not able to retain them, our business may suffer. Due to the specialized knowledge each of our officers possess with respect to our business and our operations, the loss of service of any of our officers could adversely affect our business. We do not carry key person life insurance on our officers. Each of our officers is an “at will employee” and may terminate his/her employment without notice and without cause or good reason. During 2007 and early 2008, we experienced several changes in our executive officers, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer. Changes at the executive officer level may cause delays in achieving our operational goals and plans as new individuals learn the business. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise that lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. For example, we are required to make judgments or take certain tax positions in relation to income taxes in both U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. To the extent a taxing authority takes a position different from ours and we are unsuccessful in defending our position, the outcome of that decision could impact the amount of income tax expense recorded in the period these new positions are known. 15 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 