Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain matters discussed in this Form 10-K, or documents, a portion of which are incorporated by reference, concerning, among other things, the business outlook, including growth, cost savings, anticipated financial and operating results, strategies and contingencies, constitute forward-looking statements and are based upon management’s expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting the Company. There can be no assurance that these events will occur or that the Company’s results will be as estimated. The assumptions used as a basis for the forward-looking statements include many estimates that, among other things, depend on the achievement of future cost savings and projected volume increases. In addition, many factors outside the control of the Company, including the prices and availability of the Company’s products, potential competitive pressures on selling prices and fuel prices, as well as general economic conditions in the markets in which the Company operates, also could impact the realization of such estimates. The following factors, as well as factors described elsewhere in the Form 10-K, or in other SEC filings, among others, could cause the Company’s future results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, the Company. These factors are described in accordance with the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 8 Economy. The Company’s business follows the U.S. economy and, in particular, the health of the commercial real estate sector. Although the U.S. economy has grown over the past two years, there is no assurance this growth or this level of output will continue. In addition, further interest rate hikes could stifle the economy and the real estate sector such that there would be no growth or even a decline which would negatively impact our business. Competition. The Company experiences intense competition for sales of its principal products. The Company has several major competitors in each of its markets, some of which are larger and have more resources than the Company. The principal methods and elements of the competition include product quality, product breadth, product availability, price, credit terms and delivery services. Inherent risks in the Company’s competitive strategy include uncertainties concerning the effects of consolidation of suppliers and distribution channels, the lack of barriers to entry and competitive reaction. Increased competition with respect to pricing would reduce revenue and profitability and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial position. Personnel. A key component of our strategy is to provide value to our customers by building relationships and establishing a trusting working environment between our customers, our vendors and our staff. The Company provides competitive compensation, benefits and other factors that have attracted our current staff. In addition, hiring and training of additional staff is a key component to our growth plan. However, there can be no assurance that our staff will remain employed by the Company, or that the Company will be able to hire and train replacement or additional staff. Loss of staff could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial results. Non-recurring Revenue and Collection of Accounts Receivable. Over the past two years the Company has benefited from several disasters. For example, the Company benefited from the hurricanes that damaged Florida in 2004 and the hurricanes that damaged Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama in 2005. There are numerous factors in determining if a disaster will result in business for the Company. Some of these factors are (1) the strength and size of the disaster, (2) the density of structures/population of the affected area and (3) our customers must be part of the team of contractors that are responding to the disaster. There are no assurances that there will be another disaster that benefits the Company. Much of the work performed during these disasters is ultimately paid by the Federal government or by insurance companies. There is risk in the timeliness of collection of the monies owed to our customers from these entities, which can result in a slow down of payments made the Company. This slowdown could stress the financial resources of the Company significantly. In addition, events like these attract people and companies that may not be competent or equipped to handle the magnitude of the projects which increases the risk for collection. While we follow our normal credit application process to determine the credit worthiness of these potential customers, there is no assurance amounts will ultimately be collected. However, the Company believes its reserves are adequate to cover any collection issues. Cost Controls. The Company has made strategic investments in its information systems and has other plans to improve our cost structure. There is no assurance that such cost savings will be achieved. 9 Products. A number of the Company’s products, such as plastic sheeting and bags, contain certain materials which are principally derived from petroleum. These products are subject to price fluctuations based on changes in petroleum prices, availability and other factors. Significant increases in prices for these products, as we experienced in 2005 and 2006, could adversely affect earnings if the Company does not or is unable to increase its selling price to customers or if adjustment to our selling price to customers significantly trails the increases in the cost of the products to us. Global economic and political conditions, especially in China, supplier capacity constraints, severe weather conditions and other factors could materially affect the availability of or prices for certain products. Many customers in the industries we serve are brand conscious. If the relationships with certain vendors were to be discontinued, there would be a negative impact on the financial results of the Company. Fuel Costs. We depend heavily on third party delivery services as well as our own fleet of delivery vehicles. Fuel costs are a component of the total cost of shipments inbound from our vendors and shipments outbound to our customers. Significant increases in fuel prices could adversely affect earnings if the Company does not or is unable to pass along increases to customers. Internal Controls over Financial Reporting. We expect to expend significant resources in developing the necessary documentation and testing procedures and performing the testing required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX 404”). The total expenditure is currently estimated to be $800,000; however, the level of effort and resources needed to comply could change significantly. In addition, if management identifies any significant deficiency or material weakness, we may be unable to attest to our internal controls and investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and our ability to obtain equity or debt financing may be negatively impacted. Low Float and Volatility of Stock Price. The low number of outstanding shares and resulting low amount of shares available for trade in the open market place can result in extreme volatility in the Company’s stock price. Not only can the volatility of the stock price be concerning to long-term investors, but it could increase the difficulty in utilizing the stock to obtain capital for growth. Interruptions in the Proper Functioning of Information Systems. The continued proper functioning of our information systems is critical to operations of our business. Although our information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards, these systems remain vulnerable to both intentional and unintentional issues. For example, these systems are vulnerable to power interruptions, unauthorized physical access, unauthorized access to the system (hacking), communication interruptions, hardware failure, software corruption and natural disasters. If the critical information systems fail or are unusable, our ability to conduct normal business could be severely affected. 10 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 