Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Other risks and uncertainties are disclosed in Radiant’s prior Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) filings. These and many other factors could affect Radiant’s future financial condition and operating results and could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations based on forward-looking statements made in this document or elsewhere by Radiant or on its behalf. Radiant undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements. The following information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Founded in 1985 and headquartered in Alpharetta, Georgia, Radiant Systems, Inc. (the “Company” or “Radiant”) is a leading provider of innovative technology focused on the development, installation and delivery of solutions for managing site operations in the hospitality and retail industries. Radiant focuses on delivering site systems, including point-of-sale (POS), self-service kiosks, mobile ordering and payment devices, back-office systems, site management technology and business services such as customer loyalty programs, electronic gift card management, comprehensive reporting systems management, payment processing and centralized data management designed specifically for the Company’s two reportable segments: (i) Hospitality and (ii) Retail. For selected financial information about our business segments, see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this report. Radiant’s offerings include software products, site hardware, professional services and support services. Each product can be purchased independently or as a suite of integrated products to address the customer’s specific business needs. These products and services enable our customers to drive top-line growth and improve bottom-line performance. Radiant offers best-of-breed solutions designed for ease of integration with operators’ existing infrastructures. Radiant’s technology enables hospitality and retail operators to improve customer service while reducing costs. Radiant’s solutions provide visibility and control at the site, field and headquarters levels. Additionally, Radiant focuses on addressing the unique requirements of the highly specialized environments in which its customers operate. These environments require a high degree of reliability, specialized functionality and peripheral compatibility. Using Radiant’s point-of-sale, customer self-service, back-office technology and business services, our customers are able to improve customer service and loyalty, improve speed of service, increase revenue per transaction, and reduce fraud and shrink. Radiant’s full line of open, standards-based hardware allows operators to deploy advanced technology built specifically for the environment in which they operate. Management believes its current generation of point-of-sale, customer self-service and hand-held ordering and payment devices, which utilize Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows XP Embedded and Windows CE operating systems, represents an innovative platform based on an open, modular software and hardware architecture that offers increased functionality and stability compared to other systems in the marketplace, at a lower total cost of ownership. In January 2006, Radiant extended its reach into the retail industry by acquiring substantially all of the assets of Synchronics, Inc. (“Synchronics”), a leading provider of business management and point-of-sale software for the retail market. Synchronics had an experienced team which had developed an outstanding set of products that are distributed through a national network of dealer partners. Through the combination of Radiant and Synchronics product lines and services, the Company brings tightly integrated, high value product and service offerings to the marketplace. The Company reports the operations of the Synchronics business under the Retail segment. In January 2008, Radiant acquired Quest Retail Technology (“Quest”), a global provider of point-of-sale and back office solutions to stadiums, arenas, convention centers, race courses, theme parks, restaurants, bars and clubs. The acquisition of Quest enables Radiant to strengthen its presence in the stadium, park and arena marketplace, while expanding its installed terminal base both domestically and internationally. The results of these operations are reported under the Hospitality segment. In April 2008, Radiant acquired Hospitality EPoS Systems Ltd. (“Hospitality EPoS”), a leading technology supplier to the U.K. hospitality market since 1992. Hospitality EPoS provided substantial capabilities for sales, implementation and support services and represented Radiant’s suite of hospitality products including Aloha point-of-sale software, Enterprise.com above-store reporting, gift card and loyalty programs, MenuLink back office and Radiant hardware. The results of these operations are reported under the Hospitality segment. In May 2008, Radiant acquired substantially all of the assets of Jadeon, Inc. (“Jadeon”), one of the Company’s resellers in California. Jadeon has been delivering and supporting Radiant’s hospitality point-of-sale solutions since 2001. Jadeon offers a full range of technology systems and implementation and support services throughout the West coast. The results of these operations are reported under the Hospitality segment. In July 2008, Radiant acquired Orderman GmbH (“Orderman”), one of the leading manufacturers of wireless handheld ordering and payment devices for the hospitality industry. Orderman has provided innovative mobile solutions since 1994, and distributes its solutions through a reseller network of partners that have deployed their handheld devices, predominately in Europe. The acquisition enables Radiant to accelerate the adoption of mobile devices in the global hospitality sector. The results of these operations are reported under the Hospitality segment. To the extent that Radiant believes acquisitions, joint ventures and business partnerships can better position it to serve its current segments, it will continue to pursue such opportunities in the future. 2 Table of Contents Hospitality Segment Radiant provides integrated technology solutions which meet the needs of a wide variety of hospitality businesses throughout the world. The industry segments in which these solutions are highly competitive include quick service restaurants, fast casual restaurants, table service restaurants, stadiums, arenas and certain entertainment venues. Radiant’s hospitality solutions are comprehensive, including store systems, corporate systems and supporting services. The store systems offering is comprised of innovative hardware, advanced point-of-sale software and related modules for automating store operations. These valuable modules include applications for processing payments, serving takeout and delivery customers, improving kitchen production, enhancing guest management and enabling self-service kiosks and handheld ordering and payment devices. The solution’s corporate systems include world-class data center hosting capabilities and software platforms. These provide enterprise-wide reporting and alerting, management of labor and inventory costs, loss prevention, store systems management, stored value and loyalty applications. When combined, the solution’s store systems and corporate systems provide integrated functionality which is unprecedented in the hospitality industry. The resulting capabilities allow operators of all sizes around the world to achieve superior operational performance while delivering exceptional consumer experiences. In addition to being tightly integrated, the components of Radiant’s hospitality solution are also modular and open, allowing operators to purchase components in stages, incorporating them into existing systems. This maximizes both customer choice and Radiant’s opportunities to engage new customers. The approach allows Radiant to win the business of more customers and increase its share of their technology spending over time. Supporting services for the solution include custom software development, consulting, help desk support and field services. Some combination of these valuable services are utilized by virtually every Radiant customer in the hospitality industry, assisting in the development of long-term relationships with highly satisfied customers. Radiant sells its hospitality solution directly to large multi-unit operations with sophisticated requirements for corporate support. Smaller operators are served by Radiant’s global network of resellers – valuable business partners who best understand and serve the needs of local entrepreneurs. Food service operators of all sizes throughout the world face a highly competitive and challenging environment in which consumers demand convenience and great service while having an increasing number of dining options at their disposal. To meet these challenges, they require new technology that enables them to improve their operations while reducing the total cost of ownership for their technology solution. Radiant’s hospitality technology fills precisely this need, providing the hospitality industry the most compelling and competitive solution offering to date. Our back-office solutions are widely known as some of the industry’s easiest systems for customers to use. The combination of our robust back-office applications and the Aloha suite of products, including QuickService/TableService POS™, Enterprise™, eCard™ and eFrequency™, create an end-to-end solution designed to help operators minimize operational costs and maximize profits. We have enhanced our back-office offerings in recent years through the products obtained in the acquisitions of MenuLink and Quest. Radiant believes that the international hospitality market represents a continued growth opportunity in future years. To service this market, Radiant has expanded its European presence through adding reseller partners and direct customers. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, approximately 10%, 6% and 6%, respectively, of Radiant’s Hospitality segment revenues were from international customers. In April 2008, the Company expanded its capabilities for sales, implementation and support services through the acquisition of Hospitality EPoS. Hospitality EPoS was a leading technology supplier to the U.K. hospitality market since 1992 and represented Radiant’s suite of hospitality products including Aloha point-of-sale software, Enterprise.com above-store reporting, gift card and loyalty programs and Radiant hardware. The Company acquired substantially all of the assets of Jadeon in May 2008 and expanded its direct sales reach to offer a full range of technology systems and implementation and support services throughout the West coast. Jadeon was one of Radiant’s resellers in California and has been delivering and supporting Radiant’s hospitality point-of-sale solutions since 2001. In July 2008, the Company acquired Orderman GmbH located in Salzburg, Austria. Since its founding in 1994, Orderman has provided innovative mobile solutions through its reseller network of partners that have deployed its handheld devices, predominately in Europe. Orderman is one of the leading manufacturers of wireless handheld ordering and payment devices for the hospitality industry. In addition, Orderman has built a strong network of resellers across Europe that management believes will significantly expand the Company’s ability to distribute other Radiant products and services. Radiant has a proven track record of delivering enhanced value for cinema operators, including offerings such as expanded concessions and foodservice, self-service ticketing and concessions, film management and gift card programs. With over 36,000 cinema screens at more than 6,100 sites in the United States, cinema operators are focusing on implementing cost controls from headquarters. Radiant believes that cinema operators can improve customer service and profitability by implementing integrated site and film management systems that enable them to speed customer transactions, reduce lines, manage inventory, and schedule labor to meet variations in traffic. Due to the lack of end user market growth and Radiant’s high penetration in this market, Radiant does not expect growth to occur in the cinema operator market over the near term but believes this market has synergies with the stadium, park and arena marketplace. In January 2008, the Company expanded its presence in the stadium, park and arena marketplace with the acquisition of Quest located in Adelaide, Australia. Quest’s products, including point-of sale and back office solutions, are leaders in industry segments such as stadiums, arenas, convention centers, race courses, theme parks, restaurants, bars and clubs. The Quest acquisition also provides Radiant’s Hospitality segment with a more significant international presence. Customers who have licensed or purchased Radiant’s Hospitality products and services include Burger King Corporation, Dunkin’ Brands, Inc., The Krystal Company, New World Restaurant Group, CEC Entertainment, Inc., Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc., P.F. Chang’s China Bistro, Inc., Krispy Kreme Doughnut Corp., Chick-fil-A, Inc., Texas Roadhouse, Inc., Jamba Juice Company, Cosi, Inc., Damon’s International, Inc., Church’s Chicken, Del Taco, Inc., Don Pablo’s, Sbarro, Inc., Fatburger Corporation, Landry’s Seafood Restaurants, Inc, Denny’s, Inc., Benihana, Inc., Champps Entertainment, Inc., Checker’s Drive-In Restaurant, Inc., Clubcorp Financial Management Company, California Pizza Kitchen, Inc., Noodles & Company, Diedrich Coffee, Huddle House, Inc., Johnny Rockets International, Inc., Morton’s of Chicago, Inc., Red Robin International, Inc., Ted’s Montana Grill, Inc., Joe’s Crab Shack Holdings, Inc., Hillstone Restaurant Group, Inc., Peet’s Coffee and Tea, Inc., Pita Pit, Inc., Rockbottom Restaurant, Inc, Sizzler USA Restaurants, Inc., Focus Brands, Inc., Showcase Cinemas, The Marcus Corporation, Larry H Miller Megaplex Theatres, Muvico Theaters, Reading International, Harkins Theatres and Clearview Cinemas, Live Nation, Yankee Stadium, FedEx Field (home of the Washington Redskins), Dolphins Stadium and Staples Center (home of the LA Lakers and LA Clippers). 3 Table of Contents Retail Segment The Retail segment provides store and office-oriented technologies for the automation of retail businesses spanning from small stores to global chains. Solutions provided include software, hardware and services, either as complete turn-key solutions or as point-solutions in a best-of-breed configuration. Radiant’s retail solutions encompass point-of-sale systems, integrated back-office systems, fuel controllers, self-service kiosks, site management technology, payment processing, systems management, and centralized data management. In January 2006, Radiant extended its reach into the retail industry by acquiring substantially all of the assets of Synchronics, Inc., including the CounterPoint™ product line. Reseller partners of Radiant deliver our hardware platforms in conjunction with the CounterPoint software, which has been adapted to over 20 different retail concepts ranging from home and garden warehouses to shoe stores. In addition to a full solution for the traditional management of retail sites, CounterPoint also includes a substantial recurring revenue business based on service fees for credit card processing as well as internet retailing. CounterPoint Gateway provides retailers with advanced high-speed credit processing while CPOnline™ enables a retailer to quickly augment brick-and-mortar sales with online operations. Radiant’s technology for petroleum and convenience retailers is built to enable fuel operations, merchandise sales, foodservice, electronic payments and customer loyalty programs. Radiant’s solutions are designed to enhance speed of service in an easy-to-use, reliable format. Specialized software and hardware offerings such as payment terminals and fuel controllers differentiate the Radiant product line in the petroleum retail market. Self-service is an area of great interest for our customers, ranging from touch-screen food ordering stations in the US, to highly secured credit card payment terminals for self-service fueling worldwide. Radiant’s fourth generation fuel control technology is helping retailers extend the viable life of their fuel dispensing equipment while delivering high performance for their customers. Radiant’s software uses industry standards to interface with leading third party back-office and headquarters solutions. In response to gross margin pressure on traditional categories, including fuel and tobacco, and enhanced competition for the convenience dollar from non-traditional sources, convenience retailers are changing business models and pursuing new revenue channels, including made-to-order food, specialty coffee programs and expanded services offerings. These changes have resulted in new growth opportunities for Radiant as implementation of these programs requires additional automation for effective management. High-volume retailers such as grocery stores, mass-merchants, warehouse clubs and others are also adding fuel and made-to-order food to their offerings and represent additional growth opportunities for Radiant. As a result of the changes in the retail market, Radiant believes that there will continue to be demand for the foreseeable future for Radiant’s technology solutions. Management also believes that, based on the success of technology in recent years and the positive return on investment seen by Radiant’s customers, demand for new technology will continue from both new and existing customers. Radiant believes that the international retail market represents an additional growth opportunity. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, approximately 25%, 25% and 33%, respectively, of Radiant’s Retail segment revenues were from international customers. Radiant’s Retail segment has over 1,500 customers worldwide. Customers who have licensed or purchased Radiant’s Retail products and services include Holiday Stationstores, Kroger Corporation, Exxon Mobil Corporation, Royal Dutch Shell, Repsol YPF, S.A., Sheetz, Inc., Speedway SuperAmerica, LLC, 7-Eleven Australia, Pty Ltd., Alimentation Couche-Tard, Hess, Shell Canada, Maverik Country Stores, Rutter’s Farm Stores, Wawa, Inc., Archiver’s Inc., Batteries Plus LLC, The Field Museum, Elvis Presley Enterprises, Inc., Harbor Freight Tools Retail Concepts, Inc., Mahoney’s Garden Center LLC, Relax the Back Corporation, High’s of Baltimore, Family Express and The Athlete’s Foot. 4 Table of Contents Products and Services Radiant serves the global retail and hospitality industries with technology solutions that address their greatest automation needs. Managing businesses that range from a single store or restaurant, all the way to expansive global chains and the world’s largest sports stadiums, Radiant provides software, hardware and services through a variety of channels and products. The strategy is to provide targeted solutions for each market, with the common goal of assisting our customers’ efforts to increase revenue through more frequent consumer visits, greater revenues per visit, higher margins on each sale, faster transactions and more efficient site operations. Point-of-Sale Radiant’s point-of-sale systems increase speed and quality of service, minimize user training, and provide mission-critical reliability while delivering secure and personalized service to the consumer. The point-of-sale systems can be integrated with Radiant’s back-office products or third party solutions. Radiant’s point-of-sale software runs on multiple open hardware platforms including IBM, NCR, PAR, WincorNixdorf, and Radiant hardware. Additionally, Radiant’s point-of-sale hardware supports Radiant’s point-of-sale software and third-party point-of-sale software products that adhere to open standards. Radiant’s point-of-sale terminals offer an open architecture, retail-hardened design, comprehensive support and return-to-service programs, and run on Windows CE, Windows XP, Windows XP Embedded, and Windows POS Ready. Quest Back Office is based on Microsoft SQL and operates on Windows Server products. However, the Quest POS terminals do not rely on commercial operating systems. This secure environment creates a simple, effective POS platform while reducing management and maintenance costs. In the retail market, the Radiant’s point-of-sale solution has been adapted by resale partners for use in a wide variety of business formats, enabling a tighter fit to each retailer’s specific needs while expanding the possible market of buyers for our solution. In addition, this segment delivers value to retailers through an online store offering as well as a card payment processing service. Specifically for Petroleum retail, Radiant’s point-of-sale products are adapted to the needs of global multi-nationals, enabling them to deploy best practices in their worldwide operations. The hospitality market point-of-sale solutions for Table Service Restaurants, Quick Service Restaurants, Stadiums, Arenas, and Cinema/Entertainment venues each offer distinct value to our customers and resale partners. Speed and accuracy of orders are paramount in restaurant formats, as are labor and food production integration. Consumer preferences are driving automation for a broad range of service models, from drive-thru to curb-side pickup, counter service, and more. Consumer loyalty and gift cards are just two of the significant enhancements offered to our customers in recent years. In addition to foodservice requirements, the Cinema segment has specialized needs related to theater systems, from management of internet ticket sales to reserved seating. Customer Self-Service Within many markets of the hospitality and retail industries, customer self-service has emerged as a preferred ordering and transaction method. Traditional capabilities such as online shopping and pay-at-pump are distinct value propositions delivered by Radiant’s products. Radiant has easy to use, consumer-activated touch screen systems that allow consumers to purchase tickets, place a food order, pay with a credit or debit card, redeem loyalty rewards, make product inquiries, and view promotions. Software development and consumer experience authoring tools integrate graphic media into a consumer-friendly application. Management believes consumer self-service kiosks allow hospitality and retail operators to accelerate speed of service, increase revenues through suggestive up-selling, increase order accuracy, capture consumer information at the point-of-sale, increase labor productivity, and respond quickly to changing consumer preferences. Radiant’s customer self-service products help operators create a uniform and repeatable approach to customer service while improving revenue. Site-Management Systems Operators in both of Radiant’s segments have varying requirements for site-management systems, from the most basic site-based technology to the most advanced centralized back-office system. Radiant’s products are differentiated based on the needs of the different operating models of our customers and integrated into other components of the enterprise operation. MenuLink and Quest Enterprise Manager back office solutions help operators run a more profitable hospitality business through the delivery of tools and critical information needed to help reduce food and labor costs, and improve customer service and management efficiency. Radiant’s enterprise site-management products offer comprehensive back office functionality that includes inventory and recipe management, purchasing, labor management, cash management and reporting. In the retail segment, products such as Radiant Site Manager and CounterPoint SQL focus on specific retailer needs such as multi-site inventory management or fuel reconciliation, while leveraging open standards for integration to other components of the retailer enterprise. Software Services The delivery of software as a subscribed service with a recurring fee has become a significant enhancement to Radiant’s value proposition and business flexibility in support of our customers. One instance is Radiant’s Aloha eServices product suite, which is built to give restaurant operators tools to capitalize on revenue opportunities and prevent unnecessary costs or losses. This service combines intelligent features such as business alerts, a complete suite of enterprise-level reporting with drill-down analysis, as well as accounting and payroll interfaces. Enterprise comes complete with a robust centralized database management (CDM) toolset designed to facilitate data management, such as price and item changes, directly from the corporate office. Radiant also offers its software through an application service provider (“ASP”) model. The ASP model allows customers to use Radiant software without requiring them to use their own hardware system capacity or maintain the software application on their own servers. This offering is available on a monthly fee basis. In the Retail segment, the CPOnline product enables a retailer to move from bricks-and-mortar to being a full-featured online retailer through a simple managed service from Radiant. Electronic payment services are also successful service-based software delivery offerings. The Retail segment of Radiant markets a high-speed credit card processing service, while the Hospitality segment has a large base of customers for its proprietary gift card branding program, eCard™. The consumer loyalty solution eFrequency™ is also offered to customers in all Hospitality segments on a recurring fee basis. The Company expanded its business services in 2008 with the launch of Radiant Payment Services (“RPS”), a business aimed at selling and servicing electronic payment processing. RPS enhances Radiant’s current solutions by providing an integrated, turnkey payment processing solution for a wide variety of payment methods including credit, debit and gift card payments. The objective of RPS is to raise the level of customer service that is provided to business owners and operators by providing competitive and transparent pricing, increased accountability from a single vendor and the highest level of security for customer data and credit card transactions. 5 Table of Contents Professional Services Professional services are an essential component of the Radiant solution; our service offerings include consulting, customization, training, installations and integration. Our professional services play a critical role in the successful design, implementation, application, installation and integration of Radiant’s solutions. The market for Radiant’s professional services is intensely competitive. We believe that we excel in the principal competitive factors including product quality, reliability, performance, price, vendor and product reputation, financial stability, features and functions, ease of use, quality of support, and degree of integration effort as compared with competitor systems. Maintenance and Customer Support Radiant offers customer support on a 24-hour basis, a service that historically has been purchased by a majority of its customers and which also entitles the customer to product upgrades. Radiant can remotely access customers’ systems in order to perform quick diagnostics and provide on-line assistance. Additionally, Radiant offers customers hardware and software maintenance and unspecified software enhancements. In some cases, hardware support is provided by third parties. Radiant focuses on providing quality service and ensuring a first-time fix for any technical issue with our hardware. Our hardware maintenance program also provides flexible solutions and can be customized to meet specific customer needs. Radiant’s software maintenance program offers modifications and enhancements to our software products, including updates and corrections. We have historically had a high rate of renewal on these maintenance and support contracts. Sales and Marketing Through a focused and dedicated sales effort designed to address the requirements of both business segments, Radiant believes its sales force is positioned to understand its customers’ businesses, trends in the marketplace, competitive products and opportunities for new product development. This allows Radiant to take a consultative approach to working with customers. Radiant’s sales personnel focus on selling its technology solutions to major customers, typically those with more than 50 locations or sites with more than 50 POS terminals, both domestically and internationally. All sales personnel are compensated with a base salary and commission based on revenue quotas, gross margins and/or other profitability measures. Over the last several years, Radiant has seen an increase in the portion of revenues comprised of small businesses within both segments. This increase is due to Radiant’s increased investments in developing relationships with third-party resellers to distribute its products to small to medium-sized operators. Radiant accelerated the development of these relationships through acquisitions in both segments. While serving and meeting the expectations of large operators remains a top priority, Radiant intends to serve the needs of all operators within its segments. To better serve the small to medium-sized customer, we will continue to develop the reseller channel and package solutions in a manner that is easy for operators to afford, implement and support. Radiant’s strategy is to deliver rich products that are easy to implement and support, establish a strong presence within critical franchised brands, and support resellers with strong operational tools. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Company’s international revenues accounted for approximately 14%, 13% and 17%, respectively, of total revenues. Management believes that this percentage can be increased substantially in the coming years. The growing number of large, multi-national companies which are among Radiant’s major North American customers, together with its successful record of implementing solutions with retailers in Western Europe, Eastern Europe and Asia, positions Radiant to make additional progress internationally in the future. Additionally, the majority of Radiant’s current business outside the United States has been in the retail market. Management believes there is opportunity for significant growth in the hospitality and retail markets outside the United States. Currently, Radiant has 238 employees in Europe, Asia and Australia. Radiant has previously executed international projects in Australia, Canada, Spain, Italy, Austria, the Czech Republic, Hong Kong, Hungary, Ireland, Japan, Macau, Malaysia, Poland, Slovakia, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago and the United Kingdom. Radiant currently has offices in Adelaide, Geelong, Prague, Salzburg, Shanghai, Singapore, Spain and the United Kingdom and representation in Central America and South America. To date, Radiant’s primary marketing objectives have been to increase awareness of Radiant’s technology solutions and generate sales leads. To this end, Radiant attends industry trade shows, conducts direct marketing programs, and selectively advertises in industry publications. Radiant intends to increase its sales and marketing activities both domestically and internationally. Additionally, Radiant intends to continue expanding an independent distribution network to sell and service its products to certain segments of the domestic and international markets. Radiant’s business is usually seasonal and cyclical in nature, based on the capital equipment investment patterns of its customers. These expenditure patterns are based on many factors, including customer capital expenditure budget constraints, the development of new technologies, global and regional economic conditions, changes in the pricing and promotion policies of the Company and its competitors, and domestic and international holidays. During 2008, 2007 and 2006, no one customer made up 10% or more of the Company’s revenues. The Company is party to certain contracts with the U.S. Government, which contained standard termination for convenience clauses. The Company does not anticipate any material adverse financial impact if the U.S. Government elects to exercise its rights under these termination clauses. 6 Table of Contents Product Development The products sold by Radiant are subject to rapid and continual technological change. Products available from Radiant, as well as from its competitors, have increasingly offered a wider range of features and capabilities. Radiant believes that in order to compete effectively in its selected markets, it must provide compatible systems incorporating new technologies at competitive prices. In order to achieve this, we have made a substantial ongoing commitment to research and development. During 2008, 2007 and 2006, Radiant incurred approximately $28.9 million, $26.2 million and $25.0 million, respectively, in product development costs, which includes software costs that were capitalizable in nature. Radiant’s product development strategy is focused on creating common technology elements that can be leveraged in applications across its core markets. Radiant’s software architecture is based on open platforms and is modular, thereby allowing it to be phased into a customer’s operations. Radiant has developed numerous applications running on Microsoft Windows-based platforms, including Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows XP Embedded, and Windows CE. The software architecture incorporates Microsoft’s Component Object Model, providing an efficient environment for application development. In order to remain competitive, Radiant is currently designing, coding and testing a number of new products and developing expanded functionality of its current products. In addition, Radiant strives to achieve compatibility between its products and products that are, or that Radiant believes will become, popular and widely adopted. Manufacturing, Raw Materials and Supplies Radiant’s manufacturing activities consist primarily of assembling various commercial and proprietary components into finished systems in Georgia, Austria and Australia. Manufacturing requires some raw materials, including a wide variety of mechanical and electrical components, to be manufactured to Radiant’s specifications. Radiant uses numerous companies to supply parts, components and subassemblies for the manufacture and support of its products. Although Radiant makes reasonable efforts to assure that parts are available from multiple qualified suppliers, this is not always possible. Accordingly, some key parts may be obtained only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Radiant has sought, and will continue to seek, to minimize the risk of production and service interruptions and/or shortages of key parts by: (1) qualifying and selecting alternate suppliers for key parts; (2) monitoring the financial condition of key suppliers; (3) maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts; and (4) qualifying new parts on a timely basis. Market Background and Trends Successful hospitality and retail operators increasingly require information systems that capture detailed consumer activity data at the point-of-sale, and store and transport that data in an easy-to-access fashion. Early technology innovators in the hospitality and retail industries deployed robust, integrated information systems at the point-of-sale and used the information to react quickly to changing consumer preferences, ultimately gaining market share in the process. In addition, integrated information systems helped these early innovators achieve operational efficiencies. Many large national hospitality and retail companies have followed suit by investing in proprietary information systems. For many types of hospitality and retail operators, however, this type of information system does not make economic or business sense. In particular, merchants with a large number of relatively small sites, such as convenience stores, petroleum retail sites, restaurants and entertainment venues, generally have not been able to develop and deploy sophisticated, enterprise-wide information systems on a cost effective basis. Economic and standardization problems for these businesses are exacerbated by the fact that many sites operate as franchises, dealerships or under other decentralized ownership and control structures. Without an investment in technology, these operators continue to depend on labor and paper to process transactions. Radiant’s management believes that high labor costs, lack of centralized management control of distributed sites, and inadequate informational reporting, together with emerging technology trends, have caused many of these hospitality and retail businesses to reexamine how technology solutions can benefit their operations. Typically, the existing information systems in these industries consist of stand-alone devices such as cash registers or other point-of-sale systems with little or no integration with either the back-office of the site or an enterprise-wide information system. Implementation of information systems providing this functionality typically involves multiple vendors and an independent systems integration firm. The resulting proprietary solutions are often difficult to support and have inherently high risks associated with implementation. Management believes that technology solutions that are highly functional and scalable, relatively inexpensive and easy to deploy are critical for successful penetration in these markets. In the absence of an integrated solution, operators in these markets typically rely on manual reporting to capture data on site activity and disseminate it to different levels of management. Basic information on consumers (i.e., who they are, when they visit and what they buy) is not captured in sufficient detail, at the right time, or in a manner that can be communicated easily to others in the organization. Similarly, information such as price changes does not flow from headquarters to individual sites in a timely manner. In addition, communications with vendors often remain manual, involving paperwork, delays and other process-related problems. 7 Table of Contents Recent trends in the hospitality and retail industries have accelerated the need for timely information and have heightened demand for feature-rich operational systems. Based in part upon industry association reports and other studies, as well as Radiant’s experience in marketing its products, we believe consumer preferences have shifted away from brand loyalty toward value and convenience, creating a greater need for timely data concerning consumer buying patterns and preferences. We also believe that convenient consumer-activated ordering and payment systems, such as automated kiosks, ATMs, voice response units and “pay at the pump” systems have become important to retailers, food service providers, and cinema operators that wish to retain and build a customer base. Additionally, through the use of integrated systems, hospitality and retail businesses can improve operational efficiencies through better management of inventory, purchasing, merchandising, pricing, promotions and shrinkage control. Management believes that the ability to provide tight system integration to a variety of industry standard back-office solutions can enable customers to improve control and enforce best practices across operational sites. Furthermore, management believes that the constant flow of information among the point-of-sale, back-office, headquarters and the supply chain has become a key competitive advantage in the hospitality and retail industries, resulting in operators demanding more sophisticated and easily integrated solutions from their systems vendors. In a parallel development, technological advances have improved the capability of information systems that are available. With the price of computing power declining, technology investments have become economically feasible for many hospitality and retail businesses. Furthermore, computing power has become increasingly flexible and distributable, facilitating data capture and processing by applications located at the point-of-sale. Also, front-end graphical user interfaces have made systems easier to use, which reduces training time and transaction costs and facilitates more types of consumer-activated applications. Competition The markets in which Radiant operates are intensely competitive. Radiant believes the principal competitive factors include product quality, reliability, performance, price, vendor and product reputation, financial stability, features and functions, ease of use, quality of support and degree of integration effort required with competitor systems. Radiant believes it is uniquely positioned with its exclusive focus on providing site management systems for hospitality and retail businesses. Radiant’s ability to commercialize its technology and continually improve its products, processes and services, as well as its ability to develop new products, enables it to meet continually evolving customer requirements. Radiant’s competitors include International Business Machines, Corp., NCR Corporation, Casio, Dell, VeriFone, Inc., Dresser, Inc., Retalix, Ltd., Pacer/CATS (owned by Clarity Commerce Solutions plc), Micros Systems, Inc., Par Technology Corporation, POSitouch, Panasonic, The Pinnacle Corporation, Agilysys, RetailPro, JDA Software, Epicore and others that provide point-of-sale and site management systems with varying degrees of functionality. The Company could also be faced with new market entrants attempting to develop fully integrated systems targeting the retail industry. Radiant believes the risk of this happening is small due to the significant amount of time and effort required to create point-of-sale and back-office headquarters-based management systems, and due to the detailed knowledge required of a retailer’s operations at local sites and headquarters in order to duplicate the functionality of these products. In the market for consulting services, the Company competes with various companies. Many of Radiant’s existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than the Company. 8 Table of Contents Proprietary Rights Radiant’s success and ability to compete is dependent in part upon its proprietary technology, including its software source code. To protect its proprietary technology, Radiant relies on a combination of trade secret, nondisclosure, copyright and patent law, which may afford only limited protection. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. Although Radiant relies on the limited protection afforded by such intellectual property laws, it also believes that factors such as the technological and creative skills of its personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, name recognition and reliable maintenance are essential to establishing and maintaining a technology leadership position. Radiant presently has five patents and six patents pending. The source code for Radiant’s various proprietary software products is protected both as a trade secret and as a copyrighted work. Radiant generally enters into confidentiality or license agreements with its employees, consultants and customers, and generally controls access to and distribution of its software, documentation and other proprietary information. Although the Company restricts customers’ use of its software and does not permit the unauthorized resale, sublicense or other transfer of such software, there can be no assurance that unauthorized use of the Company’s technology will not occur. Despite the measures taken by the Company to protect its proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to reverse engineer or copy aspects of its products or to obtain and use information that the Company regards as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, such as our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of our or others’ proprietary rights, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Certain technology used in conjunction with Radiant’s products is licensed from third parties, generally on a non-exclusive basis. These licenses usually require Radiant to pay royalties and fulfill confidentiality obligations. Radiant believes that there are alternative sources for each of the material components of technology licensed by Radiant from third parties. However, the termination of any of these licenses, or the failure of the third-party licensors to adequately maintain or update their products, could result in a delay in Radiant’s ability to ship certain of its products while it seeks to implement technology offered by alternative sources. Any required alternative licenses could prove costly. Also, any such delay, to the extent it becomes extended or occurs at or near the end of a fiscal quarter, could result in a material adverse effect on Radiant’s business, operating results and financial condition. While it may be necessary or desirable in the future to obtain other licenses relating to one or more of our products or relating to current or future technologies, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all. There can be no assurance that Radiant will not become the subject of infringement claims or legal proceedings by third parties with respect to current or future products. Defending against any such claim could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or force Radiant to enter into royalty or license agreements rather than dispute the merits of such claims. Moreover, an adverse outcome in litigation or similar adversarial proceeding could subject Radiant to significant liabilities to third parties, require the expenditure of significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, require disputed rights to be licensed from others or require Radiant to cease the marketing or use of certain products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Radiant’s business, operating results and financial condition. To the extent Radiant desires or is required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others, there can be no assurance that any such licenses will be made available on terms acceptable to Radiant, if at all. As the number of software products in the industry increases and the functionality of these products further overlaps, Radiant believes that software developers may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. Any such claims against Radiant, with or without merit, as well as claims initiated by Radiant against third parties, could be time consuming and expensive to defend, prosecute or resolve. Employees As of December 31, 2008, the Company employed 1,354 people. None of Radiant’s employees is represented by a collective bargaining agreement nor has the Company experienced any work stoppages. Radiant considers its relations with its employees to be good. Radiant’s future operating results depend in significant part upon the continued service of its key technical, consulting and senior management personnel and its continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that Radiant will retain its key managerial or technical personnel or attract such personnel in the future. Radiant has at times experienced and continues to experience difficulty recruiting qualified personnel, and there can be no assurance that Radiant will not experience such difficulties in the future. Radiant, either directly or through personnel search firms, actively recruits qualified product development, consulting, sales and marketing, and administrative personnel. If Radiant is unable to hire and retain qualified personnel in the future, such inability could have a material adverse effect on Radiant’s business, operating results and financial condition. Foreign Operations For information regarding sales and long-lived assets attributable to domestic and foreign operations, please refer to the information presented in Note 14 - Segment Reporting Data in the notes to our consolidated financial statements, presented in Part II, Item 8 of this report. Environmental Matters The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with all applicable environmental laws and does not anticipate that such compliance will have a material effect on its future capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position with respect to any of its operations. Available Information Radiant maintains a website at www.radiantsystems.com. Radiant makes available free of charge its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K on its website as soon as practicable after such reports are filed with the SEC. These filings can be accessed through the ‘Investor Relations’ page on Radiant’s website at www.radiantsystems.com. Radiant’s common stock is traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol “RADS.” 9 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this report, the following risks should be considered carefully in evaluating Radiant and its business. Risks Related to our Business Recent global economic and market conditions could cause decreases in demand for our products and related services. Our revenue and profitability depend on the overall demand for our products and related services. We are impacted both directly and indirectly by declining global economic conditions. The retail and hospitality industries are cautious of investments in information technology during difficult economic times, which often results in reduced budgets and spending. This impacts us through reduced revenues, elongated selling cycles, delays in product implementation and increased competitive margin pressure. The recent severe downturn in global economic and market conditions could result in decreases in demand for our products and related services as the current tightening of credit in financial markets may adversely affect the ability of our customers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations. We are unable to predict with certainty the future impact which the most recent global economic conditions will have on the demand for our products and related services. The recent volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, and adverse changes in the global economy, could have a negative impact on our ability to access the credit markets in the future and/or obtain credit on favorable terms. Recently, the capital and credit markets have become increasingly tight as a result of adverse economic conditions that have caused the failure and near failure of a number of large financial services companies. While currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in the financial markets. If the capital and credit markets continue to experience crises and the availability of funds remains low, it is possible that our ability to access the capital and credit markets may be limited or available on less favorable terms at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an impact on our ability to refinance maturing debt, pursue acquisitions and/or react to changing economic and business conditions. In addition, if current global economic conditions persist for an extended period of time or worsen substantially, our business may suffer in a manner which could cause us to fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely impact our cash flows and earnings. Due to our global operations, our cash flow and earnings are exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Exchange rate fluctuations may also affect the cost of goods and services that we purchase. The recent volatility in the global capital and credit markets has increased the frequency and severity of exchange rate fluctuations. Changes from our expectations for currency exchange rates can have a material impact on our financial results. When appropriate, we may attempt to limit our exposure to exchange rate changes by entering into short-term currency exchange contracts. There is no assurance that we will hedge or will be able to hedge such foreign currency exchange risk or that our hedges will be successful. Our currency exchange gains or losses (net of hedges) may materially and adversely impact our cash flows and earnings. Additionally, adverse movements in currency exchange rates could result in increases in our cost of goods sold or reduction in growth in international orders, materially impacting our cash flows and earnings. An increase in customer bankruptcies, due to weak economic conditions, could harm our business. During weak economic times, there is an increased risk that certain of our customers will file bankruptcy. If a customer files bankruptcy, we may be required to forego collection of pre-petition amounts owed and to repay amounts remitted to us during the 90-day preference period preceding the filing. Accounts receivable balances related to pre-petition amounts may, in certain of these instances, be large due to extended payment terms for software license fees, and significant billings for consulting and implementation services on large projects. The bankruptcy laws, as well as specific circumstances of each bankruptcy, may limit our ability to collect pre-petition amounts. We also face risk from international customers that file for bankruptcy protection in foreign jurisdictions, in that the application of foreign bankruptcy laws may be more difficult to predict. Although we believe that we have sufficient reserves to cover anticipated customer bankruptcies, we can provide no assurance that such reserves will be adequate, and if they are not adequate, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our revenues are significantly concentrated in the hospitality and retail markets and the demand for our products and services in these markets could be disproportionately affected by instability or a downturn in either market. Approximately 75%, 68% and 64% of the our total revenues for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, were attributable to the hospitality market and approximately 24%, 31% and 35% of our total revenues for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, were attributable to the retail market. The hospitality and retail markets are affected by a variety of factors, including global and regional instability, governmental policy and regulation, political instability, natural disasters, environmental and health disasters, consumer buying habits, consolidation in the petroleum industry, war, terrorism and general economic conditions. Adverse developments in either market could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we believe the purchase of our products is relatively discretionary and generally involves a significant commitment of capital, because purchases of our products are often accompanied by large scale hardware purchases. As a result, demand for our products and services could be disproportionately affected by instability or downturns in the hospitality and retail markets which may cause customers to exit the industry or delay, cancel or reduce planned-for information management systems and software products. 10 Table of Contents We may be required to defer recognition of revenues on our software products, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We may be required to defer recognition of revenues for a significant period of time after entering into a license agreement for a variety of factors, including the following: • transactions that include both currently deliverable software products and arrangements that include specified upgrades for which we have not established vendor-specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) of fair value; • transactions where the customer demands services that include significant modifications, customizations or complex interfaces that could delay product delivery or acceptance; and • transactions that involve acceptance criteria that may preclude revenue recognition or if there are identified product-related issues, such as performance issues. Because of the factors listed above and other specific requirements under generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) for software revenue recognition, we must have very precise terms in our license agreements in order to recognize revenue when we initially deliver software or perform services. Although we have a standard form of license agreement that meets the criteria under GAAP for current revenue recognition on delivered elements, we negotiate and revise these terms and conditions in some transactions. Negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions can extend the sales cycle, and sometimes result in deferred revenue recognition well after the time of delivery or project completion. Our revenues and results of operations are difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter, which could adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock. Our revenues and results of operations are difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter. These fluctuations can adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock. License revenues in any quarter depend substantially upon our total contracting activity and our ability to recognize revenues in that quarter in accordance with our revenue recognition policies. Our contracting activity is difficult to forecast for a variety of reasons, including the following: • our sales cycle is relatively long and varies as a result of us expanding our product line and broadening our software product applications to cover a customer’s overall business; • the size of license transactions can vary significantly; • economic downturns are often characterized by decreased product demand, price erosion, technological shifts, work slowdowns and layoffs, which can substantially reduce contracting activity; • customers may unexpectedly postpone or cancel anticipated system replacements or new system evaluations due to changes in their strategic priorities, project objectives, budgetary constraints or management; • customer evaluations and purchasing processes vary significantly from company to company, and a customer’s internal approval and expenditure authorization process can be difficult and time consuming, even after selection of a vendor; • changes in our pricing policies and discount plans may affect customer purchasing patterns; • the number, timing and significance of our and our competitors’ software product enhancements and new software product announcements may affect purchasing decisions; • the introduction of new research and development projects requires us to significantly increase our operating expenses to fund greater levels of product development and to develop and commercialize additional products and services; • certain expenses, including those over which we exercise little or no control, such as health costs, compliance with new legislation, and property and liability insurance, may be difficult to manage; and • fluctuations in the value of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar or weakening of the U.S. dollar may adversely impact our ability to purchase materials at a competitive price. In addition, our expense levels, operating costs and hiring plans are based on projections of future revenues and are relatively fixed. If our actual revenues fall below expectations, our net income is likely to be disproportionately adversely affected. Due to all of the foregoing factors, in some future quarters our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In such event, the market price of our common stock would likely decrease. 11 Table of Contents Our gross margins may vary significantly or decline. Since the gross margins on product revenues are significantly greater than the gross margins on services revenues, our combined gross margin has fluctuated from quarter to quarter and it may continue to fluctuate significantly based on revenue mix. Our success will depend on our ability to develop new products and to adapt to rapid technological change. The types of products sold by us are subject to rapid and continual technological change. Products available from us, as well as from our competitors, have increasingly offered a wider range of features and capabilities. We believe that in order to compete effectively in selected vertical markets, we must provide compatible systems incorporating new technologies at competitive prices. To the extent we determine that new software and hardware technologies are required to remain competitive or our customers demand more advanced offerings, the development, acquisition and implementation of these technologies are likely to require significant capital investments by us. To the extent that such expenses precede or are not subsequently followed by increased revenues, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to continue funding research and development at levels sufficient to enhance our current product offerings or be able to develop and introduce on a timely basis new products that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards and address the evolving needs of customers. There can also be no assurance that we will not experience difficulties that will result in delaying or preventing the successful development, introduction and marketing of new products in our existing markets or that our new products and product enhancements will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve any significant degree of market acceptance. Likewise, there can be no assurance as to the acceptance of our products in new markets, nor can there be any assurance as to the success of our penetration of these markets, or to the revenue levels or profit margins with respect to these products. Our inability, for any reason, to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, we strive to achieve compatibility between our products and retail systems that we believe are or will become popular and widely adopted. We invest substantial resources in development efforts aimed at achieving such compatibility. Any failure by us to anticipate or respond adequately to technology or market developments could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may have difficulty implementing our products, which could damage our reputation and our ability to generate new business. Implementation of our software products can be a lengthy process, and commitment of resources by our customers is subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control. Delays in the implementations of any of our software products, whether by our business partners or us, may result in customer dissatisfaction, disputes with customers, or damage to our reputation. Significant problems implementing our software can cause delays or prevent us from collecting fees for our software and can damage our ability to generate new business. Errors or defects in our software products could diminish demand for our products, injure our reputation and reduce our operating results. Our software products are complex and may contain errors that could be detected at any point in the life of the product. We can provide no assurances that errors will not be found in new products or releases after shipment. Such errors could result in diminished demand for our products, delays in market acceptance and sales, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation or increased service and warranty costs. If any of these were to occur, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. The growth in the size and complexity of our business and the expansion of our product lines and customer base may place a significant strain on our management and operations. An increase in the demand for our products could strain our resources or result in delivery problems, delayed software releases, slow response time, or insufficient resources for assisting customer with implementation of our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We anticipate that continued growth, if any, will require us to recruit, hire and assimilate a substantial number of new employees, including consulting, product development, sales and marketing, and administrative personnel. Our ability to compete effectively and to manage future growth, if any, will also depend on our ability to continue to implement and improve operational, financial and management information systems on a timely basis and to expand, train, motivate and manage our work force, particularly our direct sales force and consulting services organization. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to manage any future growth, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. 12 Table of Contents Our acquisition of existing businesses and our failure to successfully integrate these businesses could disrupt our business, dilute our common stock and harm our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. As part of our operating history and growth strategy, we have acquired other businesses. In the future, we may continue to seek acquisition candidates in selected markets and from time to time engage in exploratory discussions with suitable candidates. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to identify and acquire targeted businesses or obtain financing for such acquisitions on satisfactory terms. The process of integrating acquired businesses into our operations may result in unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of resources and management attention. In particular, the integration of acquired technologies with our existing products could cause delays in the introduction of new products. In connection with future acquisitions, we may incur significant charges to earnings as a result of, among other things, the write-off of purchased research and development. Future acquisitions may be financed through the issuance of common stock, which may dilute the ownership of our shareholders, or through the incurrence of additional indebtedness. Furthermore, we can provide no assurance that competition for acquisition candidates will not escalate, thereby increasing the costs of making acquisitions or making suitable acquisitions unattainable. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: • problems combining the acquired operations, technologies or products; • unanticipated costs or liabilities; • diversion of management’s attention; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organizations. For example, until we actually assume operating control of the business assets and operations, it is difficult to ascertain with precision the actual value or the potential liabilities of our acquisitions. We may not be able to integrate successfully any business, technologies or personnel that we have acquired or that we might acquire in the future, and this could harm our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Damage to our manufacturing site could limit our ability to operate our business. We do not have redundant, multiple-site manufacturing capacity. Therefore, damage to our manufacturing site from a natural disaster or other catastrophic event such as fire, flood, terrorist attack, power loss and other similar events could cause interruptions or delays in our manufacturing process or render us unable to accept and fulfill customer orders. We have not established a formal disaster recovery plan and our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for any losses we may suffer. The loss of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. Our future success depends in part on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Our inability to attract, hire or retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate skilled technical and managerial personnel, especially highly skilled engineers involved in ongoing product development and consulting personnel who assist in the development and implementation of our total business solutions. The market for such individuals is intensely competitive. Due to the critical role of our product development and consulting staffs, the inability to recruit successfully or the loss of a significant part of our product development or consulting staffs could have a material adverse effect on us. The software industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to retain our current personnel, or that we will be able to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future. The inability to attract, hire or retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. 13 Table of Contents Our success and ability to compete are dependent upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology. Our success and ability to compete are dependent in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trade secret laws and non-disclosure agreements to protect this proprietary technology. We enter into confidentiality and non-compete agreements with our employees and license agreements with our customers and potential customers, which limit access to and distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary information. We can provide no assurance that the steps taken by us to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, such as our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of our or others’ proprietary rights, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Certain technology used in conjunction with our products is licensed from third parties, generally on a non-exclusive basis. The termination of any of these licenses, or the failure of the third-party licensors to maintain or update their products adequately, could result in delay in our ability to ship certain of our products while we seek to implement technology offered by alternative sources, and any required replacement licenses could prove costly. While it may be necessary or desirable in the future to obtain other licenses relating to one or more of our products or relating to current or future technologies, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we become subject to adverse claims alleging infringement of third-party proprietary rights, we may incur substantial unanticipated costs and our competitive position may suffer. There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the software industries regarding intellectual property rights. It is possible that in the future third parties may claim that our current or potential future software solutions infringe on their intellectual property. We anticipate that software product developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grow. Although we are not aware of any infringement by our technology on the proprietary rights of others and are not currently subject to any legal proceedings involving claimed infringements, we can provide no assurance that we will not be subject to such third-party claims, litigation or indemnity demands or that these claims will not be successful. If a claim or indemnity demand were to be brought against us, it could result in costly litigation or product shipment delays, or force us to stop selling or providing services or enter into costly royalty or license agreements. We operate in a highly competitive market and can give no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. The market for retail information systems is intensely competitive. We believe the principal competitive factors are product quality, reliability, performance and price, vendor and product reputation, financial stability, features and functions, ease of use, quality of support, and degree of integration effort required with other systems. A number of companies offer competitive products addressing certain of our target markets. In addition, we believe that new market entrants may attempt to develop fully integrated systems targeting the retail industry. In the market for consulting services, we compete with various systems integrators. Many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, we compete with a variety of hardware and software vendors. Some of our competitors may have advantages over us due to their significant worldwide presence, longer operating and product development history, and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources. If competitors offer more favorable payment terms and/or more favorable contractual implementation terms or guarantees, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such changes would likely reduce our margins. Our increased investment in the international market could expose us to risks in addition to those experienced in the United States. Our international revenues represented approximately $42.5 million, $33.5 million and $38.4 million, or 14%, 13% and 17%, respectively, of our total revenues for our 2008, 2007 and 2006 fiscal years, respectively, and we will continue to invest in expanding our international operations. The global reach of our business could cause us to be subject to unexpected, uncontrollable and rapidly changing events and circumstances in addition to those experienced in domestic locations. The following factors, among others, present risks that could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition: • weaker protection of intellectual property rights; • an inability to replicate previous international revenues; • currency controls and fluctuations in currency exchange rates and the potential inability to hedge the currency risk in some transactions because of uncertainty or the inability to reasonably estimate our foreign exchange exposure; • possible increased costs and development time to adapt our products to local markets; • potential lack of experience in a particular geographic market; • legal, regulatory, social, political, labor or economic conditions in a specific country or region, including loss or modification of exemptions for taxes and tariffs, and import and export license requirements which may have a negative impact on us; • higher operating costs in many foreign countries; • Anti-American sentiment due to the war in Iraq and other American policies that may be unpopular in certain regions; and • Challenges of finding qualified personnel for our international operations. 14 Table of Contents Our products and services could be vulnerable to unauthorized access and hacking. Credit card issuers have promulgated credit card security guidelines as part of their ongoing effort to battle identity theft and credit card fraud. We continue to work with credit card issuers to assure that our products and services comply with the credit card associations’ security regulations and best practices applicable to our products and services. There can be no assurances, however, that our products and services are invulnerable to unauthorized access or hacking. Additionally, there can be no guarantee that our customers will implement all of the credit card security features that we introduce or all of the protections and procedures required by the credit card issuers, or that our customers will establish and maintain appropriate levels of firewall protection and other security measures. When there is unauthorized access to credit card data that results in financial loss, there is a potential that parties could seek damages from us. Additionally, changes in the security guidelines could require significant and unanticipated development efforts. We may be subject to additional tax liabilities. We are subject to income and sales taxes in the United States and all of the other countries in which we conduct business. Additionally, we may be subject to certain tariffs imposed by the World Trade Organization and other governing bodies designed to tax U.S. imports. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. This determination is highly complex and requires detailed analysis of the available information and applicable statutes and regulatory materials. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. If we receive an adverse ruling during an audit, or we unilaterally determine that we have misinterpreted provisions of the myriad tax regulations to which we are subject, there could be a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. Our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may become impaired. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings. Under GAAP, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, and therefore need to be reduced or written off altogether, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future revenues, cash flows or growth estimates, failure to meet earnings forecasts and a reduction in use or discontinuation of the purchased products. If we determine that an impairment has occurred, we are required to record a charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined. This charge will correspondingly reduce our results of operations, perhaps materially. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock Investment in our common stock involves risk and we do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The market price for our common stock has in the past experienced substantial price volatility and such volatility may occur in the future. The current global economic downturn and negative market conditions throughout 2008 have contributed to a significant decline in the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly operating results, the results of other companies participating in the computer-based products and services industry, changes in conditions in the economy or the financial markets of the computer products and services industries, natural disasters or other developments affecting us or our competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology stocks and have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. For the foreseeable future, it is expected that earnings, if any, generated from our operations will be used to finance the growth of our business, and that no dividends will be paid to holders of our common stock. Our executive officers own a significant amount of our common stock and will be able to exercise significant influence on matters requiring shareholder approval. Our executive officers collectively owned approximately 15% of our outstanding common stock as of March 2, 2009. Consequently, together they continue to be able to exert significant influence over the election of our directors, the outcome of most corporate actions requiring shareholder approval and our business. Our Articles of Incorporation contain anti-takeover provisions which could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of the preferred stock without further vote or action by our shareholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. While we have no present intention to issue any shares of preferred stock, such issuance, while providing desired flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate actions, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. For example, an issuance of preferred stock could: • adversely affect the voting power of the stockholders of our common stock; • make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of us; • discourage bids for our common stock at a premium; • limit or eliminate any payments that the stockholders of our common stock could expect to receive upon our liquidation; or • otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of our 2008 fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 