Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and in Radiant’s prior periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). These and many other factors could affect Radiant’s future financial condition and operating results and could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations based on forward-looking statements made in this document or elsewhere by Radiant or on its behalf. Radiant undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements. The following information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. 1 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Founded in 1985 and headquartered in Alpharetta, Georgia, we are a leading provider of technology solutions for managing site operations in the hospitality and retail industries. We were founded as a New York corporation and subsequently reincorporated as a Georgia corporation. Our principal executive office is located at 3925 Brookside Parkway, Alpharetta, Georgia 30022 and our telephone number is (770) 576-6000. With over 100,000 installations in more than 75 countries worldwide, our customers include leading brands and venues in the restaurant and food service, sports and entertainment, petroleum and convenience, and specialty retail markets. Our solutions allow our customers to improve customer service and loyalty, improve speed of service, increase revenue per transaction through suggestive selling, loyalty programs and point of purchase promotion displays, and optimize labor and inventory resources. At the core of our solution portfolio is a robust point-of-sale (“POS”) solution, consisting of software and hardware that can be deployed as a touch-screen terminal, self-service kiosk or wireless handheld device. We also provide a range of subscription services to our customers, including hosting, online ordering, loyalty promotion, gift card management, employee theft and fraud prevention, site-based data security services and store and enterprise analytics. We seek to differentiate our products and services by providing retailers and foodservice operators with technology designed to allow them to provide exceptional service at the critical point of consumer interaction. We do this by developing and selling hardware, software and services that address the unique requirements of the highly specialized store environments in which our customers operate. We support our technology solutions with services such as software and hardware support, installation, training and solutions consulting. We sell our products and services directly through our sales force and indirectly through resellers, which we refer to as our channel partners, both in the United States and internationally. Our direct sales personnel focus on selling our technology solutions to larger customers, typically those with more than 50 locations. We believe that a majority of the sites in the markets we serve are owned or operated by small and medium-sized businesses. Our channel partners, many of whom are dedicated resellers of Radiant solutions, are able to serve the needs of our customers with local services and relationships backed up by our technology solutions. In both of our sales channels, we promote a consultative approach to working with customers, which is consistent with our philosophy of modular architecture and the ability for customers to integrate our solutions with existing technology, and promotes our ability to cross-sell services over time. As of December 31, 2010, we employed 1,377 people across 11 offices in the United States, Europe, Asia and Australia. Other than our employees in Salzburg, Austria who are represented by a trade group, none of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement nor have we experienced any work stoppages. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. Historically, our quarterly operating results have been affected by seasonal and cyclical trends. For example, strong fourth quarter capital equipment investments by our customers have typically been followed by slower capital expenditures in the first quarter. And, as we have continued to expand in our existing markets and into new markets around the globe, our individual revenue streams have varied based on local market fluctuations and volatilities. For example, international revenues from our European businesses typically experience a decrease in the third quarter due to the high frequency of employee and customer vacations. Also, in the European market, first and second quarter sales are positively affected by business purchases in advance of spring and summertime surges in customer volume. In Australia, our revenues typically increase in the second calendar quarter because of capital budget purchasing patterns for Australian customers, many of whose fiscal year ends in June. However, given the global marketplaces in which we now compete, and the diversified product offerings which we now provide, the effect of these seasonal and cyclical trends has been largely mitigated. And, as a result, our quarterly operating results have been somewhat more predictable than in the past. Still, many unpredictable and intermittently recurrent factors may cause our quarterly operating results to become less predictable in the future. During the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, no one customer made up 10% or more of our revenues. We are party to certain contracts with the U.S. Government, which contain standard termination for convenience clauses. We do not anticipate any material adverse financial impact if the U.S. Government elects to exercise its rights under these termination clauses. 2 Table of Contents Our Solutions We provide the global retail and hospitality markets with technology solutions that address the needs of managing businesses that range from a single store or restaurant to global chains and the world’s largest sports stadiums. Our strategy is to provide targeted solutions for each market with the common goal of enabling our customers to provide exceptional service at the critical point of consumer interaction. Point-of-Sale Systems. Our POS hardware and software solutions are designed to increase speed and quality of service, minimize training and provide enhanced reliability while delivering secure and personalized service to the consumer. To that end, we offer a variety of site management systems, including POS, self-service kiosk, and back-office systems. These systems consist of touch screen terminals, servers, handheld devices and peripherals, including printers, customer displays and cash drawers, as well as POS and back-office software that can be integrated with third-party solutions. Our POS software runs on multiple open hardware platforms including our own POS terminals and our hardware runs a variety of other POS software platforms. Subscription Services, Maintenance and Customer Support and Transaction Processing. Our subscription services have become a significant enhancement to our value proposition and provide flexibility in supporting our customers. Our hosting model allows customers to implement our software solutions without requiring them to use their own hardware capacity or maintain the software application on their own systems and is available on a monthly fee basis. Our subscription services are designed to give our customers the tools they need to effectively capitalize on revenue opportunities and minimize costs and losses. We also offer customer support on a 24-hour basis, a service that historically has been purchased by a majority of our customers. We focus on providing quality service and ensuring a first time fix for any technical issue with our hardware. Our hardware and software maintenance programs provide flexible solutions that can be customized to meet specific customer needs and enhancements to our products, including product updates. We also offer electronic payment processing services, which provide an integrated, turnkey solution for a wide variety of payment methods, including credit, debit and gift card payments. Professional Services. We believe our professional services play a critical role in the successful design, implementation, application, installation and integration of our solutions. Additionally, we can remotely access customers’ systems in order to perform quick diagnostics and provide on-line assistance. Our Markets, Segments and Customers We believe that the global market for technology solutions like ours is large and generally under-addressed. The number of global sites that we estimate can utilize our advanced technology solutions is approximately five million, with much of the existing information systems in the hospitality and retail industries consisting of stand-alone devices, such as cash registers or other POS systems. Further, we believe that hospitality and retail consumer preferences for value and convenience have created a greater need for timely data about consumer buying patterns and preferences, particularly among small and medium-sized businesses. We believe that this has resulted in increased demand for systems that capture detailed consumer activity data at the point-of-sale, and store and transport that data in an easy-to-access manner. Lastly, attention towards security issues, such as identity theft and operating safeguards, and the resulting requirements imposed by credit and debit card associations have encouraged hospitality and retail operators to replace or upgrade existing systems to comply with these requirements. We operate in three reportable segments: (1) Hospitality-Americas, (2) Retail & Entertainment-Americas and (3) International. An overview of the operations and certain customers within each segment follows below. For more information regarding revenues, direct operating income and total assets attributable to our reportable segments, please refer to the information presented in Note 14 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements presented in Part II, Item 8 of this report. These segments became effective January 1, 2010 and replace the former reportable segments of Hospitality and Retail. All information reported for earlier years has been reclassified to present data in accordance with the new segments. 3 Table of Contents Hospitality-Americas Segment. Our Hospitality-Americas segment provides an integrated technology solution which meets the needs of a wide variety of hospitality operators in North, Central and South America. The majority of our revenues in this segment are derived from quick service, fast casual and table service restaurants. Our Aloha suite of software solutions is comprehensive, including store systems, above-store systems and supporting services. The store systems offering is comprised of innovative hardware, advanced POS software and related modules for automating store operations. These valuable modules include applications for processing payments, serving takeout and delivery customers, improving kitchen production, enhancing guest management and enabling handheld ordering and payment. The solution’s above-store systems include world-class data center hosting capabilities and cloud-based software platforms. These provide enterprise-wide reporting and alerting, management of labor and inventory costs, loss prevention, store systems management, stored value and loyalty applications for consumers, and other platforms for engaging consumers directly including online ordering and online reservations. When combined, the solution’s store systems and above-store systems provide integrated functionality which is unprecedented in the hospitality industry. The resulting capabilities allow restaurant operators of all sizes to achieve superior operational performance and consumer engagement while also delivering exceptional consumer experiences. In addition to being tightly integrated, the components of our hospitality solutions are also modular and open, allowing operators to purchase components in stages, incorporating them into existing systems. This approach maximizes both customer choice and our opportunities to engage new customers, allowing us to win the business of more customers and increase our share of their technology spending over time. Supporting services for the solution include custom software development, consulting, help desk support and field services. Some combination of these valuable services is utilized by virtually every customer in the hospitality industry, assisting in the development of long-term relationships with highly satisfied customers. Customers who have licensed or purchased our hospitality products and services include Brinker International, Bruegger’s Enterprises, Burger King, Café Rio Mexican Grill, California Pizza Kitchen, CEC Entertainment, Checker’s Drive-In Restaurants, Chick-fil-A, Chipotle Mexican Grill, Cosi, Culver’s, Del Taco, Dunkin’ Brands, Five Guys Burgers & Fries, Hillstone Restaurant Group, Jamba Juice Company, Jason’s Deli, Landry’s Restaurants, Morton’s of Chicago, On The Border, Papa Murphy’s, P.F. Chang’s China Bistro, Potbelly, Rock Bottom Restaurants, Romano’s Macaroni Grill, Smokey Bones, Texas Roadhouse and Wendy’s/Arby’s Group. Retail & Entertainment-Americas Segment. Our Retail & Entertainment-Americas segment provides store and office-oriented technologies for the automation of retail businesses in North, Central and South America, from specialized retailers to large convenience store chains and POS solutions for entertainment venues including stadiums, arenas and cinemas. The business within this segment remains highly fragmented, with more than one million retailers and many competing solutions consisting largely of a combination of off-the-shelf offerings from large software companies and small niche players. As consumer preferences shift towards value and convenience, businesses within this segment have begun focusing more on relevant customer spending patterns and preferences. We believe that through the use of more fully integrated systems, these businesses are able to improve operational efficiencies through better inventory management, purchasing, merchandising, pricing, promotions and shrinkage control. Similarly, as high-volume retailers such as grocery stores, mass-merchants, warehouse clubs and others continue to add fuel, made-to-order food and other full service goods to their offerings, we believe there continues to be increased demand for fully integrated, feature-rich automation systems that are capable of effectively managing the entire retail operation. Customers who have licensed or purchased our retail and entertainment products and services include AMC Entertainment, Batteries Plus, Circle K, Clearview Cinemas, Cowboys Stadium, Elvis Presley Enterprises, Harkins Theatres, Hess Corporation, The Julliard School, Kroger Corporation, KwikTrip, Larry H Miller Megaplex Theatres, Live Nation, The Marcus Corporation, Sheetz, Shell Canada, Staples Center (home of the Los Angeles Lakers and Los Angeles Clippers), United Center (home of the Chicago Bulls and Chicago Blackhawks), Wawa, and Yankee Stadium. 4 Table of Contents International Segment. The International segment includes our operations in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia, Australia, and New Zealand, outside of the Company’s other two segments, and primarily focuses on restaurants and petroleum and convenience retailers. In the petroleum and convenience industry, the Company goes to market on a direct basis with major operators such as 7-Eleven Australia, ExxonMobil, Lukoil, PTT Retail Management, Repsol YPF and Royal Dutch Shell. In the restaurant industry, the Company brings the Aloha suite of products to market both on a direct basis and through a network of resellers. Resellers cover geographies as diverse as Western Europe, the Middle East, North Africa, South Africa, Southeast Asia, Greater China, Australia and New Zealand. Some of the operators that Radiant serves, either on a direct basis or through our resellers, include a number of Burger King franchisees, Gloria Jean’s Coffees, Minor Food Group, Nando’s and Wendy’s/Arby’s Group. In addition, the International segment includes the operations of Orderman, which has historically been focused on the development, manufacture and sale of wireless handheld ordering and payment devices for the hospitality industry. Approximately 200 third-party POS companies have interfaced their products with Orderman handhelds, which are distributed through a network of approximately 600 dealers, predominately in Europe. In 2010, we introduced the Columbus POS hardware terminal and associated services to the Orderman distribution channel. Designed specifically for the tastes and needs of the European hospitality market, Columbus POS is intended to be a premium product that combines high performance and reliability with distinct aesthetics and exceptional service. Our international business exposes Radiant to certain risks, such as currency, interest rate and political risks. With respect to currency risk, we transact business in different currencies primarily through our foreign subsidiaries. The fluctuation of currencies impacts sales and profitability. At times, sales and the costs associated with those sales are not denominated in the same currency. Our Competitive Strengths Flexible and Powerful Technology Solutions. Our solutions provide extensive functionality and can be integrated with a variety of third-party back-office systems, while giving our customers the ability over time to add solutions and services that are tailored to their needs. By designing our technology solutions specifically for our customers’ specialized environments, we believe our products and services improve efficiency, offer a timely return on investment and create a high cost of switching to competitors’ technology offerings. Established Provider in Target Markets. We believe we are a key vendor for POS solutions in the retail and hospitality industries. We provide an integrated technology solution and we are focused on our target markets in hospitality and retail, which we believe distinguishes us from other POS vendors and offers our customers a superior value proposition. We also provide support services that are tailored to our customers’ needs and specialized technology that we believe helps them create value and enhance their business. We have grown our installed base from approximately 50,000 active sites at December 31, 2004 to more than 100,000 active sites at December 31, 2010. Diverse Sales Strategy. We serve the technology needs of both large operators and small and medium-sized customers through a combination of direct sales and our reseller channel. Our direct sales personnel focus on selling our technology solutions to larger customers, typically those with more than 50 locations, both domestically and internationally. In order to reach smaller customers, we have focused on developing our reseller channel and supporting it with strong operational tools. We believe that our strategy to deliver a rich set of products that are easy to implement and support makes us an attractive vendor to our channel partners. Strong Customer Relationships. By delivering value-added services and products to our customers, we typically become an integral and important part of their businesses. We believe that by providing an integrated solution we increase the value of our offering and limit our customers’ desire and ability to change providers without incurring substantial switching costs. We seek to build long-term relationships with our customers. Investment in New Technologies. Our markets are subject to rapid and continual technological change. We believe that in order to compete effectively in our markets, we must provide compatible systems incorporating new technologies at competitive prices. We intend to continue to invest in our solutions and design them in a manner that allows us to achieve compatibility between our products and products that are, or that we believe will become, popular and widely adopted among our current and future customers. 5 Table of Contents Our Growth Strategy Our growth strategy is to expand and enhance our position as a leading provider of technology solutions for the hospitality and retail industries in the United States and internationally. The elements of our strategy include: Increase Our Site Penetration. We believe our markets have a total of approximately five million sites and that our existing customers represent approximately 2.0% of these sites as of December 31, 2010. In the absence of an integrated technology solution, operators in these markets typically rely on manual reporting to capture data on-site and disseminate it to different levels of management. Basic information on consumers, such as who they are, when they visit and what they buy, is not captured in sufficient detail, at the right time or in a manner that can be communicated easily to others in the organization. Similarly, information such as price changes does not flow from headquarters to individual sites in a timely manner. In addition, communication with suppliers and other vendors often remains manual, involving paperwork, delays and other process-related problems. We believe that our technology solutions, which are highly functional, scalable and easy to deploy, are well suited for increased penetration in these markets. Capture an Increasing Share of Technology Spend of our Existing or New Customers. Our products and services are flexible and modular, allowing operators to purchase components of our solutions independently or as a suite of integrated products to address specific business needs. We invest in new products and services to ensure that our evolving technology solution creates value for our customers and delivers a return on investment in a timely manner. We believe we are well-positioned with our existing customers to supply additional products and services as their business needs and complexity grow. We believe each added module delivers incremental value for our customers. In addition, we intend to grow our customer base by selling portions of our solutions, in particular our products and services that we sell as a service offering, to customers that may currently utilize competitors’ POS systems, but that need or want a portion of our solutions, such as loyalty and gift card services, e-commerce and payments applications or fraud and theft prevention. Increase our Subscription Services Revenues. Instrumental to our growth has been the development of our subscription service offerings. We plan to introduce new services to support customer loyalty and feedback as well as enhanced security and analytical tools to complement our integrated technology solution in order to increase the revenue opportunity with our existing and prospective customer base. Develop our Sales Channels. We focus on developing our sales channels within each of our targeted markets. We enhance our direct sales model by increasing customer awareness of our technology solutions and generating sales leads. We facilitate this by attending industry trade shows, conducting direct marketing programs and selectively advertising in industry publications. We intend to increase our investment in direct sales to increase the growth of our installed active sites and maintain our position as a leading provider to our customers in our target markets. We also intend to continue to build out and support our channel partner relationships to distribute our products and solutions to small and medium-sized operators. Pursue International Growth Opportunities. We believe there are substantial growth opportunities abroad as many regions, including parts of Europe, Asia and Latin America, are underserved and maintain systems that are outdated and less secure than technologies currently available. As part of our European growth strategy, we believe we have an opportunity to better leverage our existing channel partners to carry a broader set of products and increase our market reach and revenue per customer. We have also established regional offices in London, Prague, Salzburg, Shanghai, Singapore, Adelaide and Geelong and we now have active installed systems in over 75 different countries. Acquire Complementary Businesses. We believe our markets are highly fragmented. Many small and medium-sized businesses have utilized POS hardware or combined software and hardware solutions from smaller competitors over time that we believe provide less functionality than our solutions. We believe that an opportunity exists to acquire some of these smaller competitors and other businesses that provide complementary or adjacent technologies to sites within the hospitality and retail markets and facilitate the migration of their customer base over time to our technology solutions. We believe that we have demonstrated an ability to acquire and integrate complementary acquisitions in the past and we consider this to be a strength of our management team. To the extent that we believe acquisitions, joint ventures and business partnerships can better position us to serve our current segments, we will continue to pursue such opportunities in the future. 6 Table of Contents Manufacturing, Raw Materials and Supplies Our manufacturing activities consist primarily of assembling various commercial and proprietary components into finished systems near our headquarters in Georgia, and in locations in Austria and Australia. Manufacturing requires some raw materials, including a wide variety of mechanical and electrical components, to be manufactured to our specifications. We use numerous companies to supply parts, components and subassemblies for the manufacture and support of our products. Although we strive to assure that parts are available from multiple qualified suppliers, this is not always possible. Accordingly, some key parts may be obtained only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. We have sought, and will continue to seek, to minimize the risk of production and service interruptions and/or shortages of key parts by: (1) qualifying and selecting alternate suppliers for key parts; (2) monitoring the financial condition of key suppliers; (3) maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts; and (4) qualifying new parts on a timely basis. Competition The markets in which we operate are intensely competitive. We believe the principal competitive factors include product quality, reliability, performance, price, vendor and product reputation, financial stability, features and functions, ease of use, quality of support and degree of integration effort required with competitor systems. We believe we are uniquely positioned with our exclusive focus on providing site management systems for hospitality and retail businesses across the globe. Further, we believe our ability to commercialize our technology and continually improve our products, processes and services, as well as our ability to develop new products, enable us to meet continually evolving customer requirements. Our competitors include IBM, NCR, Casio, Dell, VeriFone, Dresser, Retalix, Micros Systems, Par Technology, POSitouch, Panasonic, The Pinnacle Corporation, Agilysys, Retail Pro, JDA Software, Epicor, Vista and others that provide POS and site management systems with varying degrees of functionality. We could also be faced with new market entrants attempting to develop fully integrated systems targeting the retail industry. We believe the risk of this happening is small due to the significant amount of time and effort required to create POS and back-office headquarters-based management systems, and due to the detailed knowledge required of a retailer’s operations at local sites and headquarters in order to duplicate the functionality of these products. In the market for consulting services, we compete with various companies. Many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. Proprietary Rights Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part upon our proprietary technology, including our software source code. To protect our proprietary technology, we rely on a combination of trade secret, nondisclosure, copyright and patent law, which may afford only limited protection. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. Although we rely on the limited protection afforded by such intellectual property laws, we also believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, name recognition and reliable maintenance are essential to establishing and maintaining a technology leadership position. The source code for our various proprietary software products is protected both as a trade secret and as a copyrighted work. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and customers, and generally control access to, and distribution of, our documentation and other proprietary information. Although we restrict customers’ use of our software and do not permit the unauthorized resale, sublicense or other transfer of such software, there can be no assurance that unauthorized use of our technology will not occur. Despite the measures taken by us to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to reverse engineer or copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, such as our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of our or others’ proprietary rights, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 7 Table of Contents Certain technology used in conjunction with our products is licensed from third parties, generally on a non-exclusive basis. These licenses usually require us to pay royalties and fulfill confidentiality obligations. We believe that there are alternative sources for each of the material components of technology licensed by us from third parties. However, the termination of any of these licenses, or the failure of the third-party licensors to adequately maintain or update their products, could result in a delay in our ability to ship certain of our products while we seek to implement technology offered by alternative sources. Any required alternative licenses could prove costly. Also, any such delay, to the extent it becomes extended or occurs at or near the end of a fiscal quarter, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. While it may be necessary or desirable in the future to obtain other licenses relating to one or more of our products or relating to current or future technologies, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all. There can be no assurance that we will not become the subject of infringement claims or legal proceedings by third parties with respect to our current or future products. Defending against any such claim could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or force us to enter into royalty or license agreements rather than dispute the merits of such claims. Moreover, an adverse outcome in litigation or similar adversarial proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require the expenditure of significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, require disputed rights to be licensed from others or require us to cease the marketing or use of certain products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. To the extent we desire or are required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others, there can be no assurance that any such licenses will be made available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. As the number of technology products in the industries we serve increases and the functionality of these products further overlaps, we believe that technology providers may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. Any such claims against us, with or without merit, as well as claims initiated by us against third parties, could be time consuming and expensive to defend, prosecute or resolve. Foreign Operations For information regarding revenues and long-lived assets attributable to domestic and foreign operations, please refer to the information presented in Note 14 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements presented in Part II, Item 8 of this report. Environmental Matters We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with all applicable environmental laws and presently do not anticipate that such compliance will have a material effect on our future capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position with respect to any of our operations. Available Information Radiant maintains a website at www.radiantsystems.com. Radiant makes available free of charge its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K on its website as soon as practicable after such reports are filed with the SEC. These filings can be accessed through the Investor Relations page on Radiant’s website at www.radiantsystems.com. Radiant’s common stock is traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “RADS.” 8 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this report, the following risks should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our business. I. Global Economic, Political, Market and Financial Risks Global economic and market conditions could cause decreases in demand for our products and related services, and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our revenues and profitability depend on the overall demand for our products and related services. We are impacted both directly and indirectly by declining global economic conditions. The retail and hospitality industries are cautious of investments in information technology during difficult economic times, which often results in reduced budgets and spending. This impacts us through reduced revenues, elongated selling cycles, delays in product implementation and increased competitive margin pressure. The severe downturn in global economic and market conditions that began in the second half of 2008 resulted in decreases in demand for certain of our products and related services as the tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of our customers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations. While global economic and market conditions have improved, we are unable to predict with certainty the future impact that stressed or declining global economic conditions will have on the demand for our products and related services. Volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, and adverse changes in the global economy, could have a negative impact on our ability to access the credit markets in the future and/or obtain credit on favorable terms. Since 2008, the capital and credit markets have become increasingly tight as a result of adverse economic conditions that caused the failure and near failure of a number of large financial services companies. There can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in the financial markets. If the capital and credit markets continue to experience crises and the availability of funds remains low, it is possible that our ability to access the capital and credit markets may be limited or available on less favorable terms at a time when we would like, or need, to access such markets, which could have an impact on our ability to refinance maturing debt, pursue acquisitions and/or react to changing economic and business conditions. Our current credit facility matures in January 2013. In addition, if recessionary global economic conditions persist for an extended period of time or worsen substantially, our business may suffer in a manner which could cause us to fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing credit facility. Armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, or public health issues could harm our business. Armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, or public health issues, whether in the U.S. or abroad, could cause damage or disruption to us, our suppliers or customers, or could create political or economic instability, any of which could harm our business. These events could cause a decrease in demand for our products, could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products or for our suppliers to deliver components, and could create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely impact our cash flows and earnings. Due to our global operations, our cash flow and earnings are exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Exchange rate fluctuations may also affect the cost of goods and services that we purchase. Volatility in the global capital and credit markets increases the frequency and severity of exchange rate fluctuations. Changes from our expectations for currency exchange rates can have a material impact on our financial results. When appropriate, we may attempt to limit our exposure to exchange rate changes by entering into short-term currency exchange contracts. There is no assurance that we will hedge or will be able to hedge such foreign currency exchange risk or that our hedges will be successful. Our currency exchange gains or losses (net of hedges) may materially and adversely impact our cash flows and earnings. Additionally, adverse movements in currency exchange rates could result in increases in our cost of goods sold or reduction in growth in international orders, materially impacting our cash flows and earnings. An increase in customer bankruptcies, due to weak economic conditions, could harm our business. During weak economic times, there is an increased risk that certain of our customers will file bankruptcy. If a customer files bankruptcy, we may be required to forego collection of pre-petition amounts owed and to repay amounts remitted to us during the 90-day preference period preceding the filing. The bankruptcy laws, as well as specific circumstances of each bankruptcy, may limit our ability to collect pre-petition amounts. We also face risk from international customers that file for bankruptcy protection in foreign jurisdictions, in that the application of foreign bankruptcy laws may be more difficult to predict. Although we believe that we have sufficient reserves to cover anticipated customer bankruptcies, we can provide no assurance that such reserves will be adequate, and if they are not adequate, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents Our revenues are significantly concentrated in the hospitality and retail markets and the demand for our products and services in these markets could be disproportionately affected by instability or a downturn in either market. The hospitality and retail markets are affected by a variety of factors, including global and regional instability, governmental policy and regulation, political instability, natural disasters, environmental and health disasters, consumer buying habits, consolidation in the petroleum industry, war, terrorism and general economic conditions. Adverse developments in either market could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we believe the purchase of our products is relatively discretionary and generally involves a significant commitment of capital, because purchases of our products are often accompanied by large scale hardware purchases. As a result, demand for our products and services could be disproportionately affected by instability or downturns in the hospitality and retail markets which may cause customers to exit the industry or delay, cancel or reduce planned-for information management systems and software products. We may be required to defer recognition of revenues on our software products, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We may be required to defer recognition of revenues for a significant period of time after entering into a license agreement as a result of a variety of factors, including the following: • transactions that include both currently deliverable software products and arrangements that include specified upgrades for which we have not established vendor-specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) of fair value; • transactions where the customer demands services that include significant modifications, customizations or complex interfaces that could delay product delivery or acceptance; and • transactions that involve acceptance criteria that may preclude revenue recognition or if there are identified product-related issues, such as performance issues. Because of the factors listed above and other specific requirements under generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, for software revenue recognition, we must have very precise terms in our license agreements in order to recognize revenue when we initially deliver software or perform services. Although we have a standard form of license agreement that meets the criteria under GAAP for current revenue recognition on delivered elements, we negotiate and revise these terms and conditions in some transactions. Negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions can extend the sales cycle, and sometimes result in deferred revenue recognition well after the time of delivery or project completion. Our revenues and results of operations have historically been difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter, which could adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock. Our revenues and results of operations have historically been difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter. These fluctuations can adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock. License revenues in any quarter depend substantially upon our total contracting activity and our ability to recognize revenues in that quarter in accordance with our revenue recognition policies. Our contracting activity is difficult to forecast for a variety of reasons, many of which can be intermittently recurrent, including the following: • our sales cycle is relatively long and varies as a result of us expanding our product line and broadening our software product applications to cover a customer’s overall business; • the size of license transactions can vary significantly; • economic downturns are often characterized by decreased product demand, price erosion, technological shifts, work slowdowns and layoffs, which can substantially reduce contracting activity; • customers may unexpectedly postpone or cancel anticipated system replacements or new system evaluations due to changes in their strategic priorities, project objectives, budgetary constraints or management; • customer evaluations and purchasing processes vary significantly from company to company, and a customer’s internal approval and expenditure authorization process can be difficult and time consuming, even after selection of a vendor; • changes in our pricing policies and discount plans may affect customer purchasing patterns; • the number, timing and significance of our and our competitors’ software product enhancements and new software product announcements may affect purchasing decisions; • the introduction of new research and development projects requires us to significantly increase our operating expenses to fund greater levels of product development and to develop and commercialize additional products and services; 10 Table of Contents • certain expenses, including those over which we exercise little or no control, such as health costs, compliance with new legislation, and property and liability insurance, may be difficult to manage; and • fluctuations in the value of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar or weakening of the U.S. dollar may adversely impact our ability to purchase materials at a competitive price. In addition, our expense levels, operating costs and hiring plans are based on projections of future revenues and are relatively fixed. If our actual revenues fall below expectations, our net income is likely to be disproportionately adversely affected. Due to all of the foregoing factors, in some future quarters our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In such event, the market price of our common stock would likely decrease. Our gross margins may vary significantly or decline. Since the gross margins on product revenues are significantly greater than the gross margins on services revenues, our combined gross margin has fluctuated from quarter to quarter and it may continue to fluctuate significantly based on revenue mix. We operate in a highly competitive market and can give no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. The market for retail information systems is intensely competitive. We believe the principal competitive factors are product quality, reliability, performance and price, vendor and product reputation, financial stability, features and functions, ease of use, quality of support, and degree of integration effort required with other systems. A number of companies offer competitive products addressing certain of our target markets. In addition, we believe that new market entrants may attempt to develop fully integrated systems targeting the retail industry. In the market for consulting services, we compete with various systems integrators. Many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, we compete with a variety of hardware and software vendors. Some of our competitors may have advantages over us due to their significant worldwide presence, longer operating and product development history, and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources. If competitors offer more favorable payment terms and/or more favorable contractual implementation terms or guarantees, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such changes would likely reduce our margins. Our increased investment in the international market could expose us to risks in addition to those experienced in the United States. The global reach of our business could cause us to be subject to unexpected, uncontrollable and rapidly changing events and circumstances in addition to those experienced in domestic locations. The following factors, among others, present risks that could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition: • weaker protection of intellectual property rights; • an inability to replicate previous international revenues; • currency controls and fluctuations in currency exchange rates and the potential inability to hedge the currency risk in some transactions because of uncertainty or the inability to reasonably estimate our foreign exchange exposure; • possible increased costs and development time to adapt our products to local markets; • potential lack of experience in a particular geographic market; • legal, regulatory, social, political, labor or economic conditions in a specific country or region, including loss or modification of exemptions for taxes and tariffs, and import and export license requirements which may have a negative impact on us; • higher operating costs in many foreign countries; • anti-American sentiment due to American policies that may be unpopular in certain regions; and • challenges of finding qualified personnel for our international operations. 11 Table of Contents II. Technology, Infrastructure and Security Risks Our success will depend on our ability to develop new products and to adapt to rapid technological change. The types of products sold by us are subject to rapid and continual technological change. Products available from us, as well as from our competitors, have increasingly offered a wider range of features and capabilities. We believe that in order to compete effectively in selected vertical markets, we must provide compatible systems incorporating new technologies at competitive prices. To the extent we determine that new software and hardware technologies are required to remain competitive or our customers demand more advanced offerings, the development, acquisition and implementation of these technologies are likely to require significant capital investments by us. To the extent that such expenses precede or are not subsequently followed by increased revenues, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to continue funding research and development at levels sufficient to enhance our current product offerings or be able to develop and introduce on a timely basis new products that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards and address the evolving needs of customers. There can also be no assurance that we will not experience difficulties that will result in delaying or preventing the successful development, introduction and marketing of new products in our existing markets or that our new products and product enhancements will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve any significant degree of market acceptance. Likewise, there can be no assurance as to the acceptance of our products in new markets, nor can there be any assurance as to the success of our penetration of these markets, or to the revenue levels or profit margins with respect to these products. Our inability, for any reason, to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we strive to achieve compatibility between our products and retail systems that we believe are or will become popular and widely adopted. We invest substantial resources in development efforts aimed at achieving such compatibility. Any failure by us to anticipate or respond adequately to technology or market developments could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our success and ability to compete are dependent upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology. Our success and ability to compete are dependent in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trade secret laws and non-disclosure agreements to protect this proprietary technology. We enter into confidentiality and non-solicitation agreements with our employees and license agreements with our customers and potential customers, which limit access to and distribution of our technology, documentation and other proprietary information. We can provide no assurance that the steps taken by us to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, such as our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of our or others’ proprietary rights, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Certain technology used in conjunction with our products is licensed from third parties, generally on a non-exclusive basis. The termination of any of these licenses, or the failure of the third-party licensors to maintain or update their products adequately, could result in delay in our ability to ship certain of our products while we seek to implement technology offered by alternative sources, and any required replacement licenses could prove costly. While it may be necessary or desirable in the future to obtain other licenses relating to one or more of our products or relating to current or future technologies, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 12 Table of Contents If the emerging platforms of Microsoft and others with which we integrate our products does not gain or retain broad market acceptance, or if we fail to develop new software compatible with such emerging technologies, we may not be able to compete effectively and our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer. Our software architecture is modular and predominantly based on open platforms (notable exceptions being our Quest products and our Orderman Sol handhelds, which utilize proprietary operating systems), allowing it to be phased into a customer’s operations. For example, we have developed numerous applications running on Microsoft Windows-based platforms, including Windows Server, Windows, Windows Embedded, and Windows CE operating systems. To date, the platforms we have chosen to integrate our products with have proven to be popular and gained broad industry acceptance. However, the market for our software is subject to ongoing rapid technological developments and quickly evolving industry standards, and there may be existing or future platforms that achieve industry acceptance which are not compatible with our software. In addition, when new or updated versions of these platforms are introduced, it is often necessary for us to develop updated versions of our software so that it operates properly with these computing platforms. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to accomplish these developments quickly or cost-effectively. In addition, these development efforts require substantial investment and the devotion of substantial employee resources. The inability of our software to operate with popular third party platforms would likely adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may have difficulty implementing our products, which could damage our reputation and our ability to generate new business. Implementation of our software products can be a lengthy process, and commitment of resources by our customers is subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control. Delays in the implementations of any of our software products, whether by our business partners or us, may result in customer dissatisfaction, disputes with customers, or damage to our reputation. Significant problems implementing our software can cause delays or prevent us from collecting fees for our software and can damage our ability to generate new business. Errors or defects in our software products could diminish demand for our products, injure our reputation and reduce our operating results. Our software products are complex and may contain errors that could be detected at any point in the life of the product. We can provide no assurances that errors will not be found in new products or releases after shipment. Such errors could result in diminished demand for our products, delays in market acceptance and sales, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation or increased service and warranty costs. If any of these were to occur, our operating results could be adversely affected. Damage to our manufacturing site and/or office space could limit our ability to operate our business. We do not have redundant, multiple-site manufacturing capacity, nor do we have redundant capabilities for our office space and key operating systems. Therefore, damage to these sites from a natural disaster or other catastrophic event such as fire, flood, terrorist attack, power loss and other similar events could cause interruptions or delays in our manufacturing process or render us unable to accept and fulfill customer orders. We have not established a formal disaster recovery plan and our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for any losses we may suffer. Our products and services could be vulnerable to unauthorized access and hacking, and any security breach could have a significant effect on our business and could expose us to material liability. Our systems are used by our customers to collect, store, process and transmit sensitive and confidential information, including credit card data and personally identifiable information. Credit card issuers have promulgated security guidelines as part of their ongoing effort to battle theft and credit card fraud. We continue to work with the credit card issuers to assure that our products and services comply with the credit card associations’ security regulations and best practices applicable to our products and services. While we believe that all of our current software complies with applicable industry security requirements and that we use appropriate security measures to reduce the possibility of a breach through our support and other systems, we can provide no assurance that our customers’ systems will not be breached or that all unauthorized access can be prevented. In addition, the confidential information processed by our systems may be compromised if our customers do not maintain appropriate security procedures and configurations. There can be no guarantee that our customers will implement all of the security features that we introduce or all of the protection and procedures required by the credit card issuers or applicable laws, or that our customers will establish and maintain appropriate levels of firewall protection and other security measures and configurations. The confidentiality of the information processed by our products and services is critical to the successful operation of our business and when there is unauthorized access to such information that results in financial loss, we could be exposed to litigation initiated by our customers or third parties, indemnity obligations and other material liability. 13 Table of Contents Infrastructure disruptions or breaches of data security could harm our business. We depend on our information technology and manufacturing infrastructure in our business. If a disruption, such as a computer virus, natural disaster, failure of a manufacturing or telecommunications system, lost connectivity, or intentional tampering or data-breach by a third party impairs our infrastructure, we may be unable to receive or process orders, manufacture and ship products in a timely manner, or otherwise conduct our business as usual. Security breaches may be a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and may result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our data or our customers’ data. Any security breach or disruption could result in a loss of vital information, loss of confidence in the security of our service, unintentional disclosure of Company or customer information, damage to our reputation, legal liability and negative impacts on our future sales. We also could incur significant expense in remediating these problems and in addressing related data security and privacy concerns. Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party data center hosting facilities could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business. We currently offer our customers services through a “hosted solutions” model, which allows customers to implement our software solutions without having to use their own hardware or maintain the software application on their own systems. We serve these customers from third-party data center hosting facilities. Any damage to, or failure of, our systems generally could result in interruptions in our service. Interruptions in our service may reduce our revenues, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our renewal rates and our ability to attract new customers. Our business will also be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our service is unreliable. We do not control the operation of any of these hosting facilities, and they are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. III. Operational, Supply and Resource/Personnel Risks Our failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The growth in the size and complexity of our business and the expansion of our product lines and customer base may place a significant strain on our management and operations. An increase in the demand for our products could strain our resources or result in delivery problems, delayed software releases, slow response time, or insufficient resources for assisting customers with implementation of our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We anticipate that continued growth, if any, will require us to recruit, hire and assimilate a substantial number of new employees, including consulting, product development, sales and marketing, and administrative personnel. Our ability to compete effectively and to manage future growth, if any, will also depend on our ability to continue to implement and improve operational, financial and management information systems on a timely basis and to expand, train, motivate and manage our work force, particularly our direct sales force and consulting services organization. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to manage any future growth, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our acquisition of existing businesses and our failure to successfully integrate these businesses could disrupt our business, dilute our common stock and harm our operating results and financial condition. As part of our operating history and growth strategy, we have acquired other businesses. In the future, we will continue to seek acquisition candidates in selected markets and from time to time engage in exploratory discussions with suitable candidates. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to identify and acquire targeted businesses or obtain financing for such acquisitions on satisfactory terms. The process of integrating acquired businesses into our operations may result in unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of resources and management attention. In particular, the integration of acquired technologies with our existing products could cause delays in the introduction of new products. In connection with future acquisitions, we may incur significant charges to earnings as a result of, among other things, the write-off of purchased research and development. 14 Table of Contents Future acquisitions may be financed through the issuance of common stock, which may dilute the ownership of our shareholders, or through the incurrence of additional indebtedness. Furthermore, we can provide no assurance that competition for acquisition candidates will not escalate, thereby increasing the costs of making acquisitions or making suitable acquisitions unattainable. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: • problems combining the acquired operations, technologies or products; • unanticipated costs or liabilities; • diversion of management’s attention; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organizations. For example, until we actually assume operating control of the business assets and operations, it is difficult to ascertain with precision the actual value or the potential liabilities of our acquisitions. We may not be able to integrate successfully any business, technologies or personnel that we have acquired or that we might acquire in the future, and this could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We could experience manufacturing interruptions, delays, or inefficiencies if we are unable to procure in a timely and reliable manner components and products from single-source or limited-source suppliers. Our manufacturing activities consist primarily of assembling various commercial and proprietary components into finished systems. Manufacturing requires some raw materials, including a wide variety of mechanical and electrical components that are manufactured by third parties to our specifications. Although we strive to assure that parts are available from multiple qualified suppliers, this is not always possible. We maintain several single-source or limited-source supplier relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or because the relationships are advantageous to us due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. If the supply of a critical single or limited-source product or component is delayed or curtailed, we may not be able to ship the related product in desired quantities and in a timely manner. Even where multiple sources of supply are available, qualification of the alternative suppliers and establishment of reliable supplies could result in delays and a possible loss of sales, which could harm our operating results. The loss of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. Our future success depends in part on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our inability to attract, hire or retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate skilled technical and managerial personnel, especially highly skilled engineers involved in ongoing product development and consulting personnel who assist in the development and implementation of our total business solutions. The market for such individuals is intensely competitive. Due to the critical role of our product development and consulting staffs, the inability to recruit successfully or the loss of a significant part of our product development or consulting staffs could have a material adverse effect on us. The software industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to retain our current personnel, or that we will be able to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future. This could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. IV. Legal and Accounting Risks If we become subject to adverse claims alleging infringement of third-party proprietary rights, we may incur substantial unanticipated costs and our competitive position may suffer. There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the technology industry regarding intellectual property rights. It is possible that in the future third parties may claim that our current or potential future technology solutions infringe on their intellectual property. We anticipate that developers of technology products will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry grows. We can provide no assurance that we will not be subject to such third-party claims, litigation or indemnity demands or that these claims will not be successful. If a claim or indemnity demand were to be brought against us, it could result in costly litigation or product shipment delays, or force us to stop selling or providing products or services, or enter into costly royalty or license agreements. 15 Table of Contents We may be subject to additional tax liabilities. We are subject to income and sales taxes in the United States and all of the other countries in which we conduct business. Additionally, we may be subject to certain tariffs imposed by the World Trade Organization and other governing bodies designed to tax U.S. imports. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. This determination is highly complex and requires detailed analysis of the available information and applicable statutes and regulatory materials. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. If we receive an adverse ruling during an audit, or we unilaterally determine that we have misinterpreted provisions of the myriad tax regulations to which we are subject, there could be a material adverse effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. We have recorded a large amount of goodwill and other acquired intangible assets on our balance sheet and, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, we were required to record a non-cash charge to earnings. Under GAAP, we review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill and indefinite-live intangible assets are required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable, and therefore need to be reduced or written off altogether, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future revenues, cash flows or growth estimates, failure to meet earnings forecasts and a reduction in use or discontinuation of purchased products. In connection with our acquisitions we have goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet. The Company’s annual impairment analysis completed on January 1, 2011 indicated no impairment of either goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets. However, on January 1, 2010, we determined that the carrying value of goodwill and certain other indefinite-lived intangible assets was in excess of their fair values. Therefore, we were required to record a provisional, non-cash charge to earnings in the amount of $20.9 million. This charge resulted in a net loss of $9.4 million, or $0.29 per share, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. In the second quarter of 2010 upon completion of the valuation analysis, the Company recorded a $0.3 million gain as a true-up adjustment to the initial charge. In future periods, if we determine that an impairment has occurred, we will similarly be required to record a charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets is determined. Any such charge will correspondingly reduce our results of operations, perhaps materially. Our Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system upgrade could result in financial statement errors and/or impact our ability to meet deadlines for future SEC filings. On January 1, 2010, we completed an upgrade of our ERP system. This is an integrated computer-based system used to manage internal and external resources including tangible assets, financial resources, materials, and human resources. The system facilitates the flow of information between all business functions within the Company and is ultimately our system of record for accounting and financial reporting. We have thoroughly tested the system to ensure it is working properly and as designed. However, we can provide no assurance that undetected errors will not occur, including errors that are individually immaterial but that become material over time when aggregated. Further, we can provide no assurance that errors that are detected will be corrected in a timely manner to enable the Company to meet its future SEC filing deadlines. Ineffective internal controls could adversely impact our business and operating results. Our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. Our use of accounting estimates involves judgment and could impact our financial results. The application of generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions about certain items and future events that directly affect our reported financial results and condition. Our most critical accounting estimates are described in the footnotes to our consolidated financial statements contained in this report and in the section “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” These estimates and assumptions involve the use of judgment. As a result, our actual financial results may differ. 16 Table of Contents Assumptions and inputs used in our stock-based compensation expense calculations could change. Similar to other companies, we use stock awards as a form of compensation for our key employees and directors. All stock-based payments to employees and directors, including grants of restricted stock and employee stock options, are required to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values. The amount recognized for stock compensation expense could vary depending on a number of assumptions or changes that may occur. For example, assumptions such as the risk-free rate, expected holding period and expected volatility that drive our valuation model could change. Other examples that could have an impact include changes in the mix and type of awards, changes in our compensation plans or tax rate, changes in our forfeiture rate, differences in actual results compared to management’s estimates for performance-based awards, or an unusually high amount of expirations of stock options. V. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock Our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and investors could lose all or a part of their investments as a result. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. In the fifty-two week period ended December 31, 2010, the sale price of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Select Market ranged from $10.31 to $20.69 per share. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly as a result of many factors in addition to the factors discussed in these risk factors. These factors, most of which are beyond our control, include: • fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; • success of our operating and growth strategies; • investor anticipation of competitive and industry threats, whether or not warranted by actual events; • operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies or companies investors may deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends in our industry or general economic conditions; and • realization of any of the risks described in these risk factors. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced, and in the future may experience, extreme volatility. Such volatility may reflect fluctuations that are unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, which could cause purchasers of our common stock to incur substantial losses. Investors in our common stock may experience future dilution. In order to raise additional capital, we may in the future offer additional shares of our common stock, or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock, in transactions that may be dilutive to existing holders of our common stock. The sale of such shares also has potential to cause significant downward pressure on the price of our common stock. This is particularly the case if the shares being placed into the market exceed the market’s ability to absorb the increased outstanding stock. Such an event could place further downward pressure on the price of our common stock. This could present an opportunity for short sellers to contribute to a further decline of our stock price. If there are significant short sales of our stock, the price decline that would result from such activity likely would cause the share price to decline, which, in turn, may cause persons who actually hold our stock to sell their shares, thereby contributing to a further share price decline of our common stock in the market. Our executive officers own a significant amount of our common stock and will be able to exercise significant influence on matters requiring shareholder approval. Our executive officers collectively owned approximately 8% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2010. Consequently, together they continue to be able to exert significant influence over the election of our directors, the outcome of most corporate actions requiring shareholder approval and our business. 17 Table of Contents Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions which could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of the preferred stock without further vote or action by our shareholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of any shares of preferred stock, while providing desired flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate actions, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. For example, an issuance of preferred stock could: • adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock; • make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of us; • discourage bids for our common stock at a premium; • limit or eliminate any payments that the holders of our common stock could expect to receive upon our liquidation; or • otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, our articles of incorporation divide our board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered three-year term. Since the classification of the board of directors generally increases the difficulty of replacing a majority of the board of directors, it is likely to discourage a third party from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws also provide that the provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws can only be amended by a supermajority vote (at least 75%) of shareholders. In addition, our bylaws prohibit us from engaging in certain business combinations, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of our 2010 fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 