Item 1A. Risk Factors Farmer Mac’s business activities, financial performance and results of operations are, by their nature, subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Consequently, the Corporation’s net interest income, total revenues and net income have been, and are likely to continue to be, subject to fluctuations that reflect the effect of many factors, including the risk factors described below. These risks are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report may include additional factors that could adversely affect Farmer Mac’s business and its financial performance and results of operations. Furthermore, because new risk factors likely will emerge from time to time, management can neither predict all such risk factors nor assess the effects of such factors on Farmer Mac’s business, operating results and financial condition or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may affect the Corporation’s actual results and financial condition. If any of the following risks materialize, Farmer Mac’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Farmer Mac’s business, operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected by external factors that may be beyond its control. Farmer Mac’s business, operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected by external factors that may be beyond its control, including but not limited to: · legislative or regulatory developments or interpretations of Farmer Mac’s statutory charter that could adversely affect Farmer Mac, its ability to offer new products, the ability or motivation of certain lenders to participate in its programs or the terms of any such participation, or increase the cost of regulation and related corporate activities, including but not limited to: o the possible establishment of additional statutory or regulatory restrictions or constraints on Farmer Mac that could hamper its growth or diminish its profitability; and o the possible effect of Farmer Mac’s risk-based capital requirement, which could, under certain circumstances, exceed its statutory minimum capital requirement; · Farmer Mac’s access to the debt markets at favorable rates and terms; · competitive pressures in the purchase of agricultural mortgage loans and the sale of Farmer Mac Guaranteed Securities and debt securities; · substantial changes in interest rates, agricultural land values, commodity prices, export demand for U.S. agricultural products, the general economy, and other factors that may affect delinquency levels and credit losses on agricultural mortgage loans; · protracted adverse weather, animal and plant disease outbreaks, market or other conditions affecting particular geographic regions or particular agricultural commodities or products related to agricultural mortgage loans backing Farmer Mac I Guaranteed Securities or under LTSPCs; and · the effects of any changes in federal assistance for agriculture on the agricultural economy or the value of agricultural real estate. Farmer Mac’s business development and profitability depend on the continued growth of the secondary market for agricultural mortgage loans, the future of which remains uncertain. Continued growth in Farmer Mac’s business may be constrained by conditions that limit the need for agricultural lenders to obtain the benefits of Farmer Mac’s programs, including for example: · high levels of available capital and liquidity of agricultural lenders; · the availability of alternative sources of funding and credit enhancement for agricultural lenders; · downturns in the agricultural economy that could reduce growth rates and the need for capital in the agricultural mortgage market; · increased competition in the secondary market for purchases of quality agricultural mortgage loans; · reduced growth rates in the agricultural mortgage market, due largely to the strong liquidity of many farmers and ranchers; · the lower rate of growth of the Farm Credit System mortgage portfolio, reducing the demand for LTSPCs; · the historical preference of many agricultural lending institutions to retain loans in their portfolios rather than to sell them into the secondary market, notwithstanding the corporate finance and capital planning benefits they might otherwise realize through participation in Farmer Mac’s programs; · the ability of some lending institutions to subsidize, in effect, their agricultural mortgage loan rates through low-return use of equity or acceptance of greater asset and liability mismatch; and · legislative and regulatory developments in this area, as further discussed below. As a result of these factors, Farmer Mac may not be able to meet its business development and profitability goals. To the extent that Farmer Mac fails to meet these goals, its total revenues, net income and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Farmer Mac is a government-sponsored enterprise whose continued growth may be adversely affected by legislative and regulatory developments. Farmer Mac is a government-sponsored enterprise that is governed by a statutory charter controlled by the U.S. Congress and regulated by governmental agencies. Consequently, Farmer Mac is subject to risks related to legislative, regulatory or political developments. Such developments could affect the ability of lenders to participate in Farmer Mac’s programs or the terms on which they may participate. Further, from time to time, legislative or regulatory initiatives are commenced that, if successful, could result in the enactment of legislation or the promulgation of regulations that could affect negatively the growth or operation of the secondary market for agricultural mortgages. Any of these political or regulatory developments could have a material and adverse effect on Farmer Mac’s business. See “Government Regulation of Farmer Mac” in Item 1 of this report for additional discussion on the rules and regulations governing Farmer Mac’s activities. Farmer Mac Guaranteed Securities and LTSPCs expose Farmer Mac to significant contingent liabilities and its ability to fulfill its obligations under its guarantees and LTSPCs may be limited. Farmer Mac guarantees the timely payment of principal and interest on Farmer Mac Guaranteed Securities, which are backed by qualified agricultural real estate mortgage loans. As a result of its guarantee, Farmer Mac assumes the ultimate credit risk of borrower defaults on the underlying loans. Farmer Mac also issues LTSPCs for pools of qualified loans that commit Farmer Mac to purchase certain loans under enumerated circumstances on undetermined future dates. Repayment of the qualified loans underlying Farmer Mac Guaranteed Securities or subject to LTSPCs typically depends on the success of the related farming operation, which, in turn, depends on many variables and factors over which farmers may have little or no control, such as weather conditions, animal and plant disease outbreaks, economic conditions (both domestic and international) and political conditions. If the cash flow from a farming operation decreases (for example, as a result of adverse weather conditions that destroy a crop or that prevent the planting or harvesting of a crop), the farmer’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Protracted adverse weather, animal and plant disease outbreaks, market or other conditions affecting a particular geographic region and particular commodities related to the agricultural mortgage loans backing Farmer Mac Guaranteed Securities or subject to LTSPCs, or significant loan payment defaults by farmers for other reasons, could require Farmer Mac to pay under its guarantees and LTSPCs and could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Farmer Mac Guaranteed Securities and LTSPCs are obligations of Farmer Mac only, and are not backed by the full faith and credit of the United States, FCA or any other agency or instrumentality of the United States other than Farmer Mac. Farmer Mac’s principal source of funds for the payment of claims under its guarantees and purchase commitments are the fees received in connection with outstanding Farmer Mac Guaranteed Securities and LTSPCs. These amounts are, and will continue to be, substantially less than the amount of Farmer Mac’s aggregate contingent liabilities under its guarantees and LTSPCs. Farmer Mac is required to set aside a portion of the fees it receives as a reserve against losses from its guarantee and commitment activities. Farmer Mac expects that its future contingent liabilities for its guarantee and commitment activities will continue to grow and will exceed Farmer Mac’s resources, including amounts in the Corporation’s allowance for losses and its limited ability to borrow from the United States Treasury. Farmer Mac is exposed to credit risk and interest rate risk that could materially and adversely affect its financial condition and future earnings. The primary types of risk in the conduct of Farmer Mac’s business are: · credit risk associated with the agricultural mortgage loans that Farmer Mac purchases or commits to purchase or that back Farmer Mac Guaranteed Securities; · interest rate risk on all program and non-program assets held on balance sheet, that results principally from: o potential changes in the relationship between the interest rates paid by the Corporation on its liabilities and the yields it receives on investments of like maturity or reset term; or o potential timing differences between the maturities or interest rate resets of the assets and the liabilities used to fund the acquisition and carry of the assets; · credit risk associated with Farmer Mac’s business relationships with other institutions, such as counterparties to swap and other hedging arrangements; and · risks as to the creditworthiness of the issuers of AgVantage securities and the Corporation’s non-program investments. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect Farmer Mac’s financial condition and future earnings. For additional discussion about the Corporation’s risk management, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Risk Management” in Item 7 of this report. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 