RISK FACTORS Our future financial condition, results of operations and business could be materially affected by the risks and uncertainties discussed below, or otherwise, and historic trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods: Risks Related to our Industry WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO GET TIMELY REGULATORY APPROVAL FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND WE MUST COMPLY WITH REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS TO MANUFACTURE AND MARKET OUR PRODUCTS. The manufacturing and marketing of our existing and potential products, as well as preclinical studies and clinical trials, are subject to extensive regulation and approval by the Therapeutic Products Directorate (“TPD”) of the Health Products and Food Branch Inspectorate of Health Canada (“HPFBI”) and other authorities in Canada and by numerous federal, state and local government authorities in the United States, including the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). Similar regulatory requirements exist in Europe and other countries. To the extent we choose to distribute our products in foreign markets, we may rely on licensees to obtain regulatory approvals in such countries. Any failure or delay by us, our collaborators or licensees to comply with applicable requirements or obtain regulatory approvals for our products could adversely affect the marketing of products developed or licensed by us and our ability to receive product or royalty revenue. As of December 31, 2007, DRAXIMAGE had six regulatory submissions filed with European regulatory authorities: four with the Medicines Evaluation Board in the Netherlands, one with the Danish Medicines Agency, and one in Denmark under the decentralized procedure. The submission dates for the radiopharmaceutical products filed in the Netherlands and with the Danish Medicine Agency range from June 2003 to December 2004 (except for one regulatory submission re-filed in Denmark in 2007 for rewording). All of the approvals, except for the most recent submission, sought by DRAXIMAGE in Europe are for marketing authorizations through the mutual recognition procedure, which involves obtaining approval in one state (the “reference member state”) and recognition of that approval in other member states. Five of the approvals being sought by DRAXIMAGE in Europe are for radiopharmaceutical products already approved in Canada or the U.S. The most recent submission is for DRAXIMAGEÒ Sestamibi which has not yet received approval in Canada or the U.S. Two of these six European submissions, made for DRAXIMAGE MAA kit and MDP kit, received approval in a reference member state, the Netherlands, in February 2005 and March 2006. The MDP kit also received approval in the United Kingdom in February 2008. The MAA kit has also been approved in Germany, the United Kingdom, Austria, Belgium and Luxembourg. A third approval for DRAXIMAGE’s Sodium Iodide I-131 capsules was granted in reference member state, Denmark, in September 2007. The regulatory process for innovative products generally involves preclinical studies and clinical trials of each compound to establish its safety and efficacy, takes many years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. For generic products, the regulatory process does not typically involve clinical studies. Moreover, if regulatory approval of a drug or diagnostic product is granted, such approval may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which it may be marketed. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can, among other things, result in the suspension of our regulatory 3 approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Further, government policy may change and additional government regulations may be established that could prevent or delay regulatory approvals for our products. In addition, a marketed drug and its manufacturer are subject to continual review. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with the product or manufacturer may result in restrictions on such product or manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. On February 2, 2007, DRAXIMAGE announced it had submitted an Abbreviated New Drug Application (“ANDA”) to the FDA for its generic kit for the preparation of Tc-99m Sestamibi for injection (DRAXIMAGEÒ Sestamibi), a nuclear medicine imaging agent used in myocardial perfusion imaging (“MPI”) to evaluate blood flow to the heart in patients undergoing cardiac tests. On July 25, 2007, DRAXIMAGE announced it had filed DRAXIMAGEÒ Sestamibi with European regulatory authorities. The Company also filed an Abbreviated New Drug Submission (“A/NDS”) for DRAXIMAGEÒ Sestamibi on August 17, 2007 with Health Canada. On October 11, 2007, the Company was informed by Health Canada that this submission had been screened and found acceptable for review. We cannot predict if or when we will receive regulatory approvals to market this product. The final products in which active pharmaceutical ingredients are used are subject to regulation for safety and efficacy by the FDA, TPD and regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions, as the case may be. All of the final products that DRAXIMAGE or DRAXIS Pharma manufacture must be approved by the FDA, TPD and the regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions, as the case may be, before they can be commercially marketed. The process of obtaining regulatory clearance for marketing is uncertain, can be costly and time-consuming. We cannot predict how long the necessary regulatory approvals will take or whether we or our customers for whom we manufacture products will ever obtain such approval for products. To the extent that we and/or our customers do not obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for marketing new products, our product sales could be adversely affected. All products manufactured by us (including those manufactured for our contract manufacturing customers) have to comply with the current Good Manufacturing Practices (“cGMP”) imposed under the laws of the U.S., Canada and other jurisdictions, as well as the guidelines and policies of TPD, FDA and the regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions, as the case may be. In addition, products containing radioactive isotopes will have to comply with the guidelines and regulations of the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission in Canada and the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission and other similar regulations in other countries. Compliance with cGMP regulations requires us to expend time, money and effort on our production facilities and to maintain precise and extensive records and quality control to ensure that our products meet applicable specifications and other requirements. The FDA, TPD and other regulators may periodically inspect our drug manufacturing facilities to ensure compliance with applicable cGMP requirements. In 2007, the Company announced it had received a notification from the FDA that its manufacturing facilities continue to maintain their classification as acceptable facilities following an extensive inspection by the FDA in January 2007 of all six products and quality systems for the contract manufacturing division. There can be no assurance that subsequent inspections will have similar results. In addition, our customers also periodically inspect our manufacturing facilities to ascertain compliance with cGMP requirements. If we fail to comply with the cGMP requirements, we may become subject to possible regulatory action, and manufacturing at the facility could consequently be suspended, causing possible loss of profit, regulatory fines and third-party liability. To date we have not been subject to any notice of material non-compliance. The FDA, TPD or other regulatory authorities may also require us to submit specific batches or lots of a particular product for inspection. If the product lot fails to meet applicable requirements, then the following actions might be taken: (i) restrict the release of the product; (ii) suspend manufacturing of the specific product lot; (iii) order a recall of the product lot; or (iv) order a seizure of the product lot. 4 WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AND ENFORCE EFFECTIVE PATENTS TO PROTECT OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS FROM USE BY COMPETITORS, AND THE PATENTS OF OTHER PARTIES COULD REQUIRE US TO STOP USING OR TO ACQUIRE A LICENSE FOR CONDUCTING CERTAIN BUSINESS ACTIVITIES, AND OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION AND PROFITABILITY COULD SUFFER AS A RESULT. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain, enforce and maintain patent protection for our radiopharmaceutical technologies. Patents for our radiopharmaceutical technologies have expiry dates ranging from November 2008 to December 2020. We cannot assure you that patents will be issued from any of our pending applications or that claims now or in the future, if any, allowed under issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, we cannot assure you that any patents issued to or licensed by us will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or that the rights granted under these patents will provide continuing competitive advantages to us. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms, including ours, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. In addition, we do not know whether any of our current research endeavors will result in the issuance of patents in Canada, the United States or elsewhere, or if any patents already issued will provide significant proprietary protection or will be circumvented or invalidated. Since patent applications in the United States and Canada are maintained in secrecy for at least 18 months from the date of filing, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we will be the first to create inventions claimed by pending patent applications or that we will be the first to file patent applications for such inventions. Our failure to obtain patents for our products could negatively affect our competitive position. Our commercial success also depends in part on our not infringing patents or proprietary rights of others and not breaching the licenses granted to us. In the event that we are found to have infringed other parties’ patents, licenses may not be available to us on terms that are commercially favorable or at all. In addition, the degree of patent protection afforded to pharmaceutical or biotechnological inventions around the world is uncertain and varies significantly among different countries. We cannot assure you that we will be able to license third-party technology or patents that we may require to conduct our business or that such technology or patents can be licensed at a reasonable cost. Failure by us or our collaborators or customers to license any technology or patents that we may need to commercialize our technologies or manufacture our products may result in delays in marketing our products or may impede our inability to proceed with the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses. There can be no assurance that any of our products currently in development or our recently approved products will achieve market acceptance. We may be required to engage in litigation and other patent proceedings to enforce patents issued to us, to defend our right, title and interest in patents related to our products and to determine the scope and validity of other parties proprietary rights. These proceedings can be costly, and if the outcome of any such proceedings is adverse to us, we could lose the right to sell some of our products or could be required to pay damages, which may be substantial. We also rely on unpatented trade secrets, improvements and know-how with respect to our contract manufacturing operations and all of our operations associated with our radiopharmaceutical kit business to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our customers, collaborators, employees and consultants. These agreements could be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Further, our trade secrets could otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. ALTHOUGH WE CARRY PRODUCT LIABILITY INSURANCE, A SUCCESSFUL 5 LIABILITY CLAIM COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. We may be subject to liability claims by those who purchase our contract manufacturing services, for the use of any of our products under clinical development and the sale and use of any of our approved products. Such claims may be made directly by customers, consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling such products. Although we believe that our insurance coverage is reasonably adequate to insulate us from potential product liability claims and we have not historically experienced any problems associated with claims by those who purchase our contract manufacturing services or users of our products under clinical development or the radiopharmaceutical products that we manufacture, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to this potential liability. We may not be able to maintain or obtain additional commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any of our products approved for marketing and sale. Even unsuccessful product liability claims could result in the expenditure of funds in litigation and the diversion of management time and resources and could damage our reputation and impair the marketability of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. On July 22, 2005, we announced that, together with other defendants, we had received a Statement of Claim filed before the Superior Court of Justice of Ontario alleging that PermaxÒ, a drug that we distributed in Canada for a third party manufacturer prior to July 2003, causes “compulsive/obsessive behaviour, including pathological gambling”. The plaintiff is seeking to have this action certified as a class action. We believe this claim against us is without merit and we intend to vigorously defend this proceeding and any motion for certification. Prior to July 2003, PermaxÒ was distributed in Canada by DRAXIS Pharmaceutica, our Canadian pharmaceutical sales and marketing division. In July 2003, we sold the DRAXIS Pharmaceutica division to Shire BioChem Inc. (“Shire”). On February 29, 2008, the plaintiff served an Amended Statement of Claim and a Motion Record in support of the plaintiff’s motion for certification of this action as a class proceeding. The defendants must file a response to plaintiff’s motion for certification by July 31, 2008. IF THE MARKET DOES NOT ACCEPT OUR PRODUCTS CURRENTLY IN DEVELOPMENT OR AWAITING APPROVAL, OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED. There can be no assurance that any of our products currently in development, or those awaiting approval or our recently approved products will achieve market acceptance. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including the receipt of regulatory approvals (generic and innovative products), the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the clinical efficacy and safety of our products (innovative products), the establishment and demonstration of their potential advantages to existing and new diagnostic and treatment methods and the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers and, most importantly, the launching of competing products by our competitors that become established prior to the launch of our products in development. There can be no assurance that physicians, patients, payers or the medical community in general will accept and utilize any of our existing or future products. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new products enter the market, as we enter new markets with generic and potentially proprietary products and advanced technologies become available. There can be no assurance that existing products or new products developed by our competitors will not be more effective, or be more effectively marketed and sold, than any of the products that may be developed, manufactured or sold by us. Competitive products may render our products obsolete and uncompetitive prior to recovering our research, development or commercialization expenses incurred with respect to any such products. 6 We may lose market exclusivity for one or more of our proprietary products due to generic challenges. This is because the introduction of a generic version of the same or similar products typically results in a significant reduction in net sales for the relevant product, given that generic manufacturers typically offer their versions of the same product at sharply lower prices. For example, in a press release dated November 1, 2007, we announced that the Company was ceasing all further activities related to its product INFECTONÒ and redeploying its development teams to other projects following the results of additional formulations for the product which indicated that sufficient specifity and sensitivity could be achieved in a cost effective manner which would be commercially important. In another press release dated March 27, 2006, we announced that although our product FIBRIMAGEÒ had met primary end points in its Phase III clinical trial in Canada, further market analysis had shown that new technologies had successfully captured the current deep venous thrombosis indications and there was no longer an economically interesting market opportunity at this time in either the at-risk asymptomatic patient, or those with symptoms. We further indicated that we had decided that no significant further work would be conducted in the development of this product for its current indications but that other potential opportunities for this product would be explored. In 2006 and 2007, no other potential opportunities were uncovered. We believe that AZEDRAÔ, being developed by Molecular Insight Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“MIPI”) may compete with our DRAXIMAGEÒ I-131 MIBG product under clinical development. AZEDRAÔ has received Orphan Drug status and a Fast Track designation by the FDA. According to information set forth in its website, MIPI is conducting a Phase I dosimetry study with AZEDRAÔ in adults at Duke University. The initial target market for AZEDRAÔ dosimetry study is the treatment of metastatic neuroendocrine tumours such as pheochromocytoma, carcinoid and neuroblastoma that are not amenable to treatment with surgery or conventional chemotherapy. Metastatic tumours are tumours that spread to other organs or parts of the body. Additionally, according to information set forth in its website, MIPI initiated a Phase I/II study dose-finding and therapeutic evaluation of the product in patients with malignant Pheochromocytoma/Paraganglioma, which completion is expected for July 2012. The primary objectives of this study are to determine the maximum tolerated dose of the product and then, to determine the objective tumor response rate nine months following treatment. On February 27, 2008, Covidien announced it had received tentative approval from the FDA for its generic Sestamibi. This product will compete with our DRAXIMAGEÒ Sestamibi product for which we filed an ANDA with the FDA in February 2007 and for which we have not yet received an approval. Failure to receive this approval could have a material negative impact on the expected future results of our operations. WE DO NOT HAVE THE SAME AMOUNT OF RESOURCES AS SOME OF OUR COMPETITORS. Many of our existing or potential competitors, particularly large pharmaceutical companies, have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do. In addition, many of these competitors have significantly greater experience in undertaking research, preclinical studies and human clinical trials of new pharmaceutical products, including innovative and generic products, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing such products. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in commercializing or manufacturing products more rapidly or effectively than we can. WE OPERATE IN A VERY COMPETITIVE MARKET. DRAXIS Pharma, our contract manufacturing division, competes with pharmaceutical companies that have in-house manufacturing capabilities as well as with third-party contract manufacturers, 7 including Hospira Inc., Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Catalent Pharma Solutions Inc., DPT Laboratories Ltd, Haupt Pharma AG, Patheon Inc., Hollister-Stier Laboratories LLC and DSM Pharmaceuticals, Inc. DRAXIMAGE, our radiopharmaceuticals division, competes with the following companies that have significant radiopharmaceutical operations: Lantheus Medical Imaging (formerly Bristol-Myers Squibb Imaging), GE Healthcare, Covidien, CISbio, and Bracco S.p.A. In addition, there are a number of companies that are developing and/or marketing other radiopharmaceutical products, including MDS Nordion Inc., Immunomedics Inc., IBA Molecular, Cytogen Corporation, International Isotopes Inc. and Molecular Insight Pharmaceuticals, Inc. FAILURE OF ONE OF OUR CURRENT OR FUTURE CLINICAL TRIALS COULD HAVE A MATERIALLY NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR FUTURE PROSPECTS. The development of new products is subject to a number of significant risks. Potential products that appear to be promising in various stages of development may not reach the market for a number of reasons. Such reasons include, but are not limited to, the possibility that the potential product will be found ineffective or unduly toxic during preclinical or clinical trials, fails to receive necessary regulatory approvals, will be difficult to manufacture on a large scale, will be uneconomical to market or not achieve market acceptance, will not qualify for third-party reimbursement, or will be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties. Certain products we are attempting to develop have never been manufactured on a commercial scale, and there can be no assurance that such products can be manufactured at a cost or in a quantity to render such products commercially viable. Production of such products may require the development of new manufacturing technologies and expertise. The impact on our business in the event that new manufacturing technologies and expertise would have to be developed is uncertain. Many of our potential products will require significant additional research and development efforts and significant additional preclinical and clinical testing prior to any commercial use. We cannot assure you that we will successfully meet any of these technological challenges or others that may arise in the course of product development. The research and development process of a new pharmaceutical product can take up to ten years or longer, from discovery to commercial product launch. New products do not only need to undergo intensive pre-clinical and clinical testing, but must also pass a highly complex, lengthy and expensive approval process. During each stage of the process, there is a substantial risk that we will encounter serious obstacles or will not achieve our goals and accordingly we may abandon a product in which we have invested substantial amounts of time and money. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any innovative product under development, we must demonstrate through preclinical studies and clinical trials that the product is safe and efficacious. In November 2006, we announced that DRAXIMAGE had received approval from the FDA to run two clinical trials using radioactive Iobenguane I-131 Injection (also known as I-131 Metaiodobenzylguanidine or I-131 MIBG) to treat high-risk neuroblastoma, a rare form of cancer that affects mostly infants and young children, one trial is a Phase II study and another is a Phase I study. Both trials are ongoing. The results of preclinical studies and early-stage clinical trials may not be totally predictive of results obtained in larger late-stage clinical trials, and there can be no assurance that our clinical trials will demonstrate safety and efficacy, achieve regulatory approvals or result in marketable products. A number of companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier clinical trials. OUR PROFITABILITY DEPENDS IN PART ON REIMBURSEMENT POLICIES AND REGULATIONS OF GOVERNMENT HEALTH ADMINISTRATION AUTHORITIES, PRIVATE 8 HEALTH INSURERS AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS. The business and financial condition of pharmaceutical companies will continue to be affected by the efforts of governments and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare through various means. For example, in certain markets, pricing or profitability of pharmaceutical products, medical devices and diagnostic products is subject to government control. In Canada, the Patented Medicine Prices Review Board (“PMPRB”) monitors and controls prices of patented drug products marketed in Canada. The PMPRB may assert jurisdiction over our products under development which may limit the prices that can be charged for such products in Canada. We may not be able to obtain prices for our products under development that will make them commercially viable exclusively in Canada. In the United States there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar pricing controls by government. In addition, the emphasis on managed healthcare in the United States has increased and will continue to increase the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing. While we cannot predict whether such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted or the effects such proposals or managed healthcare efforts may have on our business, the announcement of such proposals or efforts could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our securities and, if adopted, on our business and financial condition and that of our current and prospective customers. Accordingly, our ability to establish strategic alliances may be adversely affected. In addition, in Canada, the United States and elsewhere, sales of prescription pharmaceutical products and radiopharmaceutical products are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third-party payers, such as government and private insurance plans. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. To the extent we succeed in bringing new products to market, we cannot assure you that these products will be considered cost-effective and that reimbursement to consumers will be available or will be sufficient to allow the sale of these products on a competitive basis. Risks Related to our Company WE ARE EXPOSED TO EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS WHICH COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. A substantial portion of our consolidated revenues are now, and are expected to continue to be, realized in U.S. dollars. Our operating expenses are primarily paid in Canadian dollars. We may be adversely affected by a significant and rapid strengthening of the Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar, should the Canadian dollar rise in value compared to the U.S. dollar by more than 10 cents. We do not currently use derivative instruments to hedge our foreign exchange risk and currently have no plans to do so in the near future. For fiscal year 2007, U.S. dollar revenue accounted for approximately 51% of the Company’s consolidated revenue. During this same period, the value of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar strengthened by 18% from January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2007. As a result, in 2007 we had to charge to income $1.7 million of foreign exchange loss related to the strengthening of the Canadian dollar. OUR MANUFACTURING FACILITIES ARE CURRENTLY LOCATED IN THE SAME LOCATION AND FACTORS BEYOND OUR CONTROL COULD CAUSE AN INTERRUPTION IN OUR MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS, WHICH WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR REPUTATION IN THE MARKETPLACE AND OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our manufacturing facilities are currently located in the same location in Kirkland, Québec. To succeed, we must be able to operate our manufacturing facilities without significant interruption and deliver radiopharmaceutical and contract manufacturing products in a timely manner. We could suffer an interruption in our manufacturing operations caused by damage from a variety of sources, many of which 9 are not within our control, including fire, flood, earthquake and other natural disasters; power loss and telecommunication failure; disruption to transportation systems; major equipment or machinery failure; software and hardware errors, failures or crashes and similar disruptions; or undue delays or restrictions with air transport systems and cross-border shipments. Any significant interruptions in our manufacturing operations or our ability to receive key raw materials or components or to deliver time-sensitive products would damage our reputation in the marketplace and have a negative impact on our results of operations. For example, our radiopharmaceutical revenues were adversely impacted by lower demand related to an industry shortage of radioactive medical isotopes in the fourth quarter of 2007. This was related to an extended shutdown at one of the largest global suppliers of radioactive isotopes late in 2007. While the Company has an alternative approved source of supply for its radioactive isotopes, the shutdown affects the ability of radiopharmacies to carryout procedures resulting in lower demand. In addition, during the third quarter of 2005, DRAXIS Pharma, our contract manufacturing operating division, extended its regularly scheduled summer shutdown period at the beginning of the third quarter in the sterile area of our manufacturing facilities, in order to correct an electrical panel failure and make associated repairs. The revalidation of the entire sterile area following these repairs and the related recalibration of production schedules due to this interruption had material financial implications which negatively affected third and fourth quarter 2005 results. As a further example, if there were a cessation of flights leaving Canada for the U.S., then the radiopharmaceutical products manufactured by DRAXIMAGE, which are delivered in part via airplanes, could not be delivered to customers on a timely basis and our products would be harmed due to their short shelf-life. Also, if there were a prolonged loss of hydroelectric power at our sole manufacturing facilities, then the manufacturing of our products may be impaired because we may not have sufficient back-up electrical power from our independent generators for the duration of the hydroelectric interruption. Although we believe that we carry adequate property and business interruption insurance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain such insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against all potential eventualities. In addition, because our products are intended to promote the health of patients, any supply disruption could lead to allegations that the public health, or the health of individuals, has been endangered and could subject us to lawsuits. IF OUR COLLABORATIVE AND COMMERCIAL RELATIONSHIPS WITH THIRD PARTIES ON WHOM WE RELY ARE UNSUCCESSFUL, OUR BUSINESS MAY SUFFER. To be successful, we must continually establish and maintain strategic or key relationships with other companies or organizations in a number of biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry segments. This is critical to our success because such relationships enable us to extend the reach of our products and sales in various jurisdictions, generate additional revenue and develop and deploy new products in various marketplaces. Entering into strategic relationships is complicated, as some of our current and future strategic partners may decide to compete with us in some or all of the markets in which we operate or refuse to fulfill or honor their contractual obligations to us. In addition, our relationships with customers always require us to manufacture products in accordance with their specifications that are provided to us from time to time. If we are unable to meet our customers’ specifications, our strategic relationships would be harmed. We currently have strategic relationships with our four largest customers (i) GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (“GSK”) to supply it with established sterile products marketed by GSK in multiple international markets and a prescription sterile injectable product for the U.S. market, (ii) Genzyme Corporation (“Genzyme”) to manufacture Hectorol® Injection, (iii) Johnson & Johnson Consumer Companies, Inc. (“JJC”) to manufacture a broad portfolio of multiple non sterile specialty semi-solid products currently marketed in the United States, as well as Johnson & Johnson, Inc. (prior to December 20, 2006, Pfizer Consumer Healthcare, a division of Pfizer Canada, Inc.), that covers several non-prescription products for 10 the Canadian market including Polysporin®, Sudafed® and Actifed®, and (iv) Cardinal Health 414, LLC with respect to our Iodine I-131 kits, MAA, DTPA and MDP products sold in the U.S. During the third quarter of 2007, the Company announced it had expanded its existing contract manufacturing relationship with JJC and entered into a new definitive supply agreement to manufacture a broad portfolio of multiple non-sterile specialty semi-solid products currently marketed in the United States. This new multi-year contract runs to the end of 2013 and may be extended beyond that date. It includes approximately two years of manufacturing site transfer and process validation activities followed by five years of commercial production, that is scheduled to begin in 2009. We expect commercial production to generate incremental revenues in excess of $120 million over the five year period of 2009 through 2013. The transfer of equipment and production technologies, currently in progress, is expected to generate additional cumulative revenues during 2007 and 2008 of approximately $6 million to $8 million. In 2007, revenues of $2.6 million were generated from this contract. On December 20, 2007, DRAXIS announced that DRAXIMAGE, its radiopharmaceutical division, appointed GE Healthcare, an industry leader in nuclear medicine, as the exclusive distributor of DRAXIMAGE® Sestamibi in the United States. DRAXIMAGE® Sestamibi is a generic kit for the preparation of Technetium (Tc-99m) Sestamibi injection, a diagnostic cardiac imaging agent used in myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) to evaluate blood flow to the heart. A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR BUSINESS IS DEPENDENT ON A SMALL NUMBER OF KEY CUSTOMERS. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our four largest customers, GlaxoSmithKline, Genzyme Corporation, Johnson & Johnson Inc. (which includes JJC) and Cardinal Health 414, LLC, represented 55% of our consolidated revenues (19%, 15%, 11% and 10% respectively). The termination by any of these customers of its relationship with us would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations unless we could replace these customers in a timely fashion. Moreover, we are exposed to a concentration of credit risk as a result of this concentration among our customers. Should one or more of our key customers experience financial difficulties, the effect would be substantially greater than it would have been the case in the past. Each of these factors could have a material negative impact on our results of operations. IF OUR COLLABORATORS, EMPLOYEES, OR CONSULTANTS DISCLOSE OUR CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION TO OTHERS DESPITE CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS IN PLACE, OUR BUSINESS MAY SUFFER. Our practice is to require our key employees, collaborators, consultants and outside scientific advisors to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment or consulting relationships. These agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual’s relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties, subject to certain specific limited exceptions. In the case of employees, the agreements provide that all inventions conceived by the individual shall be our exclusive property. These agreements, however, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. For example, trade secrets regarding the recipe to manufacture our radiopharmaceutical kits or capsule products could be disclosed, allowing our competitors to copy the recipe and manufacture a competing product. WE ARE SUBJECT TO REGULATION BY GOVERNMENTS IN MANY JURISDICTIONS AND, IF WE DO NOT COMPLY WITH MANUFACTURING, NUCLEAR SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS, OUR EXISTING AND FUTURE OPERATIONS MAY BE CURTAILED, AND WE COULD BE SUBJECT TO LIABILITY. 11 Pharmaceutical drug manufacturing is a highly regulated industry, requiring significant documentation and validation of manufacturing processes and quality control assurance prior to approval of the facility to manufacture a specific drug. There can be considerable transition time between the initiation of a contract to manufacture a product and the actual initiation of the manufacturing of that product. Any lag time in the initiation of a contract to manufacture a product and the actual initiation of the manufacturing at our facilities could cause us to lose profits. We have in place facilities and procedures designed to reduce and, to the extent possible, eliminate the risk of environmental contamination resulting from the processing of raw materials and, more specifically, from the radiopharmaceutical business of DRAXIMAGE and the contract manufacturing business of DRAXIS Pharma. We also have in place regular maintenance programs to ensure continued compliance with all applicable health and safety, environmental and nuclear safety regulations. We believe that the operations at our manufacturing facilities comply in all material respects with applicable health and safety, environmental and nuclear safety laws. Canadian and U.S. federal, state, local and provincial regulations govern extensively the use, manufacture, storage, handling, transport and disposal of hazardous material and associated waste products. Although we believe that the operations at our facilities comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of substantial environmental liabilities especially in respect of environmental contamination resulting from the processing of raw materials from the radiopharmaceutical business of DRAXIMAGE and the manufacturing business of DRAXIS Pharma. Any failure by us or any of our subsidiaries to comply with such present or future laws and regulations could result in any of the following: (i) cessation of portions or all of our or our subsidiaries’ operations; (ii) imposition of fines; (iii) restrictions on our or our subsidiaries’ ability to carry on or expand our operations; (iv) significant expenditures by us in order to comply with laws and regulations; or (v) liabilities in excess of our resources. As of December 31, 2007, we have not received any notice stating that we are not in compliance with any such legislation applicable to us. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED IF THERE WERE A DISPUTE OR DISRUPTION WITH OUR UNIONIZED EMPLOYEES. The products manufactured by DRAXIS Pharma represent a significant amount of our consolidated revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2007, 69.7% of our consolidated revenues were derived from DRAXIS Pharma. Although a collective agreement with a five-year term to April 30, 2008 between DRAXIS Pharma and the United Food & Commercial Workers International Union, Local 291 (AFL-CIO) was ratified in February 2004, we cannot assure you that labour difficulties will not arise, and if they did arise then the production and delivery of those products manufactured by DRAXIS Pharma would be impaired for the duration of those labor difficulties. Those products manufactured by DRAXIMAGE may also be impaired if access to our sole manufacturing facilities is hindered by these labor difficulties. The present collective agreement terminates on April 30, 2008. We are presently preparing to negotiate a new collective agreement with the union and cannot assure you that we will negotiate the same terms as the existing agreement. OUR FUTURE SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO GROW, AND IF WE ARE UNABLE TO MANAGE OUR GROWTH EFFECTIVELY, WE MAY INCUR UNEXPECTED EXPENSES AND BE UNABLE TO MEET OUR CUSTOMERS’ REQUIREMENTS. We will need to maintain, expand and upgrade our manufacturing facilities and operations to execute current commercial obligations to customers, widen our customer base and increase manufacturing efficiencies over the next few years. We cannot be certain that DRAXIS Pharma will be able to enter into enough lucrative third-party manufacturing contracts to increase its profitability. If we 12 do secure advantageous agreements, we cannot be certain that our employees, systems, procedures, controls, productive capacity and existing space will be adequate to support expansion of the operations. Our future operating results will depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to manage changing business conditions and to implement and improve our technical, administrative, financial control and reporting systems and operational excellence in order to achieve established business objectives. An unexpectedly large increase in the volume of manufacturing business or the number of orders placed by customers may require us to expand capacity and further upgrade our manufacturing facilities and the technology related to our manufacturing. We may not be able to project the rate of timing of such increases or customer demands accurately or to expand and upgrade our manufacturing facilities and supporting systems and infrastructure to accommodate such increases. Difficulties in managing future growth and meeting customers’ expanded requirements could have a significant negative impact on our business and its profitability. IF OUR INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING ARE FOUND NOT TO BE EFFECTIVE OR IF WE MAKE DISCLOSURE OF EXISTING OR POTENTIAL SIGNIFICANT DEFICIENCIES OR MATERIAL WEAKNESSES IN THOSE CONTROLS, INVESTORS COULD LOSE CONFIDENCE IN OUR FINANCIAL REPORTS, AND OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Beginning with this Annual Report (Form 20-F) for the year ending December 31, 2007, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to include a report of management on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting with our Annual Report (Form 20-F). That report must include management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the fiscal year. Additionally, beginning with our Annual Report for the year ending December 31, 2007, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to issue a report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. This Annual Report (Form 20-F) includes a report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting from our independent registered public accountants as of December 31, 2007. We continue to evaluate our existing internal controls over financial reporting according to the standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”). During the course of our ongoing evaluation of the internal controls, we may identify areas requiring improvement, and may have to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. Despite the existence of material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting, we may fail to identify them. Remedying any deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we and/or our independent registered public accounting firm are able to identify, may require us to incur significant costs and expend significant time and management resources. Further, any of the measures we implement to remedy any such deficiencies may not effectively mitigate or remedy such deficiencies. Any failure to remedy the deficiencies identified by management, any failure to implement required new or improved controls and the discovery of unidentified deficiencies could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, subject us to increased risk of errors and fraud related to our financial statements or result in material misstatements in, and untimely filing of, our financial statements. The existence of a material weakness could also cause a restatement of future presented financial statements. Investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, and our stock price may be adversely affected, if our internal controls over financial reporting are found not to be effective by management or by an independent registered public accounting firm, or if we make disclosure of existing or potential significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in those controls. OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE, AND OUR FUTURE REVENUE AND 13 PROFITABILITY ARE UNCERTAIN. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability in the foreseeable future depends on the commercial success of our products and services. Because we have recently launched new products in new markets such as our SMART-FILLÔ Capsule Filler which was launched in the U.S. in August 2007, revenues are difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from period to period. In addition, product development programs will require substantial additional investment, including the cost of clinical trials for innovative products (such as the costs of our clinical trials for DRAXIMAGEÒ I-131 MIBG) and obtaining regulatory approvals for the sale of our products such as DRAXIMAGEÒ Sestamibi for which we filed an ANDA with the FDA in February 2007, a submission to European authorities in July 2007 and an A/NDS in Canada in August 2007. Our sole manufacturing facilities will continue to require capital investment in order to maintain, upgrade and expand their operations. The success of DRAXIMAGE and DRAXIS Pharma will rely significantly on the ability of both divisions to maintain and to substantially increase their manufacturing capabilities to satisfy customer demand. There can be no assurance that, or when, we will successfully develop, receive regulatory approvals for, or manufacture or market any new products for our own marketing purposes or for third parties. DRAXIS Pharma may fail to renew its existing manufacturing contracts or may fail to secure sufficiently lucrative new third-party manufacturing contracts to increase its profitability. For example, revenues for DRAXIMAGE were impacted in the fourth quarter of 2007 by lower demand related to an industry shortage of radioactive medical isotopes. This was related to an extended shutdown at one of the largest global suppliers of radioactive isotopes late in 2007. While DRAXIMAGE has an alternative FDA approved source of supply of its radioactive isotopes, the shutdown affected the ability of radiopharmacies to carryout procedures resulting in lower demand. In addition, DRAXIS Pharma may lose anticipated volumes of products if the customers for whom it manufactures said products do not receive required approvals for the commercial sale of same. DRAXIS Pharma may also lose anticipated volumes of existing products if its customers lose market share for products due to decreased demand for said products. DRAXIMAGE may fail to increase its market penetration of its radioactive products, particularly in the U.S. DRAXIMAGE may also fail to increase its international sales of its key Tc-99m kits and Iodine I-131 products, particularly in Europe, if it does not receive approvals to market said products or if it is not able to capture a significant market share for those products once they are approved. DRAXIMAGE may not receive timely regulatory approval of its DRAXIMAGEÒ Sestamibi product. The research, development, production and marketing of new products like MOLY-FILLÔ (our Technetium Tc-99m Generator) or DRAXIMAGEÒ I-131 MIBG will require the application of considerable technical and financial resources by us and our customers, while revenues that are generated by such products, if approved and successfully developed and marketed, may not be realized for several years. We may not be able to sustain current and planned levels of profitability. We may require external financing to complete certain aspects of our three-year strategic plan, and external sources of capital may not be available to us at an acceptable cost, if at all. IF WE CANNOT ADAPT TO CHANGING TECHNOLOGIES, OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES MAY BECOME OBSOLETE AND OUR BUSINESS COULD SUFFER. Because the biotechnology, pharmaceutical and radiopharmaceutical industry is characterized by technology change and obsolescence, we may be unable to anticipate changes in our current and potential customer requirements that could make our existing technology obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to enhance our existing products and services, develop new technology that addresses the increasing sophistication and varied needs of our respective customers, license leading technologies and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a timely and cost-effective basis. The development of our proprietary technology and investing in certain niche markets entails significant technical, financial and business risks. We may not be successful in 14 using our new technologies or exploiting our niche markets effectively or adapting our businesses to evolving customer requirements or emerging industry standards. DRAXIMAGE has also identified additional new product opportunities in the area of non-radioactive contrast media that are used in the medical imaging field and is pursuing potential product development strategies to leverage both its position in the marketplace and its preferred access to appropriate production process expertise. Contrast media products are injectable liquids produced in highly-specialized cGMP sterile production facilities, such as those in place at DRAXIS’ facilities which are currently used to produce certain diagnostic imaging products marketed by DRAXIMAGE. The North American market for contrast media has been estimated to be valued at approximately $1.6 billion and we believe that is growing driven largely by the continued growth of computer tomography (“CT”) and enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (“MRI”) procedures. AN INABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN QUALIFIED PERSONNEL COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS Our success depends upon skilled personnel in key parts of the Company. The loss of the service of key members of the Company, particularly principal members of our management team, may delay or prevent achievement of major business objectives. We have employment agreements with all principal members of our management team with no fixed duration. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous pharmaceutical companies, universities, governmental entities and other research institutions. As a result, we may be unable to attract and retain qualified individuals in sufficient numbers, which would have a material negative impact on our results of operations. ALTHOUGH WE CONSIDER THE COMPANY TO HAVE GOOD DEFENSES TO SUCH ACTIONS, SHOULD THE CURRENT LAWSUITS AGAINST US SUCCEED, WE COULD INCUR A SUBSTANTIAL LOSS. In 1998, a Canadian legal proceeding was launched against us and our subsidiary DAHI by a former consultant, Jozsef Knoll, claiming royalty entitlements based on the net profit from sales of ANIPRYL® (the “Knoll proceeding”). Total damages claimed are $100 million, including a claim to certain shares of DAHI. However, the plaintiff has taken no steps in the last eight years to move the claim forward. While we believe that we have good defenses to the Knoll proceeding, this dispute may not be resolved in our favor, if it is pursued. It is possible that a court or arbitration tribunal may find us to be in breach of certain agreements, or infringing validly issued patents of third parties or practicing the intellectual property of others. In that event, in addition to the cost of defending the underlying proceeding, we may have to pay license fees, additional royalties and/or damages and may be ordered to assign certain ANIPRYL®-related patents and be prohibited from conducting certain activities. Under such circumstances, we could incur substantial loss and our business could be negatively affected. On July 22, 2005, we announced that, together with other defendants, we had received a Statement of Claim filed before the Superior Court of Justice of Ontario alleging that PermaxÒ, a drug that we distributed in Canada for a third party manufacturer prior to July 2003, causes “compulsive/obsessive behaviour, including pathological gambling”. The plaintiff is seeking to have this action certified as a class action. We believe this claim against us is without merit and we intend to vigorously defend this proceeding and any motion for certification. Prior to July 2003, PermaxÒ was distributed in Canada by DRAXIS Pharmaceutica, our Canadian pharmaceutical sales and marketing division. In July 2003, we sold the DRAXIS Pharmaceutica division to Shire. On February 29, 2008, the plaintiff served an Amended Statement of Claim and a Motion Record in support of the plaintiff’s motion for certification of this action as a class proceeding. The defendants must file a response to plaintiff’s motion for certification by July 31, 2008. 15 Risks Related to our Common Shares OUR COMMON SHARE PRICE HAS BEEN, AND IS LIKELY TO CONTINUE TO BE, VOLATILE. The market prices for the securities of smaller pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including ours, have historically been volatile, and the market has, from time to time, experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. For the last two fiscal years, the price of our stock has ranged from a low of $3.27, to a high of $6.64 on NASDAQ (CDN$3.29 to CDN$7.59 on the Toronto Stock Exchange). We believe that in the first half of 2007 the increase in the share price and volumes of shares traded was impacted by positive financial results that differed from market expectations as well as an increased recognition of the potential future value of the products in our R&D pipeline, particularly products under development at DRAXIMAGE. We believe that the reduction of the share price and volumes of shares trading in the second half of 2007 occurred as a result of significant declines in financial performance that were well below market expectations and that caused the Company to twice reduce its earnings guidance during this period. We believe that in the first half of 2006 the volatility in the share price and volumes of shares traded was impacted by financial results that differed from market expectations as a continuing result of the extended shutdown in 2005 of production of sterile products at DRAXIS Pharma. We believe that the appreciation of the share price and volumes of shares trading in the second half of 2006 occurred as a result of improved financial results that came closer to market expectations and a growing recognition of the potential value of new products in development. Factors such as fluctuations in our operating results, announcements of competing technological innovations or new products by our competitors, clinical trial results, governmental regulation and enforcement actions, developments in patent or other proprietary rights, public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us or others and general market conditions can have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares. In particular, the realization of any of the risks described herein could have a material adverse impact on such market price. Unusual sales of substantial amounts of our shares in the public market over a relatively short time period, or the perception that such sales will occur, could also adversely affect the market price of our shares and make it more difficult in the future for us to raise funds through equity offerings. 