ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or which are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our continued growth depends, at least in part, on our ability to form relationships with funeral directors, cemeteries and other death care providers. Our ability to continue to grow our retail business depends in part on our ability to develop referral relationships with funeral homes, cemeteries and other death care professionals. We cannot assure you we will be able to successfully form these relationships in all of the areas in which we have retail businesses. In certain areas, we may be unable to form such relationships where our stores are in direct competition with funeral homes and cemeteries that sell granite memorials. The growth and profitability of our retail operations depends, at least in part, on our ability to successfully execute staff productivity improvements, sales and marketing initiatives, and new product programs. Our ability to grow our retail business and improve retail profits depends in part on our ability to successfully execute store level staffing plans that will allow us to operate more efficiently and with a smaller managerial staff. In addition, our ability to grow our retail operations depends in part on the successful execution of recently implemented sales and marketing programs, including the branding program and certain new product introductions. Our failure to execute these plans and programs may adversely affect our ability to grow revenues and profits, and adversely affect our business and financial results. Our credit facility with CIT includes covenants that impose restrictions on our financial and business operations and financial tests that we must meet in order to continue to borrow under the facility. The terms of our credit facility with CIT restrict our ability to, among other things, consummate asset sales, participate in mergers, incur additional debt, pay dividends, repurchase stock or make investments or guarantees. The terms also contain covenants that require us to meet financial tests, including a minimum Operating Cash Flow to Debt Service Ratio and a maximum Total Liabilities to Net Worth Ratio, in order to continue to borrow under the facility and avoid a default that might lead to an early termination of the facility. The terms of this credit facility, including these covenants, are generally described in Item 7 of this report under the caption "Liquidity and Capital Resources-Capital Resources-CIT Credit Facility. 7 As described under such caption, for the period ended October 1, 2005, we were in violation of the Minimum Operating Cash Flow to Debt Service Coverage Ratio covenant levels primarily as a result of poor operating results for the second quarter and the first half of the year. We received a waiver allowing us to be in compliance with our credit facility at October 1, 2005 and our lenders agreed to adjust the required covenant levels for the balance of 2005 and 2006. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to maintain compliance with this or other covenants in our loan facility. Moreover, if we fail to maintain compliance with such covenants we cannot provide assurances that we will continue to receive waivers of any non-compliance. If we are unable to comply with the financial or other covenants of our loan facility as recently amended, we will likely be unable to borrow additional amounts under the facility and amounts under the facility could be accelerated and become due and payable immediately, which would seriously adversely affect our liquidity and our business operations and financial condition. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with independent retailers, our sales may not continue to grow and could decline. We have historically sold our granite memorials to consumers through independent retailers. Since we entered the retail business in 1997, we have acquired retailers with multiple retail outlets and have opened new stores in 17 states. However, we are still dependent in part on our independent retailers for the successful distribution of our products to the ultimate customer. We have no control over the independent retailers' operations, including such matters as retail price, advertising and marketing. Three important components of our growth strategy are to pursue strategic alliances with funeral homes, cemeteries and other death care professionals, selectively acquire retailers, and open new retail stores in selected markets. Although we have taken steps to reduce conflicts between our owned retail stores and our independent retailers, the implementation of these elements of our strategy has in the past been, and may in the future be, construed by some of our existing independent retailers as an effort to compete with them. In certain cases, this has adversely affected their relationship with us and caused them to decrease or cease their purchases of our products. These issues may continue to arise as we pursue our growth strategy. In addition, significant barriers to entry created by local heritage, community presence and tradition characterize the granite memorial retail industry. Consequently, we have experienced and may continue to experience difficulty replacing retailers or entering particular retail markets in the event of a loss of an independent retailer. We cannot assure you we will be able to maintain our existing relationships or establish new relationships with independent retailers. Disruption in our relationships with independent retailers could impede our sales growth or cause sales to decline, which would adversely affect our business and financial results. Opening new stores is a component of our growth strategy and entails uncertainties and risks that could adversely affect our profitability. Our ability to continue to grow our retail business will depend in part upon our ability to open new retail stores in selected locations. Our success in opening new retail stores will depend on our ability to identify suitable locations for opening new retail stores on acceptable terms, attract and retain competent management and sales personnel, form strategic alliances and relationships with local funeral homes, cemeteries and other death care professionals, and attract customers to our new stores. In addition, as noted above, there are significant barriers to entry in most markets created by local heritage, community presence and tradition which may favor existing retailers. It is unlikely new retail stores we open will generate significant profits in the early stages, and many new stores will lose money for the first few years of operation. Accordingly, opening new retail stores may adversely affect our business or profitability. Our international operations may expose us to a number of risks related to conducting business in foreign countries. We derived approximately 28% of total revenues in fiscal 2005 from sales to customers outside the United States, including approximately 13% from sales in Canada by our Canadian subsidiary. Foreign sales are subject to numerous risks, including currency conversion risks, limitations (including taxes) on the repatriation of earnings, slower and more difficult accounts receivable collection and greater complication and expense in complying with foreign laws. Our sales of granite blocks to foreign countries are primarily for building use and are subject to various cyclical factors in foreign countries, foreign exchange rates, policies of foreign governments and numerous other factors over which we have no control. In 2005, our sales of granite blocks into China declined significantly as a result of economic conditions in China. While we have seen some signs of recovery in our Chinese markets and we are taking steps to develop sales to customers in other countries, we cannot assure you that sales of granite blocks to our Chinese and other Asian customers will recover to historic levels. As previously disclosed, we own a 1/3 equity interest in VIKA, Ltd., a Ukrainian closed joint stock company that owns the right to quarry certain stone known as "Galactic Blue" on certain property located in Zhytomir, Ukraine. We also acquired the worldwide right to distribute Galactic Blue. Historically, political and governmental instability has been a feature in Ukraine, and the political and regulatory climate is subject to rapid change. Our investment in VIKA is subject to risks inherent in international operations, including adverse governmental actions, political risks, expropriation of assets and the risk of civil unrest and war. As the political and regulatory environment changes, we may face uncertainty about the interpretation of the agreements to which we are party and, in the event of dispute, we may have limited recourse within the legal and political system. 8 Employees' strikes and other labor-related disruptions may adversely affect our operations. Our business is labor intensive, and our workforce includes, among other employees, highly skilled quarrying and manufacturing personnel such as stone cutters, sand blasters, sculptors and other skilled artisans. Approximately 37% of our workforce is unionized. Strikes or labor disputes with our unionized employees may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Our collective bargaining agreements with the Granite Cutters Association and the United Steelworkers of America, which together represent approximately 169 employees in our Vermont manufacturing and quarrying operations, expire on April 28, 2006. Preliminary negotiations on a new collective bargaining agreement are currently ongoing. If we are unable to reach agreement with any of our unionized work groups in future negotiations regarding the terms of their collective bargaining agreement, or if additional segments of our workforce become unionized, we could be subject to work interruptions or stoppages in 2006 which could adversely affect our operations and our business. If we lose our key personnel, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, our business could suffer. Our operations and the implementation of our operating and growth strategies, such as integration of acquisitions and the opening of new retail stores, are management intensive. We are substantially dependent upon the abilities and continued efforts of Kurt M. Swenson, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and other senior management. Our business is also dependent on our ability to continue to attract and retain a highly skilled retail, quarrying and manufacturing workforce, including sales managers and counselors, stone cutters, sand blasters, sculptors and other skilled artisans. The loss of the services of Mr. Swenson, other members of the Company's senior management or other highly skilled personnel could adversely affect our business and operating results. We face intense competition and, if we are unable to compete successfully, we may be unable to increase our sales, which would adversely affect our business and profitability. The dimension stone industry is highly competitive. We compete with other dimension stone quarriers, including quarriers of granite, marble, limestone, travertine and other natural stones. We also compete with manufacturers of so-called "engineered stone" as well as manufacturers of other building materials like concrete, aluminum, glass, wood and other materials. We compete with providers of these materials on the basis of price, availability of supply, end-user preference for certain colors, patterns or textures, and other factors. The granite memorial industry is also highly competitive. We compete with other granite quarriers and manufacturers in the sale of granite blocks for memorial use on the basis of price, color, quality, geographic proximity, service, design availability, production capability, availability of supply and delivery options. All of our colors of granite are subject to competition from memorial grade granite blocks of similar color supplied by quarriers located throughout the world. There are approximately 140 manufacturers of granite memorials in North America. There are also manufacturers of granite memorials in India, South Africa, China and Portugal that sell finished memorials in North America. Our quarrying and manufacturing competitors include both domestic and international companies, some of which may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and other resources. Foreign competitors may have access to lower cost labor and better commercial deposits of granite, and may be subject to less restrictive regulatory requirements. The competition for retail sales of granite memorials faced by our retail outlets is also intense and is based on price, quality, service, design availability and breadth of product line. Competitors include funeral home and cemetery owners, including consolidators, which have greater financial resources than we do, as well as approximately 3,000 independent retailers of granite memorials located outside of cemeteries and funeral homes. We cannot assure you domestic or foreign competition will not adversely impact our business. The increasing trend toward cremation, and potential declines in memorialization for other reasons, may result in decreased sales of our products. There is an increasing trend toward cremation in the United States. The latest statistics from the National Funeral Director's Association, or NFDA, indicate cremation was used in approximately 32% of the deaths in the United States in 2005, compared to approximately 29% in 2003. To the extent increases in cremation rates result in decreases in memorialization rates, this decrease will result in a decline in our memorial sales, which will adversely affect our business and results of operations. 9 Our business is also subject to the risk that memorialization rates may decline over time for other reasons. Certain cemeteries have in the past and may in the future limit the use of granite memorials as a memorialization option. To the extent general memorialization rates or the willingness of cemeteries to accept granite memorials declines, this decline could adversely affect our business. Sales of our products are seasonal and may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. Historically, our operations have experienced certain seasonal patterns. Generally, our net sales are highest in the second or third quarter and lowest in the first quarter of each year due primarily to weather. Cemeteries in northern regions generally do not accept granite memorials during winter months when the ground is frozen because they cannot be properly set. We typically close certain of our Vermont and Canadian quarries from January to late March because of increased operating costs attributable to weather conditions. We have historically incurred an aggregate net loss during the first three months of each calendar year. Our operating results may vary materially from quarter to quarter due to, among other things, acquisitions and related integration costs, changes in product mix, shipping conditions and limitations on the timing of price increases, making quarterly year-to-year comparisons less meaningful. Our competitive position could be harmed if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights. We believe our tradenames, trademarks, brands, designs and other intellectual property are of great value, and we rely on trademark, copyright and other proprietary rights laws to protect our rights to this valuable intellectual property. Third parties may in the future try to challenge our ownership of our intellectual property. In addition, our business is subject to the risk of third parties counterfeiting our products or infringing on our intellectual property rights. We may need to resort to litigation in the future to protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights, most notably the Rock of Ages trademark, could have a serious adverse effect on our business and competitive position. Our business is subject to a number of operating risks that are difficult to predict and manage. Our quarry and manufacturing operations are subject to numerous risks and hazards inherent in those industries, including among others, unanticipated surface or underground conditions, varying saleable granite recovery rates due to natural cracks and other imperfections in granite deposits, equipment failures, accidents and worker injuries, labor issues, weather conditions and events, unanticipated transportation costs and price fluctuations. As a result, actual costs and expenditures, production quantities and delivery dates, as well as revenues, may differ materially from those anticipated, which could adversely affect our operating results. Sales of our ancillary products are cyclical, which may adversely affect our operating results. The markets for our industrial precision products, which include machine base and surface plates that are utilized in the automotive, aeronautic, computer, machine tool, optical, precision grinding and inspection industries, and granite press rolls used in the manufacture of paper, are subject to substantial cyclical variations. Sales of these products are subject to decline as a result of general economic downturns, or as a result of uncertainties regarding current and future economic conditions that generally affect such industries. We cannot assure you changes in the industries to which we sell our precision products will not adversely affect our operating results. No-Call Legislation may adversely affect our retail marketing efforts. Our retail stores and sales counselors are subject to the so-called "No-Call" laws, which allow consumers to place their telephone number on a "no-call" list maintained by various states and the federal government. At present, there are "No-Call" laws in a majority of states in which we do business and the federal "No-Call" law went into effect in the Fall of 2003. Our sales counselors are unable to make telephone calls to any consumer whose number has been placed on the applicable no-call list, subject to certain limited exceptions. Making telephone calls to introduce the Company and set appointments has been an important part of marketing our retail products and services. Compliance with the "No-Call" laws could adversely affect our retail business and results of operations. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm are unable to affirm the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in future years, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we assess and report on our internal control over financial reporting, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2007. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must audit and report on management's assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 and subsequent fiscal year end dates. We are in the process of documenting and testing our system of internal controls to provide the basis for our report. However, at this time, due to the ongoing evaluation and testing, no assurance can be given that there may not be significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that would be required to be reported. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will be able to report that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. In this event, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the market value of our Class A Common Stock. 10 We may need to improve our controls over the preparation, review, presentation and disclosure of our consolidated financial statements. We reported a material weakness in both fiscal 2004 and 2005 related to maintaining effective controls over the preparation, review, presentation and disclosure of our consolidated financial statements. A material weakness is a control deficiency or a combination of control deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement in the annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Specifically, our controls failed to prevent or detect the incorrect classification of certain freight charges. This resulted in the restatement of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 (See note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K). Prior to the restatement and corrections, the Company's method of accounting for certain freight costs to deliver products to customers' designated locations was to include these costs as a deduction from net revenues. Such costs are now included in cost of sales, in accordance with EITF Consensus No. 00-10, "Accounting for Shipping and Handling Fees and Costs." The restatement and corrections to correct the classification of such costs to cost of sales had no impact on total gross profit, income from continuing operations, net income or earnings per share for any of the periods restated. In order to correct and restate the financial statements and data identified above, we identified and tabulated the amounts of revenue and expense for each of the affected periods. We segregated in our accounting records amounts recognized as revenue when customers are billed for freight, and segregated in our accounting records amounts paid to third parties for freight and handling to deliver products to customers' designated location. Affected operating and accounting staff have been trained on the appropriate use of these accounts. We believe that in 2006 we have put in place controls and procedures necessary to properly account for and report shipping and handling fees and costs and we will continue to evaluate whether additional financial statement preparation and review procedures are necessary to remediate the material weakness described above. Existing stockholders are able to exercise significant control over us. Kurt M. Swenson and his brother, Kevin C. Swenson, collectively have 64% of the total voting power of all outstanding shares of our common stock, and will therefore be in a position to control the outcome of most corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of transactions involving a change in control of the Company. We may incur substantial costs to comply with government regulations. Our quarry and manufacturing operations are subject to substantial regulation by federal and state governmental statutes and agencies, including the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Mine Safety and Health Administration and similar state and Canadian authorities. Our operations are also subject to extensive laws and regulations administered by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and similar state and Canadian authorities, for the protection of the environment, including but not limited to those relating to air and water quality, and solid and hazardous waste handling and disposal. These laws and regulations may require parties to fund remedial action or to pay damages regardless of fault. Environmental laws and regulations may also impose liability with respect to divested or terminated operations even if the operations were divested or terminated many years ago. In addition, current and future environmental or occupational health and safety laws, regulations or regulatory interpretations may require significant expenditures for compliance, which could require us to modify or curtail our operations. We cannot predict the effect of such laws, regulations or regulatory interpretations on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any material non-compliance could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Provisions of our corporate organizational documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, even if it would be beneficial to our stockholders. Certain provisions contained in our Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws: grant ten votes per share to each share of Class B Common Stock; divide the Board of Directors into three classes, each of which will have a different three-year term; provide that stockholders may remove directors from office only for cause and by a supermajority vote; provide that special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Board of Directors or certain Company officers and not by stockholders; establish certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for stockholder proposals to be considered at annual stockholders' meetings; authorize the issuance of preferred stock. Accordingly, the Board of Directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could materially adversely affect the voting power or other rights of, or be dilutive to, the holders of our Common Stock. Certain of these provisions may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control or unsolicited acquisition proposals a stockholder may consider favorable. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit or delay large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. 11 