Item 1A. Risk Factors Farmer Mac’s business activities, financial performance and results of operations are, by their nature, subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Consequently, the Corporation’s net interest income, total revenues and net income have been, and are likely to continue to be, subject to fluctuations that reflect the effect of many factors, including the risk factors described below. Other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K may include additional factors that could adversely affect Farmer Mac’s business and its financial performance and results of operations. Furthermore, because new risk factors likely will emerge from time to time, management can neither predict all such risk factors nor assess the effects of such factors on Farmer Mac’s business, operating results and financial condition or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may affect the Corporation’s actual results and financial condition. If any of the following risks materialize, Farmer Mac’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 38 An inability to access the debt capital markets could have a material adverse effect on Farmer Mac’s business, operating results, financial condition and capital levels. Farmer Mac’s ability to operate its business, meet its obligations, grow its assets and fulfill its statutory purpose depends on the Corporation’s ability to issue substantial amounts of debt frequently and at favorable rates. The issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities in the U.S. financial markets is the primary source of funding for Farmer Mac’s purchases of program and non-program assets and for repaying or refinancing existing debt. Moreover, one of the primary sources of the Corporation’s revenue is the net interest income earned from the difference, or “spread,” between the return received on assets held and the related borrowing costs. Farmer Mac’s ability to obtain funds through the issuance of debt, and the cost at which these funds may be obtained, depends on many factors, including: · Farmer Mac’s corporate and regulatory structure, including its status as a GSE and perceptions about the viability of stockholder-owned GSEs in general; · compliance with regulatory capital requirements and any measures imposed by Farmer Mac’s regulator if the Corporation were to fail to remain in compliance with those requirements; · Farmer Mac’s financial results and changes in its financial condition; · the public’s perception of the risks to and financial prospects of Farmer Mac’s business; · prevailing conditions in the capital markets; · competition from other issuers of GSE debt; and · legislative or regulatory actions relating to Farmer Mac’s business, including any actions that would affect the Corporation’s GSE status or add additional requirements that would restrict or reduce its ability to issue debt. Farmer Mac’s business, operating results, financial condition and capital levels may be materially and adversely affected by external factors that may be beyond its control. Farmer Mac’s business, operating results, financial condition and capital levels may be materially and adversely affected by external factors that may be beyond its control, including, but not limited to: · disruptions in the capital markets, which could adversely affect the value and performance of Farmer Mac’s program and non-program assets, the Corporation’s liquidity position and Farmer Mac’s ability to fund assets at favorable levels by issuing debt securities and to raise capital by selling equity securities; · legislative or regulatory developments or interpretations of Farmer Mac’s statutory charter that could adversely affect Farmer Mac, its ability to offer new products, the ability or motivation of certain lenders to participate in its programs or the terms of any such participation, or increase the cost of regulation and related corporate activities; · Farmer Mac’s access to the debt markets at favorable rates and terms; · competitive pressures in the purchase of agricultural real estate mortgage loans and the sale of Farmer Mac Guaranteed Securities and debt securities; · changes in interest rates, agricultural land values, commodity prices, export demand for U.S. agricultural products, general economic conditions, and other factors that may affect delinquency levels and credit losses on agricultural real estate mortgage loans; · protracted adverse weather, animal and plant disease outbreaks, costs of agricultural production inputs for farmers and ranchers, availability and cost of agricultural workers, market or other conditions affecting particular geographic regions or particular agricultural commodities or products related to agricultural real estate mortgage loans backing Farmer Mac I Guaranteed Securities or under LTSPCs; 39 · the effects of any changes in federal assistance for agriculture on the agricultural economy; · energy policy changes that adversely affect the loan repayment capacity of ethanol plants; · public policy changes that adversely affect rural electric cooperatives, including carbon capture or limitation on coal-fired power generation and other initiatives designed to promote the shift to clean or “green” energy, which may require utilities to raise rates to customers to pay for new generation sources; · restrictions on water supply in agricultural production due to adverse weather conditions, legal disputes or other causes; · depressed real property values that may impact the value of agricultural real estate; and · decreases in demand for agricultural commodities and/or increases in production costs, in each case within a particular industry, that may affect delinquency levels and credit losses on agricultural real estate mortgage loans within that industry. Farmer Mac’s business development, profitability and capital depend on the continued growth of the secondary market for agricultural real estate mortgage loans and for rural utilities loans, the future for both of which remains uncertain. Continued growth in Farmer Mac’s business and future profitability may be constrained by conditions that limit the need or ability for lenders to obtain the benefits of Farmer Mac’s programs, including, but not limited to: · reduced growth rates in the agricultural mortgage market due to the slowdown of the overall economy; · the availability of other sources of capital for customers of Farmer Mac, including through federal programs; · the acceptance by Federal Home Loan Banks of agricultural real estate mortgage loans as collateral; · the historical preference of many agricultural lending institutions to retain loans in their portfolios rather than to sell them into the secondary market; · the small number of business partners that currently provide a significant portion of Farmer Mac’s business volume, resulting in vulnerability as existing business volume pays down or matures and the status of these business partners evolves; · expanded funding available from the federal government for rural utilities lenders; and · legislative and regulatory developments that affect the agricultural and rural utilities sectors. 40 Farmer Mac is a GSE whose continued growth may be materially and adversely affected by legislative and regulatory developments. Farmer Mac is a GSE that is governed by a statutory charter controlled by the U.S. Congress and regulated by governmental agencies. Although Farmer Mac is not aware of any pending legislative proposals which would adversely affect the Corporation at this time, Farmer Mac is subject to risks and uncertainties related to legislative, regulatory or political developments. Such developments could affect the ability of lenders to participate in Farmer Mac’s programs or the terms on which they may participate. Further, from time to time, legislative or regulatory initiatives are commenced that, if successful, could result in the enactment of legislation or the promulgation of regulations that could affect negatively the growth or operation of the secondary market for agricultural mortgages and rural utilities loans. For example, the costs related to any potential climate change legislation costs could be significant to the electric utility industry, which could dramatically increase the cost of energy from thermal generation sources and have a particularly damaging effect on rural G&T cooperatives, which generally have a higher reliance on fossil-fueled resources and are more dependent on coal-fired generation than the electric industry as a whole. Any of these political or regulatory developments could have a material and adverse effect on Farmer Mac’s business, operating results, financial condition and capital levels. See “Government Regulation of Farmer Mac” in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion on the rules and regulations governing Farmer Mac’s activities. Farmer Mac is subject to statutory and regulatory capital requirements that are subject to change, and failure to meet those requirements could result in supervisory measures or otherwise materially and adversely affect Farmer Mac’s business, operating results or financial condition. Farmer Mac is required by statute and regulation to maintain certain core capital levels. Any inability by Farmer Mac to meet these capital requirements could result in supervisory measures by FCA or could otherwise materially and adversely affect Farmer Mac’s business, operating results or financial condition. Factors that could adversely affect the adequacy of Farmer Mac’s capital levels in the future, and which may be beyond Farmer Mac’s control, include: · the potential for any other-than-temporary impairment charges; · adverse changes in interest rates or credit spreads; · the potential need to increase the level of the allowance for losses on program assets in the future; · legislative or regulatory actions that increase Farmer Mac’s applicable capital requirements; and · changes in generally accepted accounting principles. Farmer Mac Guaranteed Securities and LTSPCs expose Farmer Mac to significant contingent liabilities, and its ability to fulfill its obligations under its guarantees and LTSPCs may be limited. Farmer Mac assumes the ultimate credit risk of borrower defaults on the loans it holds as well as the loans underlying Farmer Mac Guaranteed Securities and LTSPCs. In the Farmer Mac I program, repayment of eligible loans typically depends on the success of the related farming operation, which, in turn, depends on many variables and factors over which farmers may have little or no control, such as weather conditions, animal and plant disease outbreaks, economic conditions (both domestic and international) and political conditions. 41 In the Rural Utilities program, eligible utilities operations include the distribution of electricity, the generation and transmission of electricity, and telecommunications. Each type of utility operation has different inherent risks associated with it, but all share a common risk posed by potential changes in public and regulatory policies. Business cash flows can be disrupted as a result of storms, though distribution cooperatives have in place cost-sharing arrangements with providers in other regions that mitigate this exposure. Historically, natural disasters have often resulted in disaster area declarations and financial aid to utilities providers through the Federal Emergency Management Agency and other conduits, although there can be no assurance that any such aid would be available in the event of any future natural disaster. The electrical distribution and generation sectors can be adversely affected by changes in fuel costs and prices received from consumers, as well as by contractual power obligations that do not match up with supply or demand. The depth and pace of technological change in the telecommunications industry can also provide significant challenges, as the industry requires heavy capital investment and correct judgments about the sustainability of new technologies in an area with many competitors. Widespread repayment shortfalls on loans in the Farmer Mac I program or Rural Utilities program could require Farmer Mac to pay under its guarantees and LTSPCs and could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Farmer Mac Guaranteed Securities and LTSPCs are obligations of Farmer Mac only, and are not backed by the full faith and credit of the United States, FCA or any other agency or instrumentality of the United States other than Farmer Mac. Farmer Mac’s principal source of funds for the payment of claims under its guarantees and purchase commitments are the fees received in connection with outstanding Farmer Mac Guaranteed Securities and LTSPCs. These amounts are, and will continue to be, substantially less than the amount of Farmer Mac’s aggregate contingent liabilities under its guarantees and LTSPCs. Farmer Mac is required to set aside a portion of the fees it receives as a reserve against losses from its guarantee and commitment activities. Farmer Mac expects that its future contingent liabilities for its guarantee and commitment activities will continue to grow and will exceed Farmer Mac’s resources, including amounts in the Corporation’s allowance for losses and its limited ability to borrow from the U.S. Treasury. Farmer Mac is exposed to credit risk and interest rate risk that could materially and adversely affect its business, operating results, financial condition, capital levels and future earnings. Farmer Mac’s earnings depend largely on the performance of its program assets and non-program investments, and the spread between interest earned on such assets and investments and interest paid on Farmer Mac’s obligations and liabilities. As a result, Farmer Mac’s earnings may be adversely affected by its exposure to credit and interest rate risks, including: · credit risk associated with the agricultural mortgages and rural utilities loans that Farmer Mac purchases or commits to purchase or that back Farmer Mac Guaranteed Securities; · interest rate risk on interest-earning assets and related interest-bearing liabilities due to possible timing differences in the associated cash flows; · credit risk associated with Farmer Mac’s business relationships with other institutions, such as counterparties to interest rate swap contracts and other hedging arrangements; and · risks as to the creditworthiness of the issuers of AgVantage securities and the Corporation’s non-program investments. 42 Farmer Mac may be adversely affected by weak economic conditions and market turmoil. The recent significant disruptions in world financial markets, and resulting economic downturn, may have an adverse effect on the value and performance of Farmer Mac’s assets. The possible duration and severity of the adverse economic cycle is unknown, as the efficacy of legislative and regulatory efforts and programs to stabilize the economy are uncertain. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that economic conditions will improve in the near future. To the extent that economic conditions, such as high unemployment or decreases in agricultural real estate values, negatively impact agricultural production or demand, Farmer Mac’s business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. Farmer Mac may experience writedowns of its investments in future periods, which could adversely affect the Corporation’s business, operating results, financial condition and capital levels. Deterioration in financial and credit market conditions could reduce the fair value of Farmer Mac’s investment securities, particularly those securities that are less liquid and more subject to volatility. Recent events in the credit markets have also necessitated an increase in the amount of judgment required to be exercised by management to value certain securities. Furthermore, Farmer Mac relies on internal models to determine the fair value of certain investment securities, and those models could fail to produce reliable results. Subsequent valuations of investment securities, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the value of the Corporation’s investment securities in the future. If Farmer Mac decides to sell any of the securities in its investment portfolio, the price ultimately realized will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. Changes in interest rates may cause volatility in financial results and capital levels. Farmer Mac enters into financial derivatives transactions to hedge interest rate risks inherent in its business and applies fair value accounting to its financial derivatives transactions pursuant to guidance from the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) on accounting for derivatives; it does not apply hedge accounting to those derivatives. Although Farmer Mac’s financial derivatives provide highly effective economic hedges of interest rate risk, the FASB guidance requires the losses on financial derivatives to be reflected in net income, while a majority of the offsetting economic gains on the hedged items are not. In addition to volatile earnings under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”), another consequence of the changes in the fair values of financial derivatives being accounted for in earnings is the resulting effect on Farmer Mac’s regulatory core capital that is available to meet the Corporation’s statutory minimum capital requirement. 43 Farmer Mac relies on information systems and other technology in its business operations, and any failure or interruption in those systems could adversely affect Farmer Mac’s business, operating results or financial condition. Farmer Mac relies heavily on information systems and other technology, including from third parties, to conduct and manage its business. If Farmer Mac experiences a failure or interruption in any of these systems or other technology, including as a result of any actions or failures of third parties, it may be unable to conduct and manage its business effectively. Although Farmer Mac has implemented a business continuity plan, Farmer Mac may not be able to prevent, address on a timely and adequate basis, or mitigate the negative effects of any failure or interruption. Furthermore, any breach or loss of sensitive or confidential information could cause Farmer Mac to suffer reputational harm with respect to its business partners. As a result, any failure or interruption of these information systems or other technology could adversely affect Farmer Mac’s business, operating results or financial condition. If Farmer Mac’s management of risk associated with its program and non-program assets is not effective, its business, operating results, financial condition and capital levels could be materially adversely affected. Recent events in the financial markets relating to volatility, liquidity and credit have challenged financial institutions, including Farmer Mac, to adapt and further develop profitability and risk management models adequate to address a wider range of possible market developments. Farmer Mac’s techniques and strategies may not be effective in mitigating its risk exposure in all economic market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that Farmer Mac fails to identify or anticipate. Some of Farmer Mac’s qualitative tools and metrics for managing risk are based upon its use of observed historical market behavior. Farmer Mac applies statistical and other tools to these observations to quantify its risks. These tools and metrics may fail to predict future risk. Such failures could, for example, arise from factors Farmer Mac did not anticipate or correctly evaluate in its models. In addition, Farmer Mac’s quantified modeling does not take into account all risks. Its more qualitative approach to managing those risks could prove insufficient, exposing it to material unanticipated losses. The inability of Farmer Mac to effectively identify and manage the risks inherent in its business could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results, financial condition and capital levels. Farmer Mac’s ability to repay its obligations and/or raise capital through issuances of debt or equity may be adversely affected by the operating results of its subsidiary Farmer Mac II LLC. In January 2010, Farmer Mac contributed substantially all of its Farmer Mac II program business to Farmer Mac II LLC, including USDA-guaranteed portions having an aggregate principal amount of $1.1 billion and the primary intangible assets related to the operation of the Farmer Mac II program. As a result, the assets of Farmer Mac II LLC are not directly available to satisfy the claims of Farmer Mac’s creditors or stockholders. In the event of an insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or winding-up of Farmer Mac II LLC, Farmer Mac, as the holder of the common equity interest, may lose all or some of its investment in Farmer Mac II LLC, which event likely would adversely affect Farmer Mac’s ability to raise capital, issue new debt and repay outstanding debt as it comes due. If Farmer Mac is a creditor to Farmer Mac II LLC, the value of Farmer Mac II LLC’s assets may be insufficient to repay amounts due to Farmer Mac, which also could adversely affect Farmer Mac’s ability to raise capital, issue new debt and repay outstanding debt as it comes due. In addition, the ability of Farmer Mac II LLC to successfully operate the Farmer Mac II program will impact its ability to pay dividends on the common equity interest owned by Farmer Mac. If Farmer Mac II LLC cannot pay dividends to Farmer Mac or repay or refinance obligations owed to Farmer Mac, Farmer Mac’s liquidity and ability to raise additional capital also may be adversely affected, which could adversely affect the Corporation’s operating results and financial condition. 44 Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect Farmer Mac’s business, operating results, financial condition, capital levels and future earnings. For additional discussion about the Corporation’s risk management, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operation—Risk Management” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 