ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or which are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our credit facility with CIT expires on October 27, 2007, and we will need to renew or refinance that facility prior to that time. Our credit facility with CIT expires in accordance with its terms on October 27, 2007. While the Company expects to begin discussions with its lenders on the renewal of the credit facility during the second quarter of 2007, there can be no assurance that we can reach agreement to renew the facility on terms satisfactory to us or our lenders. Moreover, our lenders are under no obligation to renew the credit facility and may refuse to do so or to offer new credit terms. If we are unable to renew the CIT credit facility or obtain replacement financing with other lenders prior to the expiration of the CIT credit facility, all amounts outstanding thereunder (approximately $34 million as of December 31, 2006) will become due and payable in full on October 27, 2007, which would materially impact our liquidity and financial condition and could require us to cease operations or seek protection under state or federal insolvency or bankruptcy laws. Our credit facility with CIT includes restrictions on our business operations that we must comply with, and financial tests that we must meet, in order to continue to borrow under the facility to support our operations. The terms of our credit facility with CIT restrict our ability to, among other things, consummate asset sales, participate in mergers, incur additional debt, pay dividends, repurchase stock or make investments or guarantees. The terms also contain covenants that require us to meet financial tests, including a minimum Operating Cash Flow to Debt Service Ratio and a maximum Total Liabilities to Net Worth Ratio, in order to continue to borrow under the facility and avoid a default that might lead to an early termination of the facility. The terms of this credit facility, including these covenants, are generally described in Item 7 of this report under the caption "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Credit Facility." As described under such caption, we were in violation of the Minimum Operating Cash Flow to Debt Service Coverage Ratio covenant levels primarily as a result of poor operating results for 2005 and 2006. During 2005 and 2006, we received waivers allowing us to be in compliance with the covenants in our credit facility and our lenders agreed to adjust the required covenant levels for the balance of the term of the facility. Due to extremely adverse weather conditions in its various markets during the first quarter of 2007, the Company expects to be in violation of the Ratio covenant in the first quarter of 2007. In anticipation of missing the Ratio covenant and in advance of the end of the first quarter, the Company has obtained a waiver of the violation of the Ratio covenant for the first quarter from the Lenders. After the first quarter of 2007, the Company expects to be in compliance with all existing covenants through the remaining term of the credit facility. However, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to maintain compliance with the covenants in our loan facility. Moreover, if we fail to maintain compliance with such covenants we cannot provide assurances that we will continue to receive waivers of any non-compliance. If we are unable to comply with the financial or other covenants of our loan facility, and we could not obtain waivers of such non-compliance, we will likely be unable to borrow additional amounts under the facility and amounts owed under the facility could be accelerated and become due and payable immediately, which would materially impact our liquidity and financial condition and could require us to cease operations or seek protection under state or federal insolvency or bankruptcy laws. 7 If we or our independent registered public accounting firm are unable to affirm the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in future years, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected. Under the current transition rules, our management will be required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes Oxley Act"), to assess, and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2007, and in subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K for subsequent years, respectively, report on, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, and subsequent fiscal year end dates, respectively. In addition, under these transition rules, our independent registered public accounting firm must audit and report on management's assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 and subsequent fiscal year end dates, respectively, and such report must be included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2008, and in subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K for subsequent years, respectively. In 2006 we reported a material weakness related to maintaining effective controls over the preparation, review, presentation and disclosure of our consolidated financial statements for the first three quarters of 2005 and all of 2004 in that our controls failed to prevent or detect an incorrect classification of certain freight charges. We believe this weakness has been remediated. However, we cannot provide assurances that there are not, or will not in the future be significant deficiencies or other material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that would be required to be reported. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will be able to report that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. In this event, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the market value of our Class A Common Stock. Changes in the securities laws and regulations have increased, and are likely to continue to increase, our costs, and may also adversely affect our ability to attract and retain qualified directors. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. Pursuant to the requirements of that Act, the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market have promulgated rules and listing standards covering a variety of subjects. Compliance with these new rules and listing standards has increased our legal costs, and significantly increased our accounting and auditing costs, and we expect these costs to continue to increase, and to materially impact our financial results. In particular, we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial expense in the on-going evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting as we prepare for the future applicability to us of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These changes in securities laws and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain directors' and officers' liability insurance. Likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly independent directors, or qualified executive officers. The Pension Protection Act may adversely affect our cash flow. We have a qualified defined benefit pension plan which covers eligible employees. At December 31, 2006, this plan is underfunded, which means that promised pension benefits could potentially exceed the funds available. In August 2006, the Pension Protection Act (the "Act") was signed into law. Among other things, the Act is aimed at strengthening pension plans by requiring most pension plans to become fully funded over a seven-year period. The new law allows employers to deduct the cost of making additional contributions to fund the pension, provides strict funding guidelines, and imposes a 10% excise tax on companies that fail to correct their funding deficiencies. Compliance with the funding requirements of the Pension Protection Act could adversely affect our cash flow. The profitability of the Company depends, at least in part, on our ability to continue to successfully execute staff productivity improvements, sales and marketing initiatives, or other strategies, with respect to our retail division that will enhance overall financial performance. Our ability to improve retail profits depends in part on our ability to continue to successfully execute store level staffing plans that will allow us to operate more efficiently and with a smaller managerial staff and successfully implement sales and marketing programs, including the branding program and funeral director outreach. Our failure to execute these plans and programs or to implement other strategies with respect to our retail division that will increase overall profitability, will adversely affect our business and financial results. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in this regard. 8 Improved performance of our retail division will depend, at least in part, on our ability to form relationships with funeral directors, cemeteries and other death care providers. Achieving improvements in the performance of our retail business depends in part on our ability to successfully develop and maintain referral relationships with funeral homes, cemeteries and other death care professionals. We cannot assure you we will be able to successfully form or maintain these relationships in all of the areas in which we have retail businesses. In certain cases, we may be unable to form such relationships where our stores are in direct competition with funeral homes and cemeteries that sell granite memorials. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with independent retailers, our sales may not grow and could decline. We have historically sold our granite memorials to consumers through independent retailers. Since we entered the retail business in 1997, we have acquired retailers with multiple retail outlets and have opened new stores; we now have stores in 16 states. However, we are still dependent in part on our independent retailers for the successful distribution of our products to the ultimate customer. We have no control over the independent retailers' operations, including such matters as retail price, advertising and marketing. Although we have taken steps to avoid and minimize conflicts between our owned retail stores and our independent retailers, some of our existing independent retailers have viewed, and continue to view, our owned retail stores as competitors. In certain cases, this has adversely affected their relationship with us and caused them to decrease or cease their purchases of our products. In addition, significant barriers to entry created by local heritage, community presence and tradition characterize the granite memorial retail industry. Consequently, we have experienced and may continue to experience difficulty replacing retailers or entering particular retail markets in the event of a loss of an independent retailer. We cannot assure you we will be able to maintain our existing relationships or establish new relationships with independent retailers. Disruption in our relationships with independent retailers could impede our sales growth or cause sales to decline, which would adversely affect our business and financial results. Our international operations may expose us to a number of risks related to conducting business in foreign countries. We derived approximately 25% of total revenues in fiscal 2006 from sales to customers outside the United States, including approximately 11% from sales in Canada by our Canadian subsidiary. Foreign sales are subject to numerous risks, including currency conversion risks, limitations (including taxes) on the repatriation of earnings, slower and more difficult accounts receivable collection and greater complication and expense in complying with foreign laws. Our sales of granite blocks to foreign countries are primarily for building use and are subject to various cyclical factors in foreign countries, foreign exchange rate fluctuations, policies of foreign governments and numerous other factors over which we have no control. In 2005, our sales of granite blocks into China declined significantly as a result of economic conditions in China. While we saw some signs of recovery in our Chinese markets in 2006 and we have taken and are continuing to take steps to develop sales to customers in other countries, we cannot assure you that sales of granite blocks to our Chinese and other Asian customers will recover to historic levels. We own a 1/3 equity interest in VIKA, Ltd., a Ukrainian closed joint stock company that owns the right to quarry certain stone known as "Galactic Blue" on certain property located in Zhytomir, Ukraine. We also acquired the worldwide right to distribute Galactic Blue. Historically, political and governmental instability has been a feature in Ukraine, and the political and regulatory climate is subject to rapid change. Our investment in VIKA is subject to risks inherent in international operations, including adverse governmental actions, political risks, expropriation of assets and the risk of civil unrest and war. As the political and regulatory environment changes, we may face uncertainty about the interpretation of the agreements to which we are party and, in the event of dispute, we may have limited recourse within the legal and political system. Employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may adversely affect our operations. Our business is labor intensive, and our workforce includes, among other employees, highly skilled quarrying and manufacturing personnel such as stone cutters, sand blasters, sculptors and other skilled artisans. Approximately 36% of our workforce is unionized. Strikes or labor disputes with our unionized employees may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. 9 If we lose key personnel, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, our business could suffer. Our operations and the implementation of our strategies to enhance overall Company profitability are management intensive. We are substantially dependent upon the abilities and continued efforts of Kurt M. Swenson, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and other senior management. Our business is also dependent on our ability to continue to attract and retain a highly skilled retail, quarry and manufacturing workforce, including sales managers and counselors, stone cutters, sand blasters, sculptors and other skilled artisans. The loss of the services of Mr. Swenson, other members of the Company's senior management or other highly skilled personnel could adversely affect our business and operating results. We face intense competition and, if we are unable to compete successfully, we may be unable to increase our sales, which would adversely affect our business and profitability. The dimension stone industry is highly competitive. We compete with other dimension stone quarriers, including quarriers of granite, marble, limestone, travertine and other natural stones. We also compete with manufacturers of so-called "engineered stone" as well as manufacturers of other building materials like concrete, aluminum, glass, wood and other materials. We compete with providers of these materials on the basis of price, availability of supply, end-user preference for certain colors, patterns or textures, and other factors. The granite memorial industry is also highly competitive. We compete with other granite quarriers and manufacturers in the sale of granite blocks for memorial use on the basis of price, color, quality, geographic proximity, service, design availability, production capability, and delivery options. All of our colors of granite are subject to competition from memorial grade granite blocks of similar color supplied by quarriers located throughout the world. There are approximately 140 manufacturers of granite memorials in North America. There are also manufacturers of granite memorials in India, South Africa, China and Portugal that sell finished memorials in North America. Our quarrying and manufacturing competitors include both domestic and international companies, some of which may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and other resources. Foreign competitors may have access to lower cost labor and better commercial deposits of granite, and may be subject to less restrictive regulatory requirements. The competition for retail sales of granite memorials faced by our retail outlets is also intense and is based on price, quality, service, design, availability and breadth of product line. Competitors include funeral home and cemetery owners, including consolidators, which have greater financial resources than we do, as well as approximately 3,000 independent retailers of granite memorials. We cannot assure you domestic or foreign competition will not adversely impact our business. The increasing trend toward cremation, and potential declines in memorialization for other reasons, may result in decreased sales of our products. There is an increasing trend toward cremation in the United States. The latest statistics from the National Funeral Director's Association, or NFDA, indicate cremation was used in approximately 32% of the deaths in the United States in 2005, compared to approximately 29% in 2003. To the extent increases in cremation rates result in decreases in memorialization rates, this decrease will result in a decline in our memorial sales, which will adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business is also subject to the risk that memorialization rates may decline over time for other reasons. Certain cemeteries have in the past and may in the future limit the use of granite memorials as a memorialization option. To the extent general memorialization rates or the willingness of cemeteries to accept granite memorials declines, this decline could adversely affect our business. Sales of our products are seasonal and may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. Historically, our operations have experienced certain seasonal patterns. Generally, our net sales are highest in the second or third quarter and lowest in the first quarter of each year due primarily to weather. Cemeteries in northern regions generally do not accept granite memorials during winter months when the ground is frozen because they cannot be properly set. We typically close our Vermont and Canadian quarries from January to late March because of increased operating costs attributable to weather conditions. We have historically incurred an aggregate net loss during the first three months of each calendar year. Our operating results may vary materially from quarter to quarter due to, among other things, acquisitions and related integration costs, changes in product mix, shipping conditions and limitations on the timing of price increases, making quarterly year-to-year comparisons less meaningful. 10 Our competitive position could be harmed if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights. We believe our tradenames, trademarks, brands, designs and other intellectual property are of great value, and we rely on trademark, copyright and other proprietary rights laws to protect our rights to this valuable intellectual property. Third parties may in the future try to challenge our ownership of our intellectual property. In addition, our business is subject to the risk of third parties counterfeiting our products or infringing on our intellectual property rights. We may need to resort to litigation in the future to protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights, most notably the Rock of Ages trademark, could have a serious adverse effect on our business and competitive position. Our business is subject to a number of operating risks that are difficult to predict and manage. Our quarry and manufacturing operations are subject to numerous risks and hazards inherent in those industries, including among others, unanticipated surface or underground conditions, varying saleable granite recovery rates due to natural cracks and other imperfections in granite deposits, equipment failures, accidents and worker injuries, labor issues, weather conditions and events, unanticipated transportation costs and price fluctuations. As a result, actual costs and expenditures, production quantities and delivery dates, as well as revenues, may differ materially from those anticipated, which could adversely affect our operating results. Sales of our ancillary products are cyclical, which may adversely affect our operating results. The markets for our industrial precision products, which include machine base and surface plates that are utilized in the automotive, aeronautic, computer, machine tool, optical, precision grinding and inspection industries, and granite press rolls used in the manufacture of paper, are subject to substantial cyclical variations. Sales of these products are subject to decline as a result of general economic downturns, or as a result of uncertainties regarding current and future economic conditions that generally affect such industries. We cannot assure you changes in the industries to which we sell our precision products will not adversely affect our operating results. No-Call Legislation may adversely affect our retail marketing efforts. Our retail stores and sales counselors are subject to the so-called "No-Call" laws, which allow consumers to place their telephone number on a "no-call" list maintained by various states and the federal government. At present, there are "No-Call" laws in a majority of states in which we do business and the federal "No-Call" law went into effect in the Fall of 2003. Our sales counselors are unable to make telephone calls to any consumer whose number has been placed on the applicable no-call list, subject to certain limited exceptions. Making telephone calls to introduce the Company and set appointments has been an important part of marketing our retail products and services. Compliance with the "No-Call" laws could adversely affect our retail business and results of operations. Existing stockholders are able to exercise significant control over us. Kurt M. Swenson and his brother, Kevin C. Swenson, collectively have 64% of the total voting power of all outstanding shares of our common stock, and will therefore be in a position to control the outcome of most corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of transactions involving a change in control of the Company. We may incur substantial costs to comply with government regulations. Our quarry and manufacturing operations are subject to substantial regulation under federal, state and foreign governmental statutes and by federal, state and foreign governmental agencies, including the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Mine Safety and Health Administration and similar state and Canadian authorities. Our operations are also subject to extensive laws and regulations administered by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and similar state and Canadian authorities, for the protection of the environment, including but not limited to those relating to air and water quality, and solid and hazardous waste handling and disposal. These laws and regulations may require parties to fund remedial action or to pay damages regardless of fault. Environmental laws and regulations may also impose liability with respect to divested or terminated operations even if the operations were divested or terminated many years ago. In addition, current and future environmental or occupational health and safety laws, regulations or regulatory interpretations may require significant expenditures for compliance, which could require us to modify or curtail our operations. We cannot predict the effect of such laws, regulations or regulatory interpretations on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any material non-compliance could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 11 Provisions of our corporate organizational documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, even if it would be beneficial to our stockholders. Certain provisions contained in our Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws: grant ten votes per share to each share of Class B Common Stock; divide the Board of Directors into three classes, each of which will have a different three-year term; provide that stockholders may remove directors from office only for cause and by a supermajority vote; provide that special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Board of Directors or certain Company officers and not by stockholders; establish certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for stockholder proposals to be considered at annual stockholders' meetings; authorize the issuance of preferred stock. Accordingly, the Board of Directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could materially adversely affect the voting power or other rights of, or be dilutive to, the holders of our Common Stock. Certain of these provisions may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control or unsolicited acquisition proposals a stockholder may consider favorable. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit or delay large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. 12 