ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or which are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm are unable to affirm the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in future years, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected. 8 Our independent registered public accounting firm must audit and report on our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010 and subsequent fiscal year end dates, respectively, and such report must be included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2010, and in subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K for subsequent years, respectively. In 2007 we disclosed material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in Item 9A(T) - Controls and Procedures of the Annual Report on Form 10-K. In 2008 we remediated the weaknesses and accordingly reported no material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2009. However, we cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will be able to report that our internal control over financial reporting are effective as of December 31, 2010 and subsequent fiscal year end dates. In this event, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the market value of our Class A Common Stock. Moreover, even though we believe we have corrected the material weaknesses reported in 2007, our internal controls may not prevent all potential errors, because any system of controls and procedures, regardless of its design, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system will be achieved. There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. We rely on the CIT Group to fund our working capital needs. We rely on our credit facility for working capital needs. The lead agent/administrator on the credit facility is the CIT Business Group, a subsidiary of CIT Group, Inc. ("CIT"). On November 1, 2009, CIT filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in a pre-packaged plan of reorganization. During the months leading up to the bankruptcy filing, CIT continued to fund all requests for advances on the revolving line of credit. On December 10, 2009, CIT emerged from bankruptcy and was able to restructure its debt obligations. However, CIT's financial condition remains precarious and there is no guarantee it will continue to fund our requests or continue to honor its commitments under the credit facility. If CIT can no longer honor its commitments, we would be forced to secure other sources of financing to meet all of our cash needs, which would have a material and adverse impact on the Company's business. Our financing requirements may increase and we could have limited access to capital markets. The United States and worldwide capital and credit markets have recently experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused market prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. In addition, declining capital ratios of many lending institutions and the very weak commercial paper market have adversely impacted various lending institutions including our long-term lender CIT, which may adversely impact our ability to borrow under our existing lines of credit. While we believe that our current resources and access to capital markets are adequate to support operations over the near term and foreseeable future, we cannot assure you that these circumstances will remain unchanged. Our need for capital is dependent on operating results and may be greater than expected. Our ability to maintain our current sources of debt financing depends on our ability to remain in compliance with covenants contained in our financing agreements, including, among other requirements, maintaining a minimum total net worth and minimum cash flow and debt coverage ratios. If changes in capital markets restrict the availability of funds or increase the cost of funds, we may be required to modify, delay or abandon some of our planned expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our credit facility with CIT includes restrictions on our business operations that we must comply with, and financial tests that we must meet in order to continue to borrow under the facility to support our operations. The terms of our credit facility with CIT restrict our ability to, among other things, consummate asset sales, participate in mergers, incur additional debt, pay dividends, repurchase stock or make investments or guarantees without the prior consent of CIT. The terms also contain covenants that require us to meet financial tests, including a minimum Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio and a maximum Total Liabilities to Net Worth Ratio, in order to continue to borrow under the facility and avoid a default that might lead to an early termination of the facility. The restrictions in our credit facility may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders and make it difficult to execute our business strategy successfully. The terms of this credit facility, including these covenants, are generally described in Item 7 of this report under the caption "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Credit Facility." As described under such caption, we were in violation of our credit facility because we sustained a net loss during 2008, and we failed to meet the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio covenant for the four fiscal quarters ending December 31, 2008. These violations were primarily as a result of two non-cash charges taken during the fourth quarter of 2008. First, we took a $3,930,000 charge for the write-down of second grade block inventory at three of our export quarries, and second, we took a $1,348,000 charge for the write-down of our former headquarters building in Barre, Vermont, which was taken out of service when we consolidated our offices in Barre. 9 We received a waiver from our lenders allowing us to be in compliance with our credit facility and our lenders agreed to allow us, in calculating the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio, to add back the non-cash write-downs taken with respect to the second grade inventory and the vacated building for the first three quarters of 2009. At December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with all existing covenants and expect to remain in compliance through the remaining term of the credit facility. However, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to maintain compliance with the covenants in our credit facility, Moreover, if we fail to maintain compliance with such covenants we cannot provide assurances that we will continue to receive waivers of any non-compliance. If we are unable to comply with the financial or other covenants of our credit facility, and we could not obtain waivers of such non-compliance, we will likely be unable to borrow additional amounts under the facility and amounts owed under the facility could be accelerated and become due and payable immediately, which would materially impact our liquidity and financial conditions and could require us to cease operations or seek protection under state or federal insolvency or bankruptcy laws. Our business is subject to a number of operating risks that are difficult to predict and manage. Our quarry and manufacturing operations are subject to numerous risks and hazards inherent in those industries, including among others, unanticipated surface or underground conditions, varying saleable granite recovery rates due to natural cracks and other imperfections in granite deposits, equipment failures, accidents and worker injuries, labor issues, weather conditions and events, unanticipated transportation costs and price fluctuations. These risks and hazards are generally not predictable. As a result, actual costs and expenditures, production quantities and delivery dates, as well as revenues, may differ materially from those anticipated, which could adversely affect our operating results. During 2009, we experienced production recovery problems in our Bethel White, Gardenia White and American Black quarries, which negatively affected results of operations in 2009. These production recovery issues may persist in 2010, and we cannot assure you that our substantial continuing efforts to improve production recovery will improve our quarry segment results for 2010. Changes in the securities laws and regulations have increased, and are likely to continue to increase, our costs, and may also adversely affect our ability to attract and retain qualified directors. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. Pursuant to the requirements of that Act, the SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market have promulgated rules and listing standards covering a variety of subjects. Compliance with these new rules and listing standards has increased our legal costs, and significantly increased our accounting and auditing costs, and we expect these costs to continue to increase, and to materially impact our financial results. In particular, we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial expense in the on-going evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting as we comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These changes in securities laws and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain directors' and officers' liability insurance. Likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly independent directors, or qualified executive officers. The pension funding requirements may adversely affect our cash flow. Compliance with pension funding requirements could adversely affect our cash flow. We have a qualified defined benefit pension plan which covers eligible employees as of March 31, 2009. On January 5, 2009, the Company's Board of Directors approved actions to proceed with amendments to its defined benefit pension plan by freezing membership and future benefits in the plan. This action was effective as of March 31, 2009. At December 31, 2009, this plan is underfunded by $4.8 million, which means that promised pension benefits could potentially exceed the funds available. In August 2006, the Pension Protection Act (the "Act") was signed into law in the U.S. Among other things, the Act is aimed at strengthening pension plans by requiring most pension plans to become fully funded over a seven-year period. The Worker, Retiree and Employer Recovery Act of 2008 has provided modest relief from the market events in 2008 by decreasing short term contribution requirements. However, without an increase in the value of the plan assets we could be required to fund the plan with significant amounts of cash. Additionally, if we are unable to meet the funding targets imposed by the Act, we may incur significant penalties. See Item 7 of this report, Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with independent retailers, our sales may not grow and could decline. We have historically sold our granite memorials to consumers through independent retailers. We are dependent in part on our independent retailers for the successful distribution of our products to the ultimate customer. We have no control over the independent retailers' operations, including such matters as retail price, advertising and marketing. We cannot assure you we will be able to maintain our existing relationships or establish new relationships with independent retailers. Disruption in our relationships with independent retailers could impede our sales growth or cause sales to decline, which would adversely affect our business and financial results. Declining general economic, business, or industry conditions may cause reduced revenues and profitability. 10 Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy and expectations of slower global economic growth going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated a global recession. If the economic climate in the U.S. or abroad does not improve from its current condition or continues to deteriorate, our customers or potential customers could reduce or delay their purchases of our products, which would adversely impact both our quarrying and manufacturing business segments. Our international operations may expose us to a number of risks related to conducting business in foreign countries. We derived approximately 40% of total revenues in fiscal 2009 from sales to customers outside the United States, including approximately 23% from sales in Canada by our Canadian subsidiary and 16% from sales in China. Foreign sales are subject to numerous risks, including currency conversion risks, limitations (including taxes) on the repatriation of earnings, slower and more difficult accounts receivable collection and greater complication and expense in complying with foreign laws. Our sales of granite blocks to foreign countries are primarily for building use and are subject to various cyclical factors in foreign countries, foreign exchange rate fluctuations, policies of foreign governments and numerous other factors over which we have no control. While we continue to develop sales to customers in other countries, we cannot assure you that sales of granite blocks to our Chinese and other foreign customers will remain at historic levels. Employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may adversely affect our operations. Our business is labor intensive, and our workforce includes, among other employees, highly skilled quarrying and manufacturing personnel such as stone cutters, sand blasters, sculptors and other skilled artisans. Approximately 60% of our workforce is unionized. Strikes or labor disputes with our unionized employees may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. If we lose key personnel, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, our business could suffer. Our operations and the implementation of our strategies to enhance overall Company profitability are management intensive. We are substantially dependent upon the abilities and continued efforts of our senior management. Our business is also dependent on our ability to continue to attract and retain a highly skilled quarry and manufacturing workforce, including stone cutters, sand blasters, sculptors and other skilled artisans. The loss of the services of our senior management or other highly skilled personnel could adversely affect our business and operating results. We face intense competition and, if we are unable to compete successfully, we may be unable to increase our sales, which would adversely affect our business and profitability. The dimension stone industry is highly competitive. We compete with other dimension stone quarriers, including quarriers of granite, marble, limestone, travertine and other natural stones. We also compete with manufacturers of so-called "engineered stone" as well as manufacturers of other building materials like concrete, aluminum, glass, wood and other materials. We compete with providers of these materials on the basis of price, availability of supply, end-user preference for certain colors, patterns or textures, and other factors. The granite memorial industry is also highly competitive. We compete with other granite quarriers and manufacturers in the sale of granite blocks for memorial use on the basis of price, color, quality, geographic proximity, service, design availability, production capability, and delivery options. All of our colors of granite are subject to competition from memorial grade granite blocks of similar color supplied by quarriers located throughout the world. There are approximately 130 manufacturers of granite memorials in North America. There are also manufacturers of granite memorials in India, South Africa, China and Portugal that sell finished memorials in North America. Our quarrying and manufacturing competitors include both domestic and international companies, some of which may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and other resources. Foreign competitors may have access to lower cost labor and better commercial deposits of granite, and may be subject to less restrictive regulatory requirements. We cannot assure you domestic or foreign competition will not adversely impact our business. The increasing trend toward cremation, and potential declines in memorialization for other reasons, may result in decreased sales of our products. There is an increasing trend toward cremation in the United States. The latest statistics from the Cremation Association of North America, or CANA, indicate cremation was used in approximately 37% of the deaths in the United States in 2009, compared to approximately 29% in 2003. To the extent increases in cremation rates result in decreases in memorialization rates, this decrease will result in a decline in our memorial sales, which will adversely affect our business and results of operations. 11 Our business is also subject to the risk that memorialization rates may decline over time for other reasons. Certain cemeteries have in the past and may in the future limit the use of granite memorials as a memorialization option. To the extent general memorialization rates or the willingness of cemeteries to accept granite memorials declines, this decline could adversely affect our business. Sales of our products are seasonal and may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. Historically, our operations have experienced certain seasonal patterns. Generally, our net sales are highest in the second or third quarter and lowest in the first quarter of each year due primarily to weather. Cemeteries in northern regions generally do not accept granite memorials during winter months when the ground is frozen because they cannot be properly set. We typically close our Vermont and Canadian quarries from January to late March because of increased operating costs attributable to weather conditions. We have historically incurred an aggregate net loss during the first three months of each calendar year. Our operating results may vary materially from quarter to quarter due to, among other things, changes in product mix, shipping conditions and limitations on the timing of price increases, making quarterly year-to-year comparisons less meaningful. Our competitive position could be harmed if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights. We believe our tradenames, trademarks, brands, designs and other intellectual property are of great value, and we rely on trademark, copyright and other proprietary rights laws to protect our rights to this valuable intellectual property. Third parties may, in the future, try to challenge our ownership of our intellectual property. In addition, our business is subject to the risk of third parties counterfeiting our products or infringing on our intellectual property rights. We may need to resort to litigation in the future to protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights, most notably the Rock of Ages trademark, could have a serious adverse effect on our business and competitive position. Sales of our ancillary products are cyclical, which may adversely affect our operating results. The markets for our industrial precision products, which include machine base and surface plates that are utilized in the automotive, aeronautic, computer, machine tool, optical, precision grinding and inspection industries, and granite press rolls used in the manufacture of paper, are subject to substantial cyclical variations. Sales of these products are subject to decline as a result of general economic downturns, or as a result of uncertainties regarding current and future economic conditions that generally affect such industries. We cannot assure you changes in the industries to which we sell our precision products will not adversely affect our operating results. Existing stockholders are able to exercise significant control over us. Kurt M. Swenson and his brother, Kevin C. Swenson, collectively have 66% of the total voting power of all outstanding shares of our common stock, and will therefore be in a position to control the outcome of most corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of transactions involving a change in control of the Company. Our common stock is thinly traded; therefore, our stock price may fluctuate more than the stock market as a whole. Although our shares are traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market, our stock is thinly traded. As a result, its market price may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole or the stock prices of similar companies. Without a larger float, our common stock will be less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, and as a result, the trading prices for our common stock may be more volatile. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price than would be the case if the public float were larger. We may incur substantial costs to comply with government regulations. Our quarry and manufacturing operations are subject to substantial regulation under federal, state and foreign governmental statutes and by federal, state and foreign governmental agencies, including the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Mine Safety and Health Administration and similar state and Canadian authorities. Our operations are also subject to extensive laws and regulations administered by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and similar state and Canadian authorities, for the protection of the environment, including but not limited to those relating to air and water quality, and solid and hazardous waste handling and disposal. These laws and regulations may require parties to fund remedial action or to pay damages regardless of fault. Environmental laws and regulations may also impose liability with respect to divested or terminated operations even if the operations were divested or terminated many years ago. In addition, current and future environmental or occupational health and safety laws, regulations or regulatory interpretations may require significant expenditures for compliance, which could require us to modify or curtail our operations. We cannot predict the effect of such laws, regulations or regulatory interpretations on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any material non-compliance could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 12 Provisions of our corporate organizational documents could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, even if it would be beneficial to our stockholders. Certain provisions contained in our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws: grant ten votes per share to each share of Class B Common Stock; divide the Board of Directors into three classes, each of which will have a different three-year term; provide that stockholders may remove directors from office only for cause and by a supermajority vote; provide that special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Board of Directors or certain Company officers and not by stockholders; establish certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for stockholder proposals to be considered at annual stockholders' meetings; authorize the issuance of preferred stock. Accordingly, the Board of Directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could materially adversely affect the voting power or other rights of, or be dilutive to, the holders of our Common Stock. Certain of these provisions may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control or unsolicited acquisition proposals a stockholder may consider favorable. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 