RISK FACTORS Our future financial condition, results of operations and business could be materially affected by the risks and uncertainties discussed below, or otherwise, and historic trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods: Risks Related to our Industry WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO GET TIMELY REGULATORY APPROVAL FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND WE MUST COMPLY WITH REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS TO MANUFACTURE AND MARKET OUR PRODUCTS. The manufacturing and marketing of our existing and potential products, as well as preclinical studies and clinical trials, are subject to extensive regulation and approval by the Therapeutic Products Directorate (“TPD”) of the Health Products and Food Branch Inspectorate of Health Canada (“HPFBI”) and other authorities in Canada and by numerous federal, state and local government authorities in the United States, including the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). Similar regulatory requirements exist in Europe and other countries. To the extent we choose to distribute our products in foreign markets, we may rely on licensees to obtain regulatory approvals in such countries. Any failure or delay by us, our collaborators or licensees to comply with applicable requirements or obtain regulatory approvals for our products could adversely affect the marketing of products developed or licensed by us and our ability to receive product or royalty revenue. As of December 31, 2005, DRAXIMAGE had five regulatory submissions filed with European regulatory authorities: four with the Medicines Evaluation Board in the Netherlands and one with the Danish Medicines Agency. The submission dates for these radiopharmaceutical products range from June 2003 to December 2004. All of the approvals sought by DRAXIMAGE in Europe are for marketing authorizations through the mutual recognition procedure, which involves obtaining approval in one state (the “reference member state”) and recognition of that approval in other member states. All of the approvals being sought by DRAXIMAGE in Europe are for radiopharmaceutical products already approved in Canada or the U.S. One of these five European submissions was for DRAXIMAGE’s kit for the Preparation of Technetium Tc-99m Albumin Aggregated Injection (MAA Kit) for which DRAXIMAGE received approval in one reference member state, the Netherlands, in February 2005. The regulatory process for innovative products generally involves preclinical studies and clinical trials of each compound to establish its safety and efficacy, takes many years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. For generic products, the regulatory process does not typically involve clinical studies. Moreover, if regulatory approval of a drug or diagnostic product is granted, such approval may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which it may be marketed. Our failure to 3 comply with applicable regulatory requirements can, among other things, result in the suspension of our regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Further, government policy may change and additional government regulations may be established that could prevent or delay regulatory approvals for our products. In addition, a marketed drug and its manufacturer are subject to continual review. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with the product or manufacturer may result in restrictions on such product or manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. DRAXIMAGE manufactures approximately 65% of the active pharmaceutical ingredients that are used in the radiopharmaceutical products it manufactures. The final products in which the active pharmaceutical ingredients are used are subject to regulation for safety and efficacy by the FDA, TPD and regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions, as the case may be. Final products must be approved by the FDA, TPD and the regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions, as the case may be, before they can be commercially marketed. The process of obtaining regulatory clearance for marketing is uncertain, costly and time-consuming. We cannot predict how long the necessary regulatory approvals will take or whether we or our customers for whom we manufacture products will ever obtain such approval for products. To the extent that we and/or our customers do not obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for marketing new products, our product sales could be adversely affected. All products manufactured by us (including those manufactured for our contract manufacturing customers) will have to comply with the current Good Manufacturing Practices (“cGMP”) imposed under the laws of the U.S., Canada and other jurisdictions, as well as the guidelines and policies of TPD, FDA and the regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions, as the case may be. In addition, products containing radioactive isotopes will have to comply with the guidelines and regulations of the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission in Canada and the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission and other similar regulations in other countries. Compliance with cGMP regulations requires us to expend time, money and effort on our production facilities and to maintain precise and extensive records and quality control to ensure that our products meet applicable specifications and other requirements. The FDA, TPD and other regulators may periodically inspect our drug manufacturing facilities to ensure compliance with applicable cGMP requirements. In addition, our customers also periodically inspect our manufacturing facilities to ascertain compliance with cGMP requirements. If we fail to comply with the cGMP requirements, we may become subject to possible regulatory action, and manufacturing at the facility could consequently be suspended, causing possible loss of profit, regulatory fines and third-party liability. To date we have not been subject to any notice of material non-compliance. The FDA, TPD or other regulatory authorities may also require us to submit lots of a particular product for inspection. If the product lot fails to meet applicable requirements, then the following actions might be taken: (i) restrict the release of the product; (ii) suspend manufacturing of the specific product lot; (iii) order a recall of the product lot; or (iv) order a seizure of the product lot. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AND ENFORCE EFFECTIVE PATENTS TO PROTECT OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS FROM USE BY COMPETITORS, AND THE PATENTS OF OTHER PARTIES COULD REQUIRE US TO STOP USING OR TO ACQUIRE A LICENSE FOR CONDUCTING CERTAIN BUSINESS ACTIVITIES, AND OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION AND PROFITABILITY COULD SUFFER AS A RESULT. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain, enforce and maintain patent protection for our radiopharmaceutical and ANIPRYL® technologies in Canada, the United States and other countries. Patents for our radiopharmaceutical technologies have expiry dates ranging from October 2006 to July 2023. Patents issued to our subsidiary DAHI for our ANIPRYL® technology, have expiry dates ranging from August 2010 to June 2016. We cannot assure you that patents will be issued from any 4 pending applications or that claims now or in the future, if any, allowed under issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, we cannot assure you that any patents issued to or licensed by us will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or that the rights granted under these patents will provide a continuing competitive advantages to us. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms, including ours, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. In addition, we do not know whether any of our current research endeavors will result in the issuance of patents in Canada, the United States or elsewhere, or if any patents already issued will provide significant proprietary protection or will be circumvented or invalidated. Since patent applications in the United States and Canada are maintained in secrecy for at least 18 months from the date of filing, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we will be the first to create inventions claimed by pending patent applications or that we will be the first to file patent applications for such inventions. Our failure to obtain patents for our products could negatively affect our competitive position. Our commercial success will also depend in part on our not infringing patents or proprietary rights of others and not breaching the licenses granted to us. In the event that we are found to have infringed other parties’ patents, licenses may not be available to us on terms that are favorable or at all. In addition, the degree of patent protection afforded to pharmaceutical or biotechnological inventions around the world is uncertain and varies significantly among different countries. There can be no assurance that we will be able to license third-party technology or patents that we may require to conduct our business or that such technology or patents can be licensed at a reasonable cost. Failure by us or our collaborators or customers to license any technology or patents that we may need to commercialize our technologies or manufacture our products may result in delays in marketing our products or may impede our inability to proceed with the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses. We may be required to engage in litigation and other patent proceedings to enforce patents issued to us, to defend our right, title and interest in patents related to our products and to determine the scope and ‘validity of other parties’ proprietary rights. These proceedings can be costly, and if the outcome of any such proceedings is adverse to us, we could lose the right to sell some of our products or could be required to pay damages. We also rely on unpatented trade secrets, improvements and know-how with respect to our contract manufacturing operations and all of our operations associated with our radiopharmaceutical kit business to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our customers, collaborators, employees and consultants. These agreements could be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Further, our trade secrets could otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. ALTHOUGH WE CARRY PRODUCT LIABILITY INSURANCE, A SUCCESSFUL LIABILITY CLAIM COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. We may be subject to liability claims by those who purchase our contract manufacturing services, for the use of any of our products under clinical development and the sale and use of any of our approved products. Such claims might be made directly by customers, consumers, healthcare providers or pharmaceutical companies or others selling such products. Although we believe that our insurance coverage is reasonably adequate to insulate us from potential product liability claims and we have not historically experienced any problems associated with claims by those who purchase our contract manufacturing services or users of our products under development or that we manufacture, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to this potential liability. We might not be able to 5 maintain or obtain additional commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing and sale. Even unsuccessful product liability claims could result in the expenditure of funds in litigation and the diversion of management time and resources and could damage our reputation and impair the marketability of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. On July 22, 2005, we announced that, together with other defendants, we had received a Statement of Claim filed before the Superior Court of Justice of Ontario alleging that PermaxÒ, a drug that we distributed in Canada for a third party manufacturer prior to July 2003, causes “compulsive/obsessive behaviour, including pathological gambling”. The plaintiff is seeking to have this action certified as a class action. We believe this claim against us is without merit and we intend to vigorously defend this proceeding and any motion for certification. Prior to July 2003, PermaxÒ was distributed in Canada by DRAXIS Pharmaceutica, our Canadian pharmaceutical sales and marketing division. In July 2003, we sold the DRAXIS Pharmaceutica division to Shire BioChem Inc. (“Shire”). IF THE MARKET DOES NOT ACCEPT OUR PRODUCTS CURRENTLY IN DEVELOPMENT, OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED. There can be no assurance that any of our products currently in development or our recently approved products will achieve market acceptance. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including the receipt of regulatory approvals (generic and innovative products), the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the clinical efficacy and safety of our products (innovative products), the establishment and demonstration of their potential advantages to existing and new diagnostic and treatment methods and the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers and most importantly, the launching of competing products by our competitors that become established prior to the launch of our products in development. There can be no assurance that physicians, patients, payers or the medical community in general will accept and utilize any existing or future products. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new products enter the market and advanced technologies become available. There can be no assurance that existing products or new products developed by our competitors will not be more effective, or be more effectively marketed and sold, than any of the products that may be developed, manufactured or sold by us. Competitive products may render our products obsolete and uncompetitive prior to recovering our research, development or commercialization expenses incurred with respect to any such products. For example, in a press release dated March 27, 2006, we announced that although our product FIBRIMAGEÒ had met primary end points in its Phase III clinical trial in Canada, further market analysis had shown that new technologies have successfully captured the current deep venous thrombosis indications and there is no longer an economically interesting market opportunity at this time in either the at-risk asymptomatic patient, or those with symptoms. We further indicated that we had decided that no significant further work will be conducted in the development of this product for its current indications but that other potential opportunities for this product would be explored. We currently have other products in development that could be exposed to this risk. With respect to our radiopharmaceutical operations, we believe that the only radiopharmaceutical imaging products on the market at this time which may compete with DRAXIMAGE’s INFECTON® product under clinical development (Phase II in Canada, U.S. and U.K.) are NeutroSpec® and LeukoScan®. In July 2004, Mallinckrodt (a business unit of Tyco Healthcare) and Palatin Technologies, Inc. (“Palatin”) announced that they had received FDA approval to market and 6 manufacture NeutroSpec® (formerly known as LeuTech®), a Technetium-labeled monoclonal antibody that binds to white blood cells and is indicated for diagnosing difficult-to-diagnose appendicitis, which will compete with our INFECTON® product currently in Phase II development. On December 19, 2005, Palatin announced that, as a result of the safety concerns raised in connection with the use of NeutroSpec® identified during routine pharmacovigilance, Palatin and Mallinckrodt decided to voluntarily suspend the sales, marketing and distribution of NeutroSpec® and recall existing customer inventories of this product. In addition, Immunomedics, Inc. announced in January 2005 that it received Health Canada approval for the marketing and use of LeukoScan® for the detection of osteomyelitis. LeukoScan® is a murine monoclonal IgG antibody fab’ fragment labeled with Tc-99m. We believe that INFECTON® will be capable of distinguishing inflammation from infection and as such would offer an advantage over agents that bind to white blood cells and which cannot distinguish between infection and inflammation. To our knowledge, there are two approved somatostatin-based imaging products in the marketplace which may compete with our SOMATOSCAN® product currently in pre-clinical development: OctreoScan® from Tyco International Ltd. and NeoTect® from Berlex Laboratories Inc. Both of these molecules offer similar information but OctreoScan® is based on Indium-111 and is more expensive than Tc-99m-based NeoTect® and must be delivered in radioactive form. We are aware that development work is also being done on other somatostatin-based cancer therapy products that would compete with Somatostatin Therapy. We believe that by enabling the same molecule to be used for both diagnosis and therapy, physicians may have a greater ability to deliver therapeutic quantities of radiation specifically to well-defined targets in the body with our product. With respect to our licensed technology, no significant competition for ANIPRYL® has been experienced to date in Canada or the United States from products approved for veterinary or human use. However, there are other treatments available that have not been approved in Canada or the United States to treat canine Cushing’s disease, but which we believe may be being used off-label for canine Cushing’s disease: LYSODREN® (mitotane) by Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., which was approved for use in the treatment of human inoperable cancer of the adrenal gland, and NIZORAL® (ketoconazote) tablets by Johnson & Johnson Inc., an anti-fungal medication, which was approved for the treatment of various internal and external fungal and yeast infections in humans. We believe that human use selegiline used for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease, although not approved for veterinary use, may also compete with the use of ANIPRYL® in dogs. WE DO NOT HAVE THE SAME AMOUNT OF RESOURCES AS SOME OF OUR COMPETITORS. Many of our existing or potential competitors, particularly large pharmaceutical companies, have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do. In addition, many of these competitors have significantly greater experience in undertaking research, preclinical studies and human clinical trials of new pharmaceutical products, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing such products. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in commercializing products more rapidly or effectively than us. WE OPERATE IN A VERY COMPETITIVE MARKET. DRAXIS Pharma, our contracting manufacturing division, competes with pharmaceutical companies that have in-house manufacturing capabilities as well as with third-party contract manufacturers, including Hospira Inc., Boehringer Ingelheim, Cardinal Health, Inc., DPT Laboratories, Haupt Pharma AG, Patheon Inc., Hollister-Stier Laboratories LLC and DSM Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 7 DRAXIMAGE, our radiopharmaceuticals division, competes with the following companies that have significant radiopharmaceutical operations: Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Cardinal Health, Inc., Amersham Health, part of GE Healthcare (“GE Amersham Healthcare”), Tyco International Ltd., Schering AG, and Bracco SpA. In addition, there are a number of companies that are developing and/or marketing other radiopharmaceutical products, including MDS Nordion Inc., Immunomedics, Inc., Biogen Idec Inc. and NeoRx Corporation. FAILURE OF ONE OF OUR CURRENT OR FUTURE CLINICAL TRIALS COULD HAVE A MATERIALLY NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR FUTURE PROSPECTS. The development of new products is subject to a number of significant risks. Potential products that appear to be promising in various stages of development may not reach the market for a number of reasons. Such reasons include, but are not limited to, the possibility that the potential product will be found ineffective or unduly toxic during preclinical or clinical trials, fails to receive necessary regulatory approvals, be difficult to manufacture on a large scale, be uneconomical to market or not achieve market acceptance, or be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties. Certain products we are attempting to develop have never been manufactured on a commercial scale, and there can be no assurance that such products can be manufactured at a cost or in a quantity to render such products commercially viable. Production of such products may require the development of new manufacturing technologies and expertise. The impact on our business in the event that new manufacturing technologies and expertise would have to be developed is uncertain. Many of our potential products will require significant additional research and development efforts and significant additional preclinical and clinical testing prior to any commercial use. There can be no assurance that we will successfully meet any of these technological challenges or others that may arise in the course of product development. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any innovative product under development, we must demonstrate through preclinical studies and clinical trials that the product is safe and efficacious. As of March 31, 2006, our INFECTONÒ product is in Phase II trials in Canada, the U.S. and the U.K. The results of preclinical studies and early-stage clinical trials may not be totally predictive of results obtained in larger late-stage clinical trials, and there can be no assurance that our clinical trials will demonstrate safety and efficacy, achieve regulatory approvals or result in marketable products. A number of companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier clinical trials. OUR PROFIT DEPENDS IN PART ON REIMBURSEMENT POLICIES AND REGULATIONS OF GOVERNMENT HEALTH ADMINISTRATION AUTHORITIES, PRIVATE HEALTH INSURERS AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS. The business and financial condition of pharmaceutical companies will continue to be affected by the efforts of governments and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare through various means. For example, in certain markets, pricing or profitability of pharmaceutical products, medical devices and diagnostic products is subject to government control. In Canada, the Patented Medicine Prices Review Board (“PMPRB”) monitors and controls prices of patented drug products marketed in Canada. The PMPRB may assert jurisdiction over our products under development which may limit the prices that can be charged for such products in Canada. We may not be able to obtain prices for our products under development that will make them commercially viable exclusively in Canada. In the United States there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar pricing controls by government. In addition, the emphasis on managed healthcare in the United States has increased and will continue to increase the 8 pressure on pharmaceutical pricing. While we cannot predict whether such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted or the effects such proposals or managed healthcare efforts may have on our business, the announcement of such proposals or efforts could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our securities and, if adopted, on our business and financial condition and that of our current and prospective customers. Accordingly, our ability to establish strategic alliances may be adversely affected. In addition, in Canada, the United States and elsewhere, sales of prescription pharmaceutical products and radiopharmaceutical products are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third-party payers, such as government and private insurance plans. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. To the extent we succeed in bringing new products to market, there can be no assurance that these products will be considered cost-effective and that reimbursement to consumers will be available or will be sufficient to allow the sale of these products on a competitive basis. Risks Related to our Company WE ONLY HAVE ONE MANUFACTURING FACILITY AND FACTORS BEYOND OUR CONTROL COULD CAUSE AN INTERRUPTION IN OUR MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS, WHICH WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR REPUTATION IN THE MARKETPLACE AND OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. All of our manufacturing facilities are located in the same location in Kirkland, Québec. To succeed, we must be able to operate our manufacturing facilities without significant interruption and deliver radiopharmaceutical and contract manufacturing products in a timely manner. We could suffer an interruption in our manufacturing operations caused by damage from a variety of sources, many of which are not within our control, including fire, flood, earthquake and other natural disasters; power loss and telecommunication failure; disruption to transportation systems; equipment or machinery failure; software and hardware errors, failures or crashes and similar disruptions; or undue delays or restrictions with air transport systems and cross-border shipments. Any significant interruptions in our manufacturing operations or our ability to deliver time-sensitive products would damage our reputation in the marketplace and have a negative impact on our results of operations. For example, during the third quarter of 2005, DRAXIS Pharma, our contract manufacturing operating division, extended its regularly scheduled summer shutdown period at the beginning of the third quarter in the sterile area of our manufacturing facility, in order to correct an electrical panel failure and make associated repairs. The revalidation of the entire sterile area following these repairs and the related recalibration of production schedules due to this interruption had material financial implications which negatively affected our third and fourth quarter results. As a further example, if there was a cessation of flights leaving Canada for the U.S., then the radiopharmaceutical products manufactured by DRAXIMAGE, which are delivered in part via airplanes, could not be delivered to customers on a timely basis and our products would be harmed due to their short shelf-life. Also, if there was a prolonged loss of hydroelectric power at our manufacturing facility, then the manufacturing of our products may be impaired because we may not have sufficient back-up electrical power from independent generators for the duration of the hydroelectric interruption. Although we believe that we carry adequate property and business interruption insurance, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against all potential eventualities. IF OUR COLLABORATIVE AND COMMERCIAL RELATIONSHIPS WITH THIRD PARTIES ON WHOM WE RELY ARE UNSUCCESSFUL, OUR BUSINESS MAY SUFFER. To be successful, we must continually establish and maintain strategic relationships with leaders in a number of biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry segments. This is critical to our success because such relationships enable us to extend the reach of our products and sales in various 9 jurisdictions, generate additional revenue and develop and deploy new products in various marketplaces. Entering into strategic relationships is complicated, as some of our current and future strategic partners may decide to compete with us in some or all of the markets in which we operate or refuse to fulfill or honor their contractual obligations to us. In addition, our relationships with customers always require us to manufacture products in accordance with their specifications that are issued to us from time to time. If we are unable to meet our customers’ specifications, our strategic relationships would be harmed. We currently have strategic relationships with (i) Pfizer Consumer Healthcare, a division of Pfizer Canada, Inc. (“Pfizer Canada”), that covers several non-prescription products for the Canadian market, including Polysporin®, Sudafed®, Actifed® and Zincofax®, (ii) Genzyme Corporation (“Genzyme”) to manufacture Hectorol® Injection, (iii) GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (“GSK”) to supply it with established sterile products marketed by GSK in multiple international markets and a prescription sterile injectable product for the U.S. market and (iv) Cardinal Health 414, Inc. in respect of our Iodine I-131 kits, MAA, DTPA and MDP products sold in the U.S. A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR BUSINESS IS DEPENDENT ON A SMALL NUMBER OF KEY CUSTOMERS. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our three largest customers, Genzyme, GSK and Pfizer Canada, represented 58% of our consolidated revenues (23%, 22% and 13% respectively). The termination by any of these customers of its relationship with us would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations unless we could replace those customers in a timely fashion. IF OUR COLLABORATORS, EMPLOYEES, OR CONSULTANTS DISCLOSE OUR CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION TO OTHERS DESPITE CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS IN PLACE, OUR BUSINESS MAY SUFFER. Our practice is to require our employees, collaborators, consultants and outside scientific advisors to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment or consulting relationships. These agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual’s relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties, subject to certain specific limited exceptions. In the case of employees, the agreements provide that all inventions conceived by the individual shall be our exclusive property. These agreements, however, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. For example, trade secrets regarding the recipe to manufacture one of our radiopharmaceutical kit or capsule products could be disclosed, allowing our competitors to copy the recipe and manufacture a competing product. WE ARE SUBJECT TO REGULATION BY GOVERNMENTS IN MANY JURISDICTIONS AND, IF WE DO NOT COMPLY WITH MANUFACTURING, NUCLEAR SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS, OUR EXISTING AND FUTURE OPERATIONS MAY BE CURTAILED, AND WE COULD BE SUBJECT TO LIABILITY. Pharmaceutical drug manufacturing is a highly regulated industry, requiring significant documentation and validation of manufacturing processes and quality control assurance prior to approval of the facility to manufacture a specific drug. There can be considerable transition time between the initiation of a contract to manufacture a product and the actual initiation of manufacture of that product. Any lag time in the initiation of a contract to manufacture a product and the actual initiation of the manufacturing at our facilities could cause us to lose profits. We have in place facilities and procedures designed to reduce and, to the extent possible, 10 eliminate the risk of environmental contamination resulting from the processing of raw materials and, more specifically, from the radiopharmaceutical business of DRAXIMAGE and the contract manufacturing business of DRAXIS Pharma. We also have in place regular maintenance programs to ensure continued compliance with all applicable health and safety, environmental and nuclear safety regulations. We believe that the operations at our manufacturing facilities comply in all material respects with applicable health and safety, environmental and nuclear safety laws. As of December 31, 2005, we have not received any notice stating that we are not in compliance with any such legislation applicable to us. Canadian and U.S. federal, state, local and provincial regulations govern extensively the use, manufacture, storage, handling, transport and disposal of hazardous material and associated waste products. Although we believe that the operations at our facilities comply in all material respects with applicable laws, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of substantial environmental liabilities especially in respect of environmental contamination resulting from the processing of raw materials from the radiopharmaceutical business of DRAXIMAGE and the manufacturing business of DRAXIS Pharma. Any failure by us or any of our subsidiaries to comply with such present or future laws could result in any of the following: (i) cessation of portions or all of our or our subsidiaries’ operations; (ii) imposition of fines; (iii) restrictions on our or our subsidiaries’ ability to carry on or expand our operations; (iv) significant expenditures by us in order to comply with laws and regulations; or (v) liabilities in excess of our resources. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED IF THERE WERE A DISPUTE OR DISRUPTION WITH OUR UNIONIZED EMPLOYEES. The products manufactured by DRAXIS Pharma represent a significant amount of our consolidated revenues. 68.9% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 were derived from DRAXIS Pharma. Although a collective agreement with a five-year term to April 30, 2008 was ratified, by DRAXIS Pharma, in February 2004 with the United Food & Commercial Workers International Union, Local 291 (AFL-CIO), there can be no assurance that future labor difficulties will not arise, and if they did arise then the production and delivery of those products manufactured by DRAXIS Pharma would be impaired for the duration of those labor difficulties. OUR FUTURE SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO GROW, AND IF WE ARE UNABLE TO MANAGE OUR GROWTH EFFECTIVELY, WE MAY INCUR UNEXPECTED EXPENSES AND BE UNABLE TO MEET OUR CUSTOMERS’ REQUIREMENTS. We will need to maintain, expand and upgrade our manufacturing facilities and operations to execute current commercial obligations to customers, widen our customer base and increase manufacturing efficiencies over the next few years. We cannot be certain that DRAXIS Pharma will be able to enter into enough lucrative third-party manufacturing contracts to increase its profitability. If we do secure advantageous agreements, we cannot be certain that our employees, systems, procedures, controls, productive capacity and existing space will be adequate to support expansion of the operations. Our future operating results will depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to manage changing business conditions and to implement and improve our technical, administrative, financial control and reporting systems and operational excellence in order to achieve established business objectives. An unexpectedly large increase in the volume of manufacturing business or the number of orders placed by customers may require us to expand capacity and further upgrade our manufacturing facilities and the technology related to our manufacturing. We may not be able to project the rate of timing of such increases or customer demands accurately or to expand and upgrade our manufacturing facilities and supporting systems and infrastructure to accommodate such increases. Difficulties in managing future growth and meeting customers’ expanded requirements could have a significant negative 11 impact on our business and its profitability. OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE, AND OUR FUTURE REVENUE AND PROFITABILITY ARE UNCERTAIN. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability in the foreseeable future depends on the commercial success of our products and services. Because we will be launching or are in the process of launching new products in new markets such as our Sodium Iodide I-131 Capsules USP, Diagnostic-Oral in the U.S., revenues are difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from period to period. In addition, product development programs will require substantial additional investment, including the cost of clinical trials for innovative products, obtaining additional regulatory approvals, if necessary, and marketing and sales expenses associated with potential new product introductions. Our manufacturing facilities will continue to require capital investment in order to maintain, upgrade and expand their operations. The success of DRAXIMAGE and DRAXIS Pharma will rely significantly on the ability of both divisions to maintain and to increase substantially their manufacturing capabilities to satisfy customer demand. There can be no assurance that, or when, we will successfully develop, receive regulatory approvals for, or manufacture or market any new products for our own marketing purposes or for third parties. DRAXIS Pharma may fail to secure sufficiently lucrative third-party manufacturing contracts to increase its profitability. In addition, DRAXIS Pharma may lose anticipated volumes of new products if the customers for whom it manufactures said products do not receive required approvals for the commercial sale of same. DRAXIS Pharma may also lose anticipated volumes of existing products if its customers lose market share for products due to decreased demand for said products. DRAXIMAGE may fail to increase its market penetration of its radioactive products, particularly in the U.S. DRAXIMAGE may also fail to increase its international sales of its key Tc-99m kits and Iodine I-131 products, particularly in Europe. The research, development, production and marketing of new products will require the application of considerable technical and financial resources by us and our customers, while revenues that are generated by such products, if successfully developed and marketed, may not be realized for several years. We may not be able to sustain profitability. We may require external financing to complete certain aspects of our three-year strategic plan, and external sources of capital may not be available to us at an acceptable cost. IF WE CANNOT ADAPT TO CHANGING TECHNOLOGIES, OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES MAY BECOME OBSOLETE AND OUR BUSINESS COULD SUFFER. Because the biotechnology, pharmaceutical and radiopharmaceutical industry is characterized by technology change and obsolescence, we may be unable to anticipate changes in our current and potential customer requirements that could make our existing technology obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to enhance our existing products and services, develop new technology that addresses the increasing sophistication and varied needs of our respective customers, license leading technologies and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a timely and cost-effective basis. The development of our proprietary technology and investing in certain niche markets entails significant technical and business risks. We may not be successful in using our new technologies or exploiting our niche markets effectively or adapting our businesses to evolving customer requirements or emerging industry standards. WE ARE EXPOSED TO EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS WHICH COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. A substantial portion of our consolidated revenues are now, and are expected to continue to be, realized in U.S. dollars. Our operating expenses are primarily paid in Canadian dollars. We may be adversely affected by a significant and rapid strengthening of the Canadian dollar against the U.S. 12 dollar, should the Canadian dollar rise in value compared to the U.S. dollar by more than 10 cents. We do not currently use derivative instruments to hedge our foreign exchange risk and currently have no plans to do so in the near future. For fiscal year 2005, U.S. dollar revenue accounted for approximately 50% of the Company’s consolidated revenue. During this same period, the value of the U.S. dollar versus the Canadian dollar decreased by 3.5% from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2005. As a result, in 2005 we had to charge to income approximately $398,000 due to foreign exchange translation losses related to the strengthening of the Canadian dollar. IF WE LOSE THE SERVICES OF KEY PERSONNEL, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO REPLACE THEM, AND OUR BUSINESS COULD BE NEGATIVELY AFFECTED. Our success depends on the retention of principal members of our management staff, including Dr. Martin Barkin, Mr. Dan Brazier, Mr. Jean-Pierre Robert and Mr. John Durham and on our ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain additional key personnel. We have employment agreements with all our key management, with no fixed terms of duration. We have key man insurance on the lives of Dr. Martin Barkin, Mr. Jean-Pierre Robert and Mr. John Durham. The market for retaining and obtaining such key personnel is intensely competitive, and the loss of the services of key personnel or the failure to recruit necessary replacement and additional personnel in a timely manner could materially and adversely affect operations. ALTHOUGH WE CONSIDER THE COMPANY TO HAVE GOOD DEFENSES TO SUCH ACTIONS, SHOULD THE CURRENT LAWSUITS AGAINST US SUCCEED, WE COULD INCUR A SUBSTANTIAL LOSS. In 1998, a Canadian legal proceeding was launched against us and our subsidiary DAHI by a former consultant, Jozsef Knoll, claiming royalty entitlements based on the net profit from sales of ANIPRYL®. Total damages claimed are $100 million, including a claim to certain shares of DAHI. However, the plaintiff has taken no steps in the last six years to move the claim forward. While we believe that we have good defenses to the Knoll proceeding, this dispute may not be resolved in our favor, if it is pursued. It is possible that a court or arbitration tribunal may find us to be in breach of certain agreements, or infringing validly issued patents of third parties or practicing the intellectual property of others. In that event, in addition to the cost of defending the underlying proceeding, we may have to pay license fees, additional royalties and/or damages and may be ordered to assign certain ANIPRYL®-related patents and be prohibited from conducting certain activities. Under such circumstances, we could incur substantial loss and our business could be negatively affected. On July 22, 2005, we announced that, together with other defendants, we had received a Statement of Claim filed before the Superior Court of Justice of Ontario alleging that PermaxÒ, a drug that we distributed in Canada for a third party manufacturer prior to July 2003, causes “compulsive/obsessive behaviour, including pathological gambling”. The plaintiff is seeking to have this action certified as a class action. We believe this claim against us is without merit and we intend to vigorously defend this proceeding and any motion for certification. Prior to July 2003, PermaxÒ was distributed in Canada by DRAXIS Pharmaceutica, our Canadian pharmaceutical sales and marketing division. In July 2003, we sold the DRAXIS Pharmaceutica division to Shire. Risks Related to our Common Shares OUR COMMON SHARE PRICE HAS BEEN, AND IS LIKELY TO CONTINUE TO BE, VOLATILE. The market prices for the securities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, 13 including ours, have historically been volatile, and the market has, from time to time, experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. For the last two years, the price of our stock has ranged from a low of $3.18, to a high of $5.94 on NASDAQ (CDN$4.12 to CDN$7.90 on the Toronto Stock Exchange). We believe that in 2005 the volatility in the share price and volumes of shares traded was impacted by financial results that differed from market expectations, particularly in the second half of the year as a result of the extended shutdown of production at DRAXIS Pharma for sterile products. We believe that in 2004 the appreciation in the share price and volumes of shares traded increased due to improvements in financial performance and increased visibility resulting from an equity offering of shares during the first half of 2004. Factors such as fluctuations in our operating results, announcements of competing technological innovations or new products by our competitors, clinical trial results, governmental regulation and enforcement actions, developments in patent or other proprietary rights, public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us or others and general market conditions can have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares. In particular, the realization of any of the risks described herein could have a material adverse impact on such market price. Unusual sales of substantial amounts of our shares in the public market over a relatively short time period, or the perception that such sales will occur, could also adversely affect the market price of our shares and make it more difficult in the future for us to raise funds through equity offerings. 14 