risk factors described in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). The Private Securities Reform Act of 1995 contains a safe harbor for forward-looking statements on which the Company relies in making such disclosures. In connection with the "safe harbor," we are hereby identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled "Risk Factors" under Item 3. - Key Information. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND CURRENCY PRESENTATION We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and publish our financial statements in United States Dollars. REFERENCES In this Annual Report, "China" refers to all parts of the People's Republic of China other than the Special Administrative Region of Hong Kong. The terms "Bonso," "we," "our," "us," and the "Company" refer to Bonso Electronics International Inc. and, where the context so requires or suggests, our direct and indirect subsidiaries. References to "dollars" or "$" are to United States Dollars, "HK$" are to Hong Kong Dollars, "Euros" or "(euro)" are to the European Monetary Union's Currency, "GPB" are to British Pounds, "RMB" are to Chinese Renminbi and "CDN" are to Canadian Dollars. 4 PART I Item 1. Identity of Directors, Senior Management and Advisors Not Applicable. Item 2. Offer Statistics and Expected Timetable Not Applicable. Item 3. Key Information The selected consolidated financial data as of March 31, 2007 and 2008 and for each of the three fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 are derived from the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements and notes which appear elsewhere in this Annual Report. The Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America and expressed in United States Dollars. The selected consolidated financial data set forth below as of March 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, and for each of the two fiscal years in the period ended March 31, 2005 have been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements that are not included in this Annual Report. The selected consolidated financial data is qualified in their entirety by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with, the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes and Item 5 - "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects" included in this Annual Report. 5 SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA Income Statement Data (in 000's USD except per shares and per share data) Year Ended March 31, ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2004 2005 2006 2007(1) 2008 (1) ----------- ----------- ----------- ---------- ----------- Net sales $ 74,964 $ 69,602 $ 64,543 $ 66,491 $ 62,687 Cost of sales (57,481) (53,138) (51,114) (53,946) (57,683) Gross margin 17,483 16,464 13,429 12,545 5,004 Selling expenses (3,122) (2,595) (2,111) (2,477) (2,480) Salaries and related costs (5,150) (5,216) (5,681) (5,438) (5,781) Research and development expenses (740) (710) (847) (983) (883) Administration and general expenses (5,439) (4,079) (3,421) (3,004) (4,638) Amortization of brand name (200) (200) (200) (200) (200) Impairment of goodwill -- -- (258) -- (843) Impairment of brand name -- -- -- -- (1,597) Impairment on share investment -- -- -- -- (200) Loss from water damage -- -- -- (701) -- Income (Loss) from operations 2,832 3,664 911 (258) (11,618) Interest income 57 81 202 313 203 Interest expense (500) (417) (504) (626) (693) Foreign exchange gain (loss) 15 (98) (184) (184) (216) Other income 225 372 190 302 3,440 Income (Loss) before income 2,629 3,602 615 (453) (8,884) taxes and minority interest Income tax (expense) benefit (402) (266) (131) (918) 334 Net (loss) income before 2,227 3,336 484 (1,371) (8,550) minority interest Minority interest 41 14 -- -- -- Net (loss) income 2,268 3,350 484 (1,371) (8,550) (Loss) earnings per share - Basic $ 0.40 $ 0.59 $ 0.09 ($ 0.25) ($ 1.53) - Diluted $ 0.37 $ 0.55 $ 0.08 ($ 0.25) ($ 1.53) Weighted average shares 5,702,015 5,646,676 5,577,639 5,577,639 5,577,639 Diluted weighted average shares 6,060,264 6,054,303 5,937,644 5,577,639 5,577,639 (1) The diluted net loss per share was the same as the basic net loss per share for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 as all potential ordinary shares including the stock options and warrants are anti-dilutive and therefore excluded from the computation of diluted net loss per share. 6 Balance Sheet Data (in 000's USD except per shares and per share data) March 31, --------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2004 2005 2006 (1) 2007 2008 ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- Cash and cash equivalents $10,815 $ 9,708 $ 8,582 $ 8,118 $10,195 Working capital $12,901 $15,345 $16,945 $16,842 $12,900 Total assets $53,598 $52,463 $49,479 $47,519 $41,786 Current liabilities $20,190 $18,319 $15,657 $16,394 $18,098 Long-term debts and capital $ 1,158 $ 168 $ 0 $ 59 $ 184 leases Deferred income tax assets $ 67 $ 99 $ 83 $ 87 $ 192 Common stock $ 17 $ 17 $ 17 $ 17 $ 17 Shareholders' equity $30,750 $33,932 $33,802 $31,051 $20,905 Dividends declared per share $ 0.05 $ 0.10 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0 (1) Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks, together with all other information included in this Annual Report. The realization of any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and future prospects. Political, Legal, Economic and Other Uncertainties of Operations in China and Hong Kong We Could Face Increased Currency Risks If China Does Not Maintain The Stability Of The Hong Kong Dollar or the Chinese Renminbi. The Hong Kong Dollar and the United States Dollar have been fixed at approximately 7.80 Hong Kong Dollars to 1.00 U.S. Dollar since 1983. From 1994 until July 2005, the Chinese Renminbi had remained stable against the U.S. Dollar at approximately 8.28 to 1.00 U.S. Dollar. On July 21, 2005, the Chinese currency regime was altered to link the RMB to a "basket of currencies," which includes the US dollar, Euro, Japanese Yen and Korean Won. Under the rules, the RMB is allowed to move 0.3% on a daily basis against the U.S. Dollar. The People's Bank of China, on May 21 2007, widened the RMB trading band from 0.3% daily movement against the U.S. Dollar to 0.5%. As of October 13, 2008, the RMB was valued at 6.83 per US Dollar. Any significant revaluation of the RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable to our common shareholders in U.S. Dollars. In addition, China's government continues to receive significant international pressure to further liberalize its currency policy and as a result may further change its currency policy. The Chinese government in the past has expressed its intention in the Basic Law to maintain the stability of the Hong Kong currency after the sovereignty of Hong Kong was transferred to China in July 1997. However, there can be no assurance that the Hong Kong Dollar will remain pegged against the U.S. Dollar or the Chinese Renminbi will not be allowed to fluctuate more than 0.5% on a daily basis. If the current exchange rate mechanism is changed, we face increased currency risks, which could have a material adverse effect upon the Company. 7 We Face Significant Risks If The Chinese Government Changes Its Policies, Laws, Regulations, Tax Structure, Or Its Current Interpretations Of Its Laws, Rules And Regulations Relating To Our Operations In China. Our manufacturing facility is located in China. As a result, our operations and assets are subject to significant political, economic, legal and other uncertainties. Changes in policies by the Chinese government resulting in changes in laws or regulations or the interpretation of laws or regulations, confiscatory taxation, changes in employment restrictions, restrictions on imports and sources of supply, import duties, corruption, currency revaluation or the expropriation of private enterprise could materially and adversely affect us. Over the past several years, the Chinese government has pursued economic reform policies including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue its present policies that encourage foreign investment and operations in China, or if these policies are either not successful or are significantly altered, then our business operations in China could be adversely affected. We could even be subject to the risk of nationalization, which could result in the total loss of investment in that country. Following the Chinese government's policy of privatizing many state-owned enterprises, the Chinese government has attempted to augment its revenues through increased tax collection. Continued efforts to increase tax revenues could result in increased taxation expenses being incurred by us. Economic development may be limited as well by the imposition of austerity measures intended to reduce inflation, the inadequate development of infrastructure and the potential unavailability of adequate power and water supplies, transportation and communications. If for any reason we were required to move our manufacturing operations outside of China, our profitability would be substantially impaired, our competitiveness and market position would be materially jeopardized and we might have to discontinue our operations. Our Results Will Likely Be Affected By The Recent Global Economic Downturn. In 2008, global economic conditions have experienced a downswing from the effects of the subprime mortgage crisis, general credit crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, volatile energy costs, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and adverse business conditions. These conditions make it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to forecast and plan future business activities or expansion accurately. They appear to have caused and may continue to cause companies worldwide to slow spending generally, and our customers to slow ordering and spending on our products specifically. If orders from our customers continue to shrink because of these macroeconomic effects, our business, financial condition and results of operations will in turn likely be materially and adversely affected. We cannot predict the timing or duration of the economic slowdown in the electronics manufacturing industry in which we serve. Therefore, management has focused on our strategy to improve production efficiencies, broaden our product range, and penetrate into new markets. We plan to concentrate on reducing overhead costs and improving resources utilization. These actions will increase our profitability and new products development to meet new requirements from customers. The economy of China has been experiencing significant growth, leading to some inflation. If the government tries to control inflation by traditional means of monetary policy or returns to planned economic techniques, our business will suffer a reduction in sales growth and expansion opportunities. The rapid growth of the PRC economy has historically resulted in high levels of inflation. 8 If the government tries to control inflation, it may have an adverse effect on the business climate and growth of private enterprise in the PRC. An economic slowdown may reduce our revenues. If inflation is allowed to proceed unchecked, our costs would likely increase, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to increase our prices to an extent that would offset the increase in our expenses. Changes to PRC tax laws and heightened efforts by the China's tax authorities to increase revenues are expected to subject us to greater taxes. Under prior PRC law, we have been afforded a number of tax concessions by, and tax refunds from, China's tax authorities on a substantial portion of our operations in China by reinvesting all or part of the profits attributable to our PRC manufacturing operations. On March 16, 2008, the National People's Congress approved the Corporate Income Tax Law of the People's Republic of China (the "new CIT Law"). The new CIT Law increases the corporate income tax rate for foreign invested enterprises to 25% with effect from January 1, 2009, which would likely increase our tax burden in the future. The new CIT Law provides that further detailed measures and regulations on the determination of taxable profit, tax incentives and grandfathering provisions will be issued by the State Council in due course. As and when the State Council announces the additional regulations, we will assess their impact, if any. Under the new income tax law, apart from those qualified as high-tech enterprises, most domestic enterprises and foreign invested enterprises would be subject to a single PRC enterprise income tax rate and gradually transition to the new tax rate of 25% within five years. We base our tax position upon the anticipated nature and conduct of our business and upon our understanding of the tax laws of the various countries in which we have assets or conduct activities. However, our tax position is subject to review and possible challenge by taxing authorities and to possible changes in law, which may have retroactive effect. We cannot determine in advance the extent to which some jurisdictions may require us to pay taxes or make payments in lieu of taxes. We Face Risks By Operating In China, Because The Chinese Legal System Relating To Foreign Investment And Foreign Operations Like Bonso's Is Evolving And The Application Of Chinese Laws Is Uncertain. The legal system of China relating to foreign investments is continually evolving, and there can be no certainty as to the application of its laws and regulations in particular instances. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. Legislation over the past 30 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. Enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be sporadic and implementation and interpretation of laws inconsistent. The Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing the laws that exist, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. Even where adequate law exists in China, it may not be possible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of that law. Further, various disputes may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the Chinese government, and forces and factors unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. Continued uncertainty relating to the laws in China and the application of the laws could have a material adverse effect upon us and our operations in China. 9 We Could Be Adversely Affected If China Changes Its Economic Policies In The Shenzhen Special Economic Zone Where We Operate. In August 1980, the Chinese government passed "Regulations for The Special Economy Zone of Guangdong Province" and officially designated a portion of Shenzhen as The Shenzhen Special Economy Zone. Foreign enterprises in these areas benefit from greater economic autonomy and special tax incentives than enterprises in other parts of China. Changes in the policies or laws governing The Shenzhen Special Economy Zone could have a material adverse effect on us. Moreover, economic reforms and growth in China have been more successful in certain provinces than others, and the continuation or increase of these disparities could affect the political or social stability of China, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our operations near Shenzhen. Controversies Affecting China's Trade With The United States Could Harm Our Results Of Operations Or Depress Our Stock Price. While China has been granted permanent most favored nation trade status in the United States through its entry into the World Trade Organization, controversies between the United States and China may arise that threaten the status quo involving trade between the United States and China. These controversies could materially and adversely affect our business by, among other things, causing our products in the United States to become more expensive resulting in a reduction in the demand for our products by customers in the United States, which would have a material adverse effect upon us and our results of operations. Further, political or trade friction between the United States and China, whether or not actually affecting our business, could also materially and adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares. If Our Sole Factory Were Destroyed Or Significantly Damaged As A Result of Fire, Flood Or Some Other Natural Disaster, We Would Be Adversely Affected. All of our products are manufactured at our manufacturing facility located in Shenzhen, China. Fire fighting and disaster relief or assistance in China may not be as developed as in Western countries. Apart from our China operation, the warehouse and storage facility in Germany and Canada are also subject to the risks of loss or damage due to fire, flood, or any other natural disaster. We currently maintain property damage insurance aggregating approximately $23.14 million covering our stock in trade, goods and merchandise, furniture and equipment and buildings. We do not maintain business interruption insurance. Investors are cautioned that material damage to, or the loss of, our factory due to fire, severe weather, flood or other act of God or cause, even if insured, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects. Our Results Could Be Harmed If We Have To Comply With New Environmental Regulations. Our operations create some environmentally sensitive waste that may increase in the future depending on the nature of our manufacturing operations. The general issue of the disposal of hazardous waste has received increasing attention from China's national and local governments and foreign governments and agencies and has been subject to increasing regulation. Our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected if we were to increase expenditures to comply with any new environmental regulations affecting our operations. Future Changes In The Labor Laws In China May Result In The Continued Increase In Labor Costs. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007 and 2008, we experienced an increase in the cost of labor caused by the increase in the 10 minimum hourly rate. Any future changes in the labor laws in the PRC could result in us having to pay increased labor costs. There can be no assurance that the labor laws will not change, which may have a material adverse effect upon our business and our results of operations. If we were to lose our existing banking facilities or those facilities were substantially decreased or less favorable terms were imposed upon us, the Company could be materially and adversely affected. We maintain banking facilities with a number of different banks, which are typically subject to renewal on an annual basis. Certain of our short-term bank loans (i.e., aggregating approximately US$20.9 million) were renewed subsequent to our fiscal year end. We have other banking facilities aggregating approximately US$6.0 million that we expect to renew in the coming months. We use our banking facilities to fund our working capital requirements. In recent months, the credit markets in Hong Kong and throughout the world have tightened and experienced extraordinary volatility and uncertainty. We have had discussion with several of our banks and believe that the availability of our banking facilities will continue on terms that are acceptable to us. However, as a result of changes in the capital or other legal requirements applicable to the banks that provide our banking facilities or if our financial position and operations were to deteriorate further, our costs of borrowing could increase or the terms of our banking facilities could be changed so as to impact our liquidity. If we are unable to obtain needed capital on terms acceptable to us, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business We Depend Upon Our Largest Customers For A Significant Portion Of Our Sales Revenue, And We Cannot Be Certain That Sales To These Customers Will Continue. If Sales To These Customers Do Not Continue, Then Our Sales Will Decline And Our Business Will Be Negatively Impacted. Traditionally, we have relied upon 3 customers for a significant portion of our sales during the fiscal year. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006 and March 31, 2007, the same three customers accounted for approximately 48% of our sales for both years. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, they accounted for 50% of our sales. We do not enter into long-term contracts with our customers, but manufacture based upon purchase orders and therefore cannot be certain that sales to these customers will continue. The loss of any of our largest customers would likely have a material negative impact on our sales revenue and our business. Defects In Our Products Could Impair Our Ability To Sell Our Products Or Could Result In Litigation And Other Significant Costs. Detection of any significant defects in our products may result in, among other things, delay in time-to-market, loss of market acceptance and sales of our products, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, or increased warranty costs. Because our products are complex, they may contain defects that cannot be detected prior to shipment. These defects could harm our reputation, which could result in significant costs to us and could impair our ability to sell our products. The costs we may incur in correcting any product defects may be substantial and could decrease our profit margins. 11 Since certain of our products are used in applications that are integral to our customers' businesses, errors, defects, or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to our customers, which would likely result in adverse effects upon our business with these customers. If we were involved in any product liability litigation, even if it were unsuccessful, would be time consuming and costly to defend. Further, our product liability insurance may not be adequate to cover claims. Our Sales Through Retail Merchants Result In Seasonality And Susceptibility To A Downturn In The Retail Economy And Sales Variances Resulting From Retail Promotional Programs. A significant amount of our net sales, $13,484,460 during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 is the result of sales of bathroom and kitchen scales to retail merchants in Europe by Korona Haushaltswaren GmbH & Co. KG ("Korona"), a subsidiary of the Company. In addition, many of our other customers sell to retail merchants. Accordingly, these portions of our customer base are susceptible to a downturn in the retail economy. A greater number of our sales of scales and telecommunications products occur between the months of April and September for shipment in the summer in preparation of the Christmas holiday. Throughout the remainder of the year, our products do not appear to be subject to significant seasonal variation. However, past sales patterns may not be indicative of future performance. A significant portion of our sales in Europe is attributable to the promotional programs of our retail industry customers. These promotional programs result in significant orders by customers who do not carry our products on a regular basis. We cannot assure you that promotional purchases by our retail industry customers will be repeated regularly, or at all. Further, our promotional sales could cause our quarterly results to vary significantly. The reduction in promotional purchases would likely have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. Our Customers Are Dependent On Shipping Companies For Delivery Of Our Products And Interruptions To Shipping Could Materially And Adversely Affect Our Business And Operating Results. Typically, we sell our products either F.O.B. Hong Kong or Yantian (Shenzhen) and our customers are responsible for the transportation of products from Hong Kong or Yantian (Shenzhen) to their final destinations. Our customers rely on a variety of carriers for product transportation through various world ports. A work stoppage, strike or shutdown of one or more major ports or airports could result in shipping delays materially and adversely affecting our customers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Similarly, an increase in freight surcharges due to rising fuel costs or general price increases could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Customer Order Estimates May Not Be Indicative Of Actual Future Sales. Some of our customers have provided us with forecasts of their requirements for our products over a period of time. We make many management decisions based on these customer estimates, including purchasing materials, hiring personnel, and other matters that may increase our production capacity and costs. If a customer reduces its orders from prior estimates after we have increased our production capabilities and costs, this reduction may decrease our net sales and we may not be able to reduce our costs to account for this reduction in customer orders. Many customers do not provide us with forecasts of their requirements for our products. If those customers place significant orders, we may not be able to increase our production quickly enough to fulfill the customers' orders. The inability to fulfill customer orders could damage our relationships with customers and reduce our net sales. 12 Pressure By Our Customers To Reduce Prices And Agree To Long-Term Supply Arrangements May Cause Our Net Sales Or Profit Margins To Decline. Our customers are under pressure to reduce prices of their products. Therefore, we expect to experience increasing pressure from our customers to reduce the prices of our products. Continuing pressure to reduce the price of our products could have a material adverse effect upon our business and operating results. Our customers frequently negotiate supply arrangements with us well in advance of placing orders for delivery within a year, thereby requiring us to commit to price reductions before we can determine if we can achieve the assumed cost reductions. We believe we must reduce our manufacturing costs and obtain higher volume orders to offset declining average sales prices. Further, if we are unable to offset declining average sales prices, our gross profit margins will decline, which would have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. We Depend Upon Our Key Personnel And The Loss Of Any Key Personnel, Or Our Failure To Attract And Retain Key Personnel, Could Adversely Affect Our Future Performance, Including Product Development, Strategic Plans, Marketing And Other Objectives. The loss or failure to attract and retain key personnel could significantly impede our performance, including product development, strategic plans, marketing and other objectives. Our success depends to a substantial extent not only on the ability and experience of our senior management, but particularly upon Anthony So our Chairman of the Board. We do not have key man life insurance on Mr. So. To the extent that the services of Mr. So would be unavailable to us, we would be required to obtain another person to perform the duties Mr. So otherwise would perform. We may be unable to employ another qualified person with the appropriate background and expertise to replace Mr. So on terms suitable to us. Certain Subsidiaries Of The Company Received On-going Enquiries From The Local Tax Authorities During The Year. If The Subsidiaries Were Finally Held Liable For Such Additional Taxation, Our Consolidated Net Income And The Value Of Your Investment Could Be Substantially Reduced. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007, certain of our subsidiaries were and continue to be subject to enquiries from the local tax authorities. Upon the adoption of FIN 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes -- An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109", or FIN 48, the Company recorded a provision of approximately $2,164,000 in relation to uncertain tax positions as of April 1, 2007. The assessment is subject to final determination by the local tax authorities and may be different from what we have recorded as a provision. As such, there can be no assurance that the enquiry will not result in imposing additional income tax expense on the Group, which could have a material adverse effect upon the Group and its results of operations. Contractual Arrangements We Have Entered Into Among Us And Our Subsidiaries May Be Subject To Scrutiny By The Respective Tax Authorities And A Finding That Bonso And Its Subsidiaries Owe Additional Taxes Could Substantially Reduce Our Consolidated Net Income And The Value Of Your Investment. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the respective tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements among our subsidiaries and Bonso do not represent an arm's length price and adjust Bonso or any of its subsidiaries' income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. Bonso did not consider the need to make 13 a tax provision in this respect. However, there can be no assurance that the assessment performed by the local tax authorities will result in the same position. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction, for tax purposes, of expense deductions recorded by Bonso or any of its subsidiaries, which could in turn increase its tax liabilities. In addition, the tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties to our affiliated entities for under-paid taxes. Our consolidated net income may be materially and adversely affected if our affiliated entities' tax liabilities increase or if they are found to be subject to late payment fees or other penalties. Increased Prices For Raw Materials May Have A Negative Impact Upon Us. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, the costs of component parts increased due to the increase in the price of oil used in the production of components such as plastic resin, steel and other raw materials. If oil prices continue to increase, it will likely result in an increase in the costs of components to us as well as an increase in our operating expenses, which may have a material adverse effect upon our business and results of operations. We May Face An Increased Shortage Of Factory Workers. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, March 31, 2007 and March 31, 2008, we experienced labor shortages for factory workers. Due to increases in demand for workers in China, we cannot assure you that we can adequately staff the factory. The ability to adequately staff our factory could have a material impact on production, which could lead to delays in shipments or missed sales. In the event that we have delayed or lost sales, we may need to deliver goods by air at our cost to ensure that our products arrive on time, which would likely result in an increase in air freight costs, vendor fines and could result in missed sales, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business and our results from operations. We will reduce the labor requirements by sub-contracting out some production processes that our sub-contractor has a competitive advantage in the cost of production for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. We will benefit from the lower cost of production and higher business flexibility. We intend to monitor the quality from outsourcing through our incoming quality control process; however, we cannot guarantee the ability of our sub-contractors to deliver goods on time. We Face Increasing Competition In Our Industry And May Not Be Able To Successfully Compete With Our Competitors. Our business is in an industry that is becoming increasingly competitive, and many of our competitors, both local and international, have substantially greater technical, financial and marketing resources than we have, and as a result, we may be unable to compete successfully with these competitors. We compete with scale manufacturers in the Far East, the United States, and Europe. We believe that our principal competitors in the scale and telecommunications market are other OEM and original design manufacturer "ODM" manufacturers, and all companies engaged in the branded, ODM and OEM business. Both the scale and the telecommunications markets are highly competitive and we face pressures on pricing and lower margins as evidenced by the decline in margins that we have experienced with our scale and telecommunications products. Lower margins may affect our ability to cover our costs, which could have a material negative impact on our operations and our business. We Are Controlled By Our Management, Whose Interest May Differ From Those Of The Other Shareholders. As of October 7, 2008, Mr. Anthony So, our founder and Chairman, beneficially owns approximately 36.41% of the outstanding shares 14 of common stock, including shares underlying his outstanding options, or 29.16% without including his outstanding options. Due to his stock ownership, Mr. So may be in a position to elect the board of directors and, therefore, to control our business and affairs including certain significant corporate actions such as acquisitions, the sale or purchase of assets and the issuance and sale of our securities. Mr. So may be able to prevent or cause a change in control. We also may be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us without Mr. So's consent. The interest of our largest shareholder may differ from the interests of other shareholders. We have identified Material Weaknesses in our Internal Controls over Financial Reporting. We became subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, which requires us to include a report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In connection with the preparation of this Annual Report, management of the Company identified material weaknesses in the Company's internal controls over financial reporting. Because of these material weaknesses, there is heightened risk that a material misstatement of our financial statements will not be prevented or detected. We intend to take steps to remediate our material weaknesses, including hiring additional accounting and finance personnel and engaging consultants, but we cannot assure you that our efforts to remediate these internal control weaknesses will be successful, that similar material weaknesses will not recur or that we will not identify new material weaknesses. In the event that we do not adequately remedied these material weaknesses, and if we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls in future periods, we could become subject to potential review by the NASDAQ, the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities, which could (i) require additional financial and management resources, (ii) compromise our ability to run our business effectively, (iii) cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting, and (iv) result in a reduction in the price of our Common Stock. Compliance Costs With Recently Enacted Changes In The Securities Laws And Regulations Pursuant To The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Will Increase Our Costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that became law in July 2002 has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure, accounting and compliance practices. In response to the requirements of that act, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ have promulgated new rules on a variety of subjects. Compliance with these rules as well as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including but not limited to compliance with Section 404 that requires management to assess the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, has increased our legal, financial and accounting costs, and we expect the cost of compliance with these new rules to be permanent. Further, the new rules may increase the expenses associated with our director and officer liability insurance. Our Operating Results And Stock Price Are Subject To Wide Fluctuations. Our quarterly and annual operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could materially and adversely affect net sales, gross profit and profitability. This could result from any one or a combination of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of results to be expected in any future period, and fluctuations in operating results may also result in fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. 15 Our Results Could Be Affected By Changes In Currency Exchange Rates. Changes in currency rates involving the Canadian Dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Chinese Renminbi, British Pounds or the Euro could increase our expenses. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, our financial results were affected by currency fluctuations, resulting in a total foreign exchange loss of approximately $184,000, $184,000 and $216,000 respectively. Generally, our revenues are collected in United States Dollars, Euros and Canadian Dollars. Our costs and expenses are paid in United States Dollars, Canadian Dollars, Hong Kong Dollars, British Pound, Euros and Chinese Renminbi. We face a variety of risks associated with changes among the relative value of these currencies. An appreciation of the Canadian Dollar, Chinese Renminbi, Hong Kong Dollar, British Pound, or the Euro against the U.S. Dollar would increase our expenses when translated into U.S. Dollars and could materially and adversely affect our margins and results of operations. In addition, a significant devaluation in the Canadian Dollar, Chinese Renminbi, Hong Kong Dollar, British Pound or Euro could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. Protection And Infringement Of Intellectual Property. Except for three patents held by Gram Precision Scales Inc. ("Gram Precision"), the trademark for KORONA and twelve trademarks currently held by Gram Precision, we have no patents, licenses, franchises, concessions or royalty agreements that are material to our business. We have obtained a trademark registration in Hong Kong and China for the marks BONSO and MODUS in connection with certain electronic apparatus. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or trademarks or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary rights may allow third parties to duplicate our products or develop functionally equivalent or superior technology. In addition, our competitors may independently develop similar technology or design around our proprietary intellectual property. Further, we may be notified that we are infringing patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights owned by other parties. In the event of an infringement claim, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to develop a non-infringing alternative or to obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing such an alternative or obtaining a license on reasonable terms, if at all. Any litigation, even without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations. Cancellations Or Delays In Orders Could Materially And Adversely Affect Our Gross Margins And Operating Income. Sales to our OEM customers are primarily based on purchase orders we receive from time to time rather than firm, long-term purchase commitments. Although it is our general practice to purchase raw materials only upon receiving a purchase order, for certain customers we will occasionally purchase raw materials based on such customers' rolling forecasts. Further, during times of potential component shortages we have purchased, and may continue to purchase, raw materials and component parts in the expectation of receiving purchase orders for products that use these components. In the event actual purchase orders are delayed, are not received or are cancelled, we would experience increased inventory levels or possible write-downs of raw material inventory that could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. 16 We Generally Have No Written Agreements With Suppliers To Obtain Components And Our Margins And Operating Results Could Suffer From Increases In Component Prices. We are typically responsible for purchasing components used in manufacturing products for our customers. We generally do not have written agreements with our suppliers of components. This typically results in our bearing the risk of component price increases because we may be unable to procure the required materials at a price level necessary to generate anticipated margins from the orders of our customers. Further, prices of components have increased recently based upon the increase in oil prices and what management believes to be a high worldwide demand for components used in the manufacturing of our products. Accordingly, additional increases in component prices could materially and adversely affect our gross margins and results from operations. Certain Legal Consequences of Foreign Incorporation and Operations Judgments Against The Company And Management May Be Difficult To Obtain Or Enforce. We are a holding corporation organized under the laws of the British Virgin Islands and our principal operating subsidiaries are organized under the laws of Hong Kong and the laws of the Peoples' Republic of China. Our principal executive offices are located in Hong Kong and the Peoples' Republic of China, Korona is located in Germany and Gram Precision is located in Canada. Outside the United States, it may be difficult for investors to enforce judgments obtained against us in actions brought in the United States, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of federal securities laws. In addition, most of our officers and directors reside outside the United States and the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons, or to enforce against the Company or these persons judgments predicated upon the liability provisions of United States federal securities laws. Our Hong Kong counsel and our British Virgin Islands counsel have advised that there is substantial doubt as to the enforceability against us or any of our directors or officers in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts in claims for liability based on the civil liability provisions of federal securities laws. Because We Are Incorporated In The British Virgin Islands, You May Not Have The Same Protections As Shareholders Of U.S. Corporations. We are organized under the laws of the British Virgin Islands. Principles of law relating to matters affecting the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of our management, directors and controlling shareholders and the rights of our shareholders differ from, and may not be as protective of shareholders as, those that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States. Our directors have the power to take certain actions without shareholder approval, including an amendment of our Memorandum or Articles of Association and certain fundamental corporate transactions, including reorganizations, certain mergers or consolidations and the sale or transfer of assets. In addition, there is doubt that the courts of the British Virgin Islands would enforce liabilities predicated upon United States federal securities laws. 17 Future Issuances Of Preference Shares Could Materially And Adversely Affect The Holders Of Our Common Shares Or Delay Or Prevent A Change Of Control. Our Memorandum and Articles of Association provide the ability to issue an aggregate of 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in four classes. While currently no preferred shares are issued or outstanding, we may issue preferred shares in the future. Future issuance of preferred shares could materially and adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common shares, dilute the common shareholders or delay or prevent a change of control. Our Shareholders Do Not Have The Same Protections Or Information Generally Available To Shareholders Of U.S. Corporations Because The Reporting Requirements For Foreign Private Issuers Are More Limited Than Those Applicable To Public Corporations Organized In The United States. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. We are not subject to certain provisions of the Exchange Act applicable to United States public companies including: the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K, the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect to a security registered under the Exchange Act and the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any "short-swing" trading transaction (i.e., a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer's equity securities within six months or less). Because we are not subject to these rules, our shareholders are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors in public companies organized in the United States. Our Board's Ability To Amend Our Charter Without Shareholder Approval Could Have Anti-Takeover Effects That Could Prevent A Change In Control. As permitted by the law of the British Virgin Islands, our Memorandum and Articles of Association, which are the terms used in the British Virgin Islands for a corporation's charter and bylaws, may be amended by our board of directors without shareholder approval. This includes amendments to increase or reduce our authorized capital stock. Our board's ability to amend our charter documents without shareholder approval could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of Bonso, including a tender offer to purchase our common shares at a premium over the current market price. We May Not Pay Dividends In The Future. Although we have declared dividends on April 2, 2003 and July 13, 2004 and July 12, 2005 and August 22, 2006, we may not be able to declare dividends or the board of directors may decide not to declare dividends in the future. We will determine the amounts of any dividends when and if they are declared, in the future at the time of declaration. 