Risk Factors Relating to Our Business We Depend Upon Our Largest Customers For A Significant Portion Of Our Sales Revenue, And We Cannot Be Certain That Sales To These Customers Will Continue. If Sales To These Customers Do Not Continue, Then Our Sales Will Decline And Our Business Will Be Negatively Impacted. We have relied upon three customers for a significant portion of our sales. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013, 2014 and 2015, these three customers accounted for approximately 83%, 87% and 80% of sales, respectively. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, 37% of our sales were to a single customer (45% of our sales to another single customer during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014). We do not enter into long-term contracts with our customers but manufacture based upon purchase orders and therefore cannot be certain that sales to these customers will continue. Our largest customer in 2013, which accounted for 52% of our net sales in that year, represented 45% in 2014 and 24% in 2015. The loss of any of our largest customers would likely have a material negative impact on our sales revenue and our business. Defects In Our Products Could Impair Our Ability To Sell Our Products Or Could Result In Litigation And Other Significant Costs. Detection of any significant defects in our products may result in, among other things, delay in time-to-market, loss of market acceptance and sales of our products, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation or increased warranty costs. Because our products are complex, they may contain defects that cannot be detected prior to shipment. These defects could harm our reputation, which could result in significant costs to us and could impair our ability to sell our products. The costs we may incur in correcting any product defects may be substantial and could decrease our profit margins. 14 Since certain of our products are used in applications that are integral to our customers’ businesses, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to our customers, which would likely result in adverse effects upon our business with these customers. If we were involved in any product liability litigation, even if it were unsuccessful, it would be time-consuming and costly to defend. Further, our product liability insurance may not be adequate to cover claims. Our Sales Through Retail Merchants Result In Seasonality, Susceptibility To A Downturn In The Retail Economy And Sales Variances Resulting From Retail Promotional Programs. Many of our customers sell to retail merchants. Accordingly, these portions of our customer base are susceptible to downturns in the retail economy. A greater number of our sales of scales products occur between the months of July and October in preparation for the Christmas holiday. Throughout the remainder of the year, our products do not appear to be subject to significant seasonal variation. However, past sales patterns may not be indicative of future performance. Our Customers Are Dependent On Shipping Companies For Delivery Of Our Products, And Interruptions To Shipping Could Materially And Adversely Affect Our Business And Operating Results. Typically, we sell our products either F.O.B. Hong Kong, Yantian (Shenzhen) or Nansha (Guangzhou), and our customers are responsible for the transportation of products from Hong Kong, Yantian (Shenzhen) or Nansha (Guangzhou) to their final destinations. Our customers rely on a variety of carriers for product transportation through various world ports. A work stoppage, strike or shutdown of one or more major ports or airports could result in shipping delays materially and adversely affecting our customers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Similarly, an increase in freight surcharges due to rising fuel costs or general price increases could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Customer Order Estimates May Not Be Indicative Of Actual Future Sales. Some of our customers have provided us with forecasts of their requirements for our products over a period of time. We make many management decisions based on these customer estimates, including purchasing materials, hiring personnel and other matters that may increase our production capacity and costs. If a customer reduces its orders from prior estimates after we have increased our production capabilities and costs, this reduction may decrease our net sales and we may not be able to reduce our costs to account for this reduction in customer orders. Many customers do not provide us with forecasts of their requirements for our products. If those customers place significant orders, we may not be able to increase our production quickly enough to fulfill the customers’ orders. The inability to fulfill customer orders could damage our relationships with customers and reduce our net sales. 15 Pressure By Our Customers To Reduce Prices And Agree To Long-Term Supply Arrangements May Cause Our Net Sales Or Profit Margins To Decline. Our customers are under pressure to reduce prices of their products. Therefore, we expect to experience increasing pressure from our customers to reduce the prices of our products. Continuing pressure to reduce the price of our products could have a material adverse effect upon our business and operating results. Our customers frequently negotiate supply arrangements with us well in advance of placing orders for delivery within a year, thereby requiring us to commit to price reductions before we can determine if we can achieve the assumed cost reductions. We believe we must reduce our manufacturing costs and obtain higher volume orders to offset declining average sales prices. Further, if we are unable to offset declining average sales prices, our gross profit margins will decline, which would have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. We Depend Upon Our Key Personnel, And The Loss Of Any Key Personnel, Or Our Failure To Attract And Retain Key Personnel, Could Adversely Affect Our Future Performance, Including Product Development, Strategic Plans, Marketing And Other Objectives. The loss or failure to attract and retain key personnel could significantly impede our performance, including product development, strategic plans, marketing and other objectives. Our success depends to a substantial extent not only on the ability and experience of our senior management, but particularly upon Anthony So, our Chairman of the Board. We do not have key man life insurance on Mr. So. To the extent that the services of Mr. So would be unavailable to us, we would be required to obtain another person to perform the duties Mr. So otherwise would perform. We may be unable to employ another qualified person with the appropriate background and expertise to replace Mr. So on terms suitable to us. Contractual Arrangements We Have Entered Into Among Us And Our Subsidiaries May Be Subject To Scrutiny By The Respective Tax Authorities, And A Finding That Bonso And Its Subsidiaries Owe Additional Taxes Could Substantially Reduce Our Consolidated Net Income And The Value Of Your Investment. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the respective tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements among our subsidiaries and Bonso do not represent an arm’s length price and adjust Bonso’s, or any of its subsidiaries’, income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. Bonso did not consider it necessary to make tax provision in this respect. However, there can be no assurance that the assessment performed by the local tax authorities will result in the same position. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction, for tax purposes, of expense deductions recorded by Bonso or any of its subsidiaries, which could in turn increase its tax liabilities. In addition, the tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties on our affiliated entities for underpaid taxes. Our consolidated net income may be materially and adversely affected if our affiliated entities’ tax liabilities increase or if they are found to be subject to late payment fees or other penalties. 16 Increased Prices For Raw Materials May Have A Negative Impact Upon Us. The price level of raw materials decreased slightly in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, compared to that in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. The price of some of the raw materials fluctuates directly with the price of oil. If oil prices were to increase in the future, it will likely result in an increase in the costs of components to us, as well as an increase in our operating expenses, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business and results of operations. We May Face An Increased Shortage Of Factory Workers. Currently, we have a sufficient number of factory workers at our Xinxing factory and do not expect a significant labor shortage in the next 12 months. However, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an increased need for workers in China in the future or that we will be able to adequately staff our factory in Xinxing in the future. The inability to adequately staff our factories could have a material adverse impact on production, which could lead to delays in shipments or missed sales. In the event that we have delayed or lost sales, we may need to deliver goods by air at our cost to ensure that our products arrive on time, which would likely result in an increase in air freight costs and vendor fines and could result in missed sales, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business and our results from operations. Recent Changes In The PRC’s Labor Law Could Penalize Bonso If It Needs To Make Additional Workforce Reductions. In June 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC enacted new labor law legislation called the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. It formalizes workers’ rights concerning overtime hours, pensions, layoffs, employment contracts and the role of trade unions. Considered as one of the strictest labor laws in the world, among other things, this new law requires an employer to conclude an “open-ended employment contract” with any employee who either has worked for the employer for 10 years or more or has had two consecutive fixed-term contracts. An “open-ended employment contract” is in effect a lifetime, permanent contract, which is terminable only in specified circumstances, such as a material breach of the employer’s rules and regulations, or for a serious dereliction of duty. Under the new law, downsizing by 20% or more of each individual entity may occur only under specified circumstances, such as a restructuring undertaken pursuant to China’s Enterprise Bankruptcy Law, or where a company suffers serious difficulties in production and/or business operations. Also, if we lay off more than 20 employees at one time, we have to communicate with the labor union of our Company and report to the District Labor Bureau. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, we paid severance payments of $1,194,000 for reducing our full workforce in Shenzhen, PRC as we moved our operations to the new factory in Xinxing, and the accumulated provision was approximately $256,000 as of March 31, 2015. (2014: $156,000; 2013: $743,000). This accrued severance payment allowance is reviewed every year. We may incur much higher costs under China’s labor laws if we are forced to downsize again, and accordingly, this new labor law may exacerbate the adverse effect of the economic environment on our financial results and financial condition. 17 We Face Increasing Competition In Our Industry And May Not Be Able To Successfully Compete With Our Competitors. Our business is in an industry that is becoming increasingly competitive, and many of our competitors, both local and international, have substantially greater technical, financial and marketing resources than we have. As a result, we may be unable to compete successfully with these competitors. We compete with scale manufacturers in the Far East, the United States and Europe. We believe that our principal competitors in the scale market are other original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and original design manufacturers (“ODMs”), and all companies engaged in the branded, ODM and OEM business. The scale market is highly competitive, and we face pressures on pricing which could result in lower margins. Lower margins may affect our ability to cover our costs, which could have a material negative impact on our operations and our business. We Are Controlled By Our Management, Whose Interests May Differ From Those Of The Other Shareholders. As of July 15, 2015, Mr. Anthony So, our founder and Chairman, beneficially owned approximately 46.5% of our common stock (43.5% of our issued and outstanding shares after eliminating 330,736 shares held as treasury stock (“Treasury Stock”)). Andrew So, our Chief Operating Officer and President, beneficially owned approximately 12.8% of our common stock (8.6% of our issued and outstanding shares after eliminating Treasury Stock). Albert So, our Chief Financial Officer, beneficially owned approximately 6.9% of our common stock (4.8% of our issued and outstanding shares after eliminating Treasury Stock). The record ownership of Mr. Anthony So, Mr. Andrew So and Mr. Albert So aggregates 56.9% of the shares entitled to vote. The other directors of the Company own of record 3.7% of the shares entitled to vote. Accordingly, the existing management and directors of the Company can vote in the aggregate 60.6% of the shares entitled to vote. As a result, the current directors and management of the Company are in a position to elect the Board of Directors and, therefore, to control our business and affairs, including certain significant corporate actions such as acquisitions, the sale or purchase of assets and the issuance and sale of our securities. The current directors and management may be able to prevent or cause a change in control of the Company. We also may be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us without the current directors’ and management’s consent. The interest of our largest shareholders may differ from the interests of other shareholders. There are no agreements, understandings or commitments among the members of the Board to vote their shares in any specific manner or to vote collectively for or against any matter that may come before the shareholders. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements. We are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as required by Rule 13a-15 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As disclosed in Item 15 – “Controls and Procedures,” we have identified, in conjunction with our independent auditors, certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting related to our financial closing process, the lack of trained accounting personnel and the failure to enter certain transactions into the accounting records on a timely basis. 18 A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of these material weaknesses, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of March 31, 2015, based on criteria set forth by the 2013 Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, the Company took remediation measures (as discussed in Item 15) to address certain deficiencies noted in our Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. As discussed in Item 15, we are developing and intend to implement remediation plans designed to address these material weaknesses; however, the material weaknesses will not be remediated until the necessary controls have been implemented and are determined to be operating effectively. We do not know the specific time frame needed to fully remediate the material weaknesses identified. We cannot assure you that our efforts to fully remediate these internal control weaknesses will be successful or that similar material weaknesses will not recur. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. Notwithstanding the identified material weaknesses, management believes the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 20-F fairly present in all material respects our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows at and for the periods presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Due To Inherent Limitations, There Can Be No Assurance That Our System Of Disclosure And Internal Controls And Procedures Will Be Successful In Preventing All Errors Or Fraud Or In Informing Management Of All Material Information In A Timely Manner. Our disclosure controls and internal controls and procedures may not prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well-conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system reflects that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been or will be detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur simply because of error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by circumvention of the internal control procedures. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. 19 There Are Inherent Uncertainties Involved In Estimates, Judgments And Assumptions Used In The Preparation Of Financial Statements In Accordance With U.S. GAAP. Any Changes In Estimates, Judgments And Assumptions Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Business, Financial Position And Results Of Operations. The consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the SEC are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets (including intangible assets), liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to changes in the future, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operation. Compliance Costs With The Securities Laws The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”), And Other Regulatory Initiatives Will Increase Our Costs. Changes in corporate governance practices due to the Dodd-Frank Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, changes in the continued listing rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market, new accounting pronouncements and new regulatory legislation, rules or accounting changes have increased our cost of being a U.S. public company and may have an adverse impact on our future financial position and operating results. . These regulatory changes and other legislative initiatives have made some activities more time-consuming and have increased financial compliance and administrative costs for public companies, including foreign private issuers like us. In addition, any future changes in regulatory legislation, rules or accounting may cause our legal and accounting costs to further increase. In addition, these new rules and regulations require increasing time commitments and resource commitments from our company, including from senior management. This increased cost could negatively impact our earnings and have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Further, the new rules may increase the expenses associated with our director and officer liability insurance. During the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2014, We Inadvertently Violated Section 402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and Section 13(k) Of The Securities Exchange Act And May Be Subject To Sanctions For Such Violations. Section 13(k) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) provides that it is unlawful for a company such as ours, which has a class of securities registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act to, directly or indirectly, including through any subsidiary, extend or maintain credit in the form of a personal loan to or for any director or executive officer of the company. Issuers violating Section 13(k) of the Exchange Act may be subject to civil sanctions, including injunctive remedies and monetary penalties, as well as criminal sanctions. The imposition of any of such sanctions on the Company may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 20 During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, we made loans aggregating approximately $1,052,000 to our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Anthony So. Management believed at the time that the loans were made that these loans were permissible and did not violate Section 13(k) of the Exchange Act, because Mr . Anthony So would be able to repay the full amount by foregoing his salary and accrued annual leave payments until the loans had been paid in full. We advanced the funds to Mr. So on two separate occasions, and Mr. Anthony So directed that his salary payments and accrued annual leave payments be used to offset the amounts that we loaned to him. In addition, Mr. Albert So and Mr. Andrew So, who are officers and directors of the Company, directed the Company to use their accrued annual leave payments to partially satisfy the amounts due to the Company from Mr. Anthony So. On March 31, 2014, the amount due to the Company from Mr. Anthony So was $166,157. On August 7, 2014, Mr. Anthony So paid $166,157 to the Company to fully repay the amounts loaned to him. The loans were non-interest bearing. See “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions.” Notwithstanding Mr., Anthony So’s repayment in full of the loans made to him, those loans constitute a violation of Section 13(k) of the Exchange Act and Section 402(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As a result of this inadvertent violation, the Board adopted a policy regarding loans or advances to any Executive Officer or Director of the Company. The policy provides that “The Company shall not directly or indirectly, including through any subsidiary, extend or maintain credit to, or arrange for the extension of credit, or renew an extension of credit, in the form of a personal loan to or for any Director or Executive Officer (or equivalent thereof) of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company.” Our Operating Results And Stock Price Are Subject To Wide Fluctuations. Our quarterly and annual operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could materially and adversely affect net sales, gross profit and profitability. This could result from any one or a combination of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of results to be expected in any future period, and fluctuations in operating results may also result in fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. 21 Our Results Could Be Affected By Changes In Currency Exchange Rates. Changes in currency rates involving the Hong Kong Dollar or Chinese Renminbi could increase our expenses. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013, 2014 and 2015, our financial results were affected by currency fluctuations, resulting in a total foreign exchange loss of approximately $261,000, $444,000 and $134,000, respectively. Generally, our revenues are collected in United States Dollars. Our costs and expenses are paid in United States Dollars, Hong Kong Dollars and Chinese Renminbi. We face a variety of risks associated with changes among the relative value of these currencies. Appreciation of the Chinese Renminbi against the Hong Kong Dollar and the United States Dollar would increase our expenses when translated into United States Dollars and could materially and adversely affect our margins and results of operations. If the trend of Chinese Renminbi appreciation continues against the Hong Kong Dollar and the United States Dollar, our operating costs will further increase and our financial results will be adversely affected. In addition, a significant devaluation in the Chinese Renminbi or Hong Kong Dollar could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. If we determined to pass onto our customers through price increases the effect of increases in the Chinese Renminbi relative to the Hong Kong Dollar and the United States Dollar, it would make our products more expensive in global markets, such as the United States and the European Union. This could result in the loss of customers, who may seek, and be able to obtain, products and services comparable to those we offer in lower-cost regions of the world. If we did not increase our prices to pass on the effect of increases in the Chinese Renminbi relative to the Hong Kong Dollar and the United States Dollar, our margins and profitability would suffer. Protection And Infringement Of Intellectual Property. We have no patents, licenses, franchises, concessions or royalty agreements that are material to our business. We have obtained a trademark registration in Hong Kong for the marks BONSO and MODUS in connection with certain electronic apparatus. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or trademarks or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary rights may allow third parties to duplicate our products or develop functionally equivalent or superior technology. In addition, our competitors may independently develop similar technology or design around our proprietary intellectual property. 22 Further, we may be notified that we are infringing patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights owned by other parties. In the event of an infringement claim, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to develop a non-infringing alternative or to obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing such an alternative or obtaining a license on reasonable terms, if at all. Any litigation, even without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Cancellations Or Delays In Orders Could Materially And Adversely Affect Our Gross Margins And Operating Income. Sales to our OEM customers are primarily based on purchase orders we receive from time to time rather than firm, long-term purchase commitments. Although it is our general practice to purchase raw materials only upon receiving a purchase order, for certain customers we will occasionally purchase raw materials based on such customers’ rolling forecasts. Further, during times of potential component shortages we have purchased, and may continue to purchase, raw materials and component parts in the expectation of receiving purchase orders for products that use these components. In the event actual purchase orders are delayed, are not received or are canceled, we would experience increased inventory levels or possible write-downs of raw material inventory that could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We Generally Have No Written Agreements With Suppliers To Obtain Components, And Our Margins And Operating Results Could Suffer From Increases In Component Prices. We are typically responsible for purchasing components used in manufacturing products for our customers. We generally do not have written agreements with our suppliers of components. This typically results in our bearing the risk of component price increases because we may be unable to procure the required materials at a price level necessary to generate anticipated margins from the orders of our customers. Prices of components may increase in the future for a variety of reasons. Accordingly, additional increases in component prices could materially and adversely affect our gross margins and results of operations. We may encounter difficulties in obtaining approval to redevelop our Shenzhen Factory Land, which could adversely affect our growth and business prospects. As part of our ongoing business strategy we intend to focus our efforts on redeveloping our Shenzhen factory into a high-end commercial complex containing retail space, office space and some residential space. We anticipate that it will take several years to obtain all necessary governmental approvals for us to redevelop the Shenzhen factory, and we think it is likely that we will obtain the necessary approvals. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain all requisite permits and approvals from relevant government authorities in relation to the redevelopment of the land, and the development of the commercial complex. Our planned real estate project is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including without limitation the following: 23 •we do not currently have strong brand recognition or relationships in the real estate development and management business; •we may not be able to obtain all necessary government approvals or all requisite permits and approvals from relevant government authorities in relation to the redevelopment of the land, or to successfully redevelop the land in a timely manner; •we face intense competition from real estate developers that are already in the business for years; •our experience and expertise gained from our manufacturing business may not be particularly relevant or applicable to a real estate development and management business; and •we may not be able to generate enough revenues to offset our costs in our real estate development and management business. If we are not successful in development of our property development project, our growth, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not have adequate financing, whether through bank loans or other arrangements, to fund the redevelopment of our Shenzhen factory site, and capital resources may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Redevelopment of our Shenzhen factory will require us to make a significant investment. Property development is capital intensive, and we do not currently have the necessary capital to fund the redevelopment project. We plan to finance our property redevelopment from our cash on hand, bank facilities and other sources. We cannot assure you that lenders will grant us sufficient financing in the future to fully fund the redevelopment project or that funding will be available from other sources. Further, the financing policies of the PRC government relating to the property development sector have varied. It is possible that the PRC government may further tighten financing policies on PRC financial institutions for the property development sector. These property-related financing policies may limit our ability and flexibility to use bank borrowings to finance our property redevelopment project. 24 We may fail to obtain, or experience material delays in obtaining, requisite certificates, licenses, permits or governmental approvals for redevelopment of our Shenzhen factory, and as a result our redevelopment plans, business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Property development in the PRC is heavily regulated. Property developers in China must abide by various laws and regulations, including implementation rules promulgated by local governments to enforce these laws and regulations. During various stages of our property redevelopment project, we will be required to obtain and maintain various certificates, licenses, permits, certificates and governmental approvals, including but not limited to qualification certificates, land use rights certificates, construction land planning permits, construction works planning permits, construction works commencement permits, pre-sale permits and completion certificates. Before the government authorities issue any certificate, license or permit, we must also meet specific conditions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt to new PRC land policies that may come into effect from time to time with respect to the property development industry or that we will not encounter other material delays or difficulties in fulfilling the necessary conditions to obtain all necessary certificates, licenses or permits for our property development in a timely manner, or at all, in the future. If we fail to obtain or encounter significant delays in obtaining the necessary certificates, licenses or permits we will not be able to continue with our redevelopment plans, and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Certain Legal Consequences of Foreign Incorporation and Operations Judgments Against The Company And Management May Be Difficult To Obtain Or Enforce. We are a holding corporation organized as an International Business Company under the laws of the British Virgin Islands (“BVI”), and our principal operating subsidiaries are organized under the laws of Hong Kong and the laws of the PRC. Our principal executive offices are located in Hong Kong and the PRC. Outside the United States, it may be difficult for investors to enforce judgments obtained against us in actions brought in the United States, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of United States federal securities laws. In addition, most of our officers and directors reside outside the United States, and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons or to enforce against the Company or these persons judgments predicated upon the liability provisions of United States federal securities laws. Our Hong Kong counsel and our British Virgin Islands counsel have advised that there is substantial doubt as to the enforceability against us or any of our directors or officers in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts in claims for liability based on the civil liability provisions of United States federal securities laws. 25 No treaty exists between Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands and the United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. However, the courts of Hong Kong and the British Virgin Islands are generally prepared to accept a foreign judgment as evidence of a debt due. An action may then be commenced in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands for recovery of this debt. A Hong Kong or British Virgin Islands court will only accept a foreign judgment as evidence of a debt due if: •the judgment is for a liquidated amount in a civil matter; •the judgment is final and conclusive; •the judgment is not, directly or indirectly, for the payment of foreign taxes, penalties, fines or charges of a like nature (in this regard, a Hong Kong court is unlikely to accept a judgment for an amount obtained by doubling, trebling or otherwise multiplying a sum assessed as compensation for the loss or damage sustained by the person in whose favor the judgment was given); •the judgment was not obtained by actual or constructive fraud or duress; •the foreign court has taken jurisdiction on grounds that are recognized by the common law rules as to conflict of laws in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands; •the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained were not contrary to natural justice (i.e. the concept of fair adjudication); •the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained, the judgment itself and the enforcement of the judgment are not contrary to the public policy of Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands; •the person against whom the judgment is given is subject to the jurisdiction of a foreign court; and •the judgment is not on a claim for contribution in respect of damages awarded by a judgment, which fall under Section 7 of the Protection of Trading Interests Ordinance, Chapter 7 of the Laws of Hong Kong. Enforcement of a foreign judgment in Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands may also be limited or affected by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, arrangement and moratorium, or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors’ rights generally, and will be subject to a statutory limitation of time within which proceedings may be brought. Because We Are Incorporated In The British Virgin Islands, You May Not Have The Same Protections As Shareholders Of U.S. Corporations. We are organized under the laws of the British Virgin Islands. Principles of law relating to matters affecting the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of our management, directors and controlling shareholders and the rights of our shareholders differ from, and may not be as protective of shareholders as, those that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States. Our directors have the power to take certain actions without shareholder approval, including amending our Memorandum or Articles of Association, which are the terms used in the British Virgin Islands for a corporation’s charter and bylaws, respectively, and approving certain fundamental corporate transactions, including reorganizations, certain mergers or consolidations and the sale or transfer of assets. In addition, there is doubt that the courts of the British Virgin Islands would enforce liabilities predicated upon United States federal securities laws. 26 Future Issuances Of Preference Shares Could Materially And Adversely Affect The Holders Of Our Common Shares Or Delay Or Prevent A Change Of Control. Our Memorandum and Articles of Association provide the ability to issue an aggregate of 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in four classes. While no preferred shares are currently issued or outstanding, we may issue preferred shares in the future. Future issuance of preferred shares could materially and adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common shares, dilute the common shareholders’ holdings or delay or prevent a change of control. Our Shareholders Do Not Have The Same Protections Or Information Generally Available To Shareholders Of U.S. Corporations Because The Reporting Requirements For Foreign Private Issuers Are More Limited Than Those Applicable To Public Corporations Organized In The United States. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). We are not subject to certain provisions of the Exchange Act applicable to United States public companies, including: the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K, the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations with respect to a security registered under the Exchange Act and the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction (i.e., a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within six months or less). Because we are not subject to these rules, our shareholders are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors in public companies organized in the United States. Our Board’s Ability To Amend Our Charter Without Shareholder Approval Could Have Anti-Takeover Effects That Could Prevent A Change In Control. As permitted by the laws of the British Virgin Islands, our Memorandum and Articles of Association may be amended by our Board of Directors without shareholder approval. This includes amendments to increase or reduce our authorized capital stock. Our Board’s ability to amend our charter documents without shareholder approval could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of Bonso, including a tender offer to purchase our common shares at a premium over the current market price. We Have Not Paid Dividends Since 2007 And May Not Pay Dividends In The Future. We have not paid dividends on our common stock since 2007, and we may not be able to declare dividends, or the Board of Directors may decide not to declare dividends, in the future. We will determine the amounts of any dividends when and if they are declared, in the future at the time of declaration. 27 Item 