Risk Factors Relating to Our Business We Depend Upon Our Largest Customers For A Significant Portion Of Our Sales Revenue, And We Cannot Be Certain That Sales To These Customers Will Continue. If Sales To These Customers Do Not Continue, Then Our Sales Will Decline And Our Business Will Be Negatively Impacted. Traditionally, we have relied upon 3 customers for a significant portion of our sales during the fiscal year. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005, these three customers accounted for approximately 45% of our sales. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006 and March 31, 2007, the same three customers accounted for approximately 48% of our sales for both years. We do not enter into long-term contracts with our customers, but manufacture based upon purchase orders and therefore cannot be certain that sales to these customers will continue. The loss of any of our largest customers would likely have a material negative impact on our sales revenue and our business. Defects In Our Products Could Impair Our Ability To Sell Our Products Or Could Result In Litigation And Other Significant Costs. Detection of any significant defects in our products may result in, among other things, delay in time-to-market, loss of market acceptance and sales of our products, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, or increased warranty costs. Because our products are complex, they may contain defects that cannot be detected prior to shipment. These defects could harm our reputation, which could result in significant costs to us and could impair our ability to sell our products. The costs we may incur in correcting any product defects may be substantial and could decrease our profit margins. Since certain of our products are used in applications that are integral to our customers' businesses, errors, defects, or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to our customers, which would likely result in adverse effects upon our business with these customers. If we were involved in any product liability litigation, even if it were unsuccessful, would be time consuming and costly to defend. Further, our product liability insurance may not be adequate to cover claims. 11 Our Sales Through Retail Merchants Result In Seasonality And Susceptibility To A Downturn In The Retail Economy And Sales Variances Resulting From Retail Promotional Programs. A significant amount of our net sales, $13,437,337, is the result of Korona's sales of bathroom and kitchen scales to retail merchants in Europe. In addition, many of our other customers sell to retail merchants. Accordingly, these portions of our customer base are susceptible to a downturn in the retail economy. A greater number of our sales of scales and telecommunications products occur between the months of April and September for shipment in the summer in preparation of the Christmas holiday. Throughout the remainder of the year, our products do not appear to be subject to significant seasonal variation. However, past sales patterns may not be indicative of future performance. A significant portion of our sales in Europe is attributable to the promotional programs of our retail industry customers. These promotional programs result in significant orders by customers who do not carry our products on a regular basis. We cannot assure you that promotional purchases by our retail industry customers will be repeated regularly, or at all. Further, our promotional sales could cause our quarterly results to vary significantly. The reduction in promotional purchases would likely have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. Our Customers Are Dependent On Shipping Companies For Delivery Of Our Products And Interruptions To Shipping Could Materially And Adversely Affect Our Business And Operating Results. Typically, we sell our products either F.O.B. Hong Kong or Yantian (Shenzhen) and our customers are responsible for the transportation of products from Hong Kong or Yantian (Shenzhen) to their final destinations. Our customers rely on a variety of carriers for product transportation through various world ports. A work stoppage, strike or shutdown of one or more major ports or airports could result in shipping delays materially and adversely affecting our customers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Similarly, an increase in freight surcharges due to rising fuel costs or general price increases could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Customer Order Estimates May Not Be Indicative Of Actual Future Sales. Some of our customers have provided us with forecasts of their requirements for our products over a period of time. We make many management decisions based on these customer estimates, including purchasing materials, hiring personnel, and other matters that may increase our production capacity and costs. If a customer reduces its orders from prior estimates after we have increased our production capabilities and costs, this reduction may decrease our net sales and we may not be able to reduce our costs to account for this reduction in customer orders. Many customers do not provide us with forecasts of their requirements for our products. If those customers place significant orders, we may not be able to increase our production quickly enough to fulfill the customers' orders. The inability to fulfill customer orders could damage our relationships with customers and reduce our net sales. Pressure By Our Customers To Reduce Prices And Agree To Long-Term Supply Arrangements May Cause Our Net Sales Or Profit Margins To Decline. Our customers are under pressure to reduce prices of their products. Therefore, we expect to experience increasing pressure from our customers to reduce the prices of our products. Continuing pressure to reduce the price of our products could have a material adverse effect upon our business and operating results. Our customers frequently negotiate supply arrangements with us well in advance of placing 12 orders for delivery within a year, thereby requiring us to commit to price reductions before we can determine if we can achieve the assumed cost reductions. We believe we must reduce our manufacturing costs and obtain higher volume orders to offset declining average sales prices. Further, if we are unable to offset declining average sales prices, our gross profit margins will decline which would have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. We Depend Upon Our Key Personnel And The Loss Of Any Key Personnel, Or Our Failure To Attract And Retain Key Personnel, Could Adversely Affect Our Future Performance, Including Product Development, Strategic Plans, Marketing And Other Objectives. The loss or failure to attract and retain key personnel could significantly impede our performance, including product development, strategic plans, marketing and other objectives. Our success depends to a substantial extent not only on the ability and experience of our senior management, but particularly upon Anthony So our Chairman of the Board. We do not have key man life insurance on Mr. So. To the extent that the services of Mr. So would be unavailable to us, we would be required to obtain another person to perform the duties Mr. So otherwise would perform. We may be unable to employ another qualified person with the appropriate background and expertise to replace Mr. So on terms suitable to us. Certain Subsidiaries of The Company Received on-going Enquiries from the Local Tax Authorities During the Year. If The Subsidiaries Were Finally Held Liable For Such Additional Taxation, Our Consolidated Net Income And The Value Of Your Investment Could Be Substantially Reduced. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, certain of our subsidiaries were and continue to be subject to enquiries from the local tax authorities. We have made an assessment under SFAS 5 "Accounting for Contingencies" and believed that no additional income tax expense was necessary as of March 31, 2007, as the relevant tax authority was still in the information gathering stage on their enquiries and it was practically difficult to have a reasonable estimate of the possible outcome of these enquiries at this stage. We believe we have a reasonable likelihood of success with respect to these enquiries. There can be no assurance that the enquiry will not result in imposing additional income tax expense on the Group, which could have a material adverse effect upon the Group and its results of operations. The Company will adopt FIN 48 "Accounting for uncertainty in income taxes" effective from April 1, 2007, the amount of income tax provisions required under FIN 48 could be significantly different. Contractual Arrangements We Have Entered Into Among Us and Our Subsidiaries May Be Subject To Scrutiny By The Respective Tax Authorities And A Finding That Bonso And Its Subsidiaries Owe Additional Taxes Could Substantially Reduce Our Consolidated Net Income And The Value Of Your Investment. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the respective tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements among our subsidiaries and Bonso do not represent an arm's length price and adjust Bonso or any of its subsidiaries' income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction, for tax purposes, of expense deductions recorded by Bonso or any of its subsidiaries, which could in turn increase its tax liabilities. In addition, the tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties to our affiliated entities for under-paid taxes. Our consolidated net income may be materially and adversely 13 affected if our affiliated entities' tax liabilities increase or if they are found to be subject to late payment fees or other penalties. The Company will adopt FIN 48 effective from April 1, 2007, the amount of income tax provisions required under FIN 48 could be significantly different. Increased Prices for Raw Materials May have a negative impact upon us. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006 and 2007, the costs of component parts increased due to the increase in the price of oil used in the production of components such as plastic resin, steel and other raw materials. If oil prices continue to increase, it will likely result in an increase in the costs of components to us as well as an increase in our operating expenses, which may have a material adverse effect upon our business and results of operations. We May Face an Increased Shortage of Factory Workers. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2005, March 31, 2006 and March 31, 2007, we experienced labor shortages for factory workers. Due to increases in demand for workers in China, we cannot assure you that we can adequately staff the factory. The ability to adequately staff our factory could have a material impact on production, which could lead to delays in shipments or missed sales. In the event that we have delayed or lost sales, we may need to deliver goods by air to ensure that our products arrive on time, which would likely result in an increase in air freight costs, vendor fines and could result in missed sales, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business and our results from operations. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008, we will reduce the labour requirements by sub-contracting out some production processes that our sub-contractor have a competitive advantage in the cost of production. We will benefit from the lower cost of production and higher business flexibility. We Face Increasing Competition in Our Industry and May not be able to successfully compete with our competitors. Our business is in an industry that is becoming increasingly competitive, and many of our competitors, both local and international, have substantially greater technical, financial and marketing resources than we have, and as a result, we may be unable to compete successfully with these competitors. We compete with scale manufacturers in the Far East, the United States, and Europe. We believe that our principal competitors in the scale and telecommunications market are other OEM and original design manufacturer "ODM" manufacturers, and all companies engaged in the branded, ODM and OEM business. Both the scale and the telecommunications markets are highly competitive and we face pressures on pricing and lower margins as evidenced by the decline in margins that we have experienced with our telecommunications products. Lower margins may affect our ability to cover our costs which could have a material negative impact on our operations and our business. We Are Controlled By Our Management, Whose Interest May Differ From Those Of The Other Shareholders. At the present time, Mr. Anthony So, our founder and Chairman, beneficially owns approximately 36.41% of the outstanding shares of common stock, including shares underlying his outstanding options, or 29.16% without including his outstanding options. Due to his stock ownership, Mr. So may be in a position to elect the board of directors and, therefore, to control our business and affairs including certain significant corporate actions such as acquisitions, the sale or purchase of assets and the issuance and sale of our securities. Mr. So may be able to prevent or cause a change in control. We also 14 may be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us without Mr. So's consent. The interest of our largest shareholder may differ from the interests of other shareholders. Compliance costs with recently enacted changes in the securities laws and regulations pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that became law in July 2002 has required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure, accounting and compliance practices. In response to the requirements of that act, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ have promulgated new rules on a variety of subjects. Compliance with these new rules as well as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has increased our legal, financial and accounting costs, and we expect the cost of compliance with these new rules to continue to increase and to be permanent. Further, the new rules may increase the expenses associated with our director and officer liability insurance. Our Operating Results And Stock Price Are Subject To Wide Fluctuations. Our quarterly and annual operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could materially and adversely affect net sales, gross profit and profitability. This could result from any one or a combination of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of results to be expected in any future period, and fluctuations in operating results may also result in fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. Our Results Could be Affected By Changes In Currency Exchange Rates. Changes in currency rates involving the Canadian Dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Chinese Renminbi, British Pounds or the Euro could increase our expenses. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, our financial results were affected by currency fluctuations, resulting in a total foreign exchange loss of $98,051, $183,887 and $183,952, respectively. Generally, our revenues are collected in United States Dollars, Euros and Canadian Dollars. Our costs and expenses are paid in United States Dollars, Canadian Dollars, Hong Kong Dollars, British Pound, Euros and Chinese Renminbi. We face a variety of risks associated with changes among the relative value of these currencies. An appreciation of the Canadian Dollar, Chinese Renminbi, Hong Kong Dollar, British Pound, or the Euro against the U.S. Dollar would increase our expenses when translated into U.S. Dollars and could materially and adversely affect our margins and results of operations. In addition, a significant devaluation in the Canadian Dollar, Chinese Renminbi, Hong Kong Dollar, British Pound or Euro could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations if it destabilizes the economy of Canada, China, Hong Kong, Great Britain or the European Union. Protection And Infringement Of Intellectual Property. Except for three patents held by Gram Precision, the trademark for KORONA and twelve trademarks currently held by Gram Precision, we have no patents, licenses, franchises, concessions or royalty agreements that are material to our business. We have obtained a trademark registration in Hong Kong and China for the marks BONSO and MODUS in connection with certain electronic apparatus. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or trademarks or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our 15 products is difficult. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary rights may allow third parties to duplicate our products or develop functionally equivalent or superior technology. In addition, our competitors may independently develop similar technology or design around our proprietary intellectual property. Further, we may be notified that we are infringing patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights owned by other parties. In the event of an infringement claim, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to develop a non-infringing alternative or to obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing such an alternative or obtaining a license on reasonable terms, if at all. Any litigation, even without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations. Cancellations Or Delays In Orders Could Materially And Adversely Affect Our Gross Margins And Operating Income. Sales to our OEM customers are primarily based on purchase orders we receive from time to time rather than firm, long-term purchase commitments. Although it is our general practice to purchase raw materials only upon receiving a purchase order, for certain customers we will occasionally purchase raw materials based on such customers' rolling forecasts. Further, during times of potential component shortages we have purchased, and may continue to purchase, raw materials and component parts in the expectation of receiving purchase orders for products that use these components. In the event actual purchase orders are delayed, are not received or are cancelled, we would experience increased inventory levels or possible write-downs of raw material inventory that could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We Generally Have No Written Agreements With Suppliers To Obtain Components And Our Margins And Operating Results Could Suffer From Increases In Component Prices. We are typically responsible for purchasing components used in manufacturing products for our customers. We generally do not have written agreements with our suppliers of components. This typically results in our bearing the risk of component price increases because we may be unable to procure the required materials at a price level necessary to generate anticipated margins from the orders of our customers. Further, prices of components have increased recently based upon the increase in oil prices and what management believes to be a high worldwide demand for components used in the manufacturing of our products. Accordingly, additional increases in component prices could materially and adversely affect our gross margins and results from operations. Certain Legal Consequences of Foreign Incorporation and Operations Judgments Against The Company And Management May Be Difficult To Obtain Or Enforce. We are a holding corporation organized as an International Business Company under the laws of the British Virgin Islands and our principal operating subsidiaries are organized under the laws of Hong Kong and the laws of the Peoples' Republic of China. Our principal executive offices are located in Hong Kong and the Peoples' Republic of China, Korona is located in Germany and Gram Precision is located in Canada. Outside the United States, it may be difficult 16 for investors to enforce judgments obtained against us in actions brought in the United States, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of federal securities laws. In addition, most of our officers and directors reside outside the United States and the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons, or to enforce against the Company or these persons judgments predicated upon the liability provisions of United States federal securities laws. Our Hong Kong counsel and our British Virgin Islands counsel have advised that there is substantial doubt as to the enforceability against us or any of our directors or officers in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts in claims for liability based on the civil liability provisions of federal securities laws. Because We Are Incorporated In The British Virgin Islands, You May Not Have The Same Protections As Shareholders Of U.S. Corporations. We are organized under the laws of the British Virgin Islands. Principles of law relating to matters affecting the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of our management, directors and controlling shareholders and the rights of our shareholders differ from, and may not be as protective of shareholders as, those that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States. Our directors have the power to take certain actions without shareholder approval, including an amendment of our Memorandum or Articles of Association and certain fundamental corporate transactions, including reorganizations, certain mergers or consolidations and the sale or transfer of assets. In addition, there is doubt that the courts of the British Virgin Islands would enforce liabilities predicated upon United States federal securities laws. Future issuances of preference shares could materially and adversely affect the holders of our common shares or delay or prevent a change of control. Our Memorandum and Articles of Association provide the ability to issue an aggregate of 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in four classes. While currently no preferred shares are issued or outstanding, we may issue preferred shares in the future. Future issuance of preferred shares could materially and adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common shares, dilute the common shareholders or delay or prevent a change of control. Our Shareholders Do Not Have The Same Protections Or Information Generally Available To Shareholders Of U.S. Corporations Because The Reporting Requirements For Foreign Private Issuers Are More Limited Than Those Applicable To Public Corporations Organized In The United States. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. We are not subject to certain provisions of the Exchange Act applicable to United States public companies including: the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K, the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect to a security registered under the Exchange Act and the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any "short-swing" trading transaction (i.e., a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer's equity securities within six months or less). Because we are not subject to these rules, our shareholders are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors in public companies organized in the United States. 17 Our Board's Ability To Amend Our Charter Without Shareholder Approval Could Have Anti-Takeover Effects That Could Prevent A Change In Control. As permitted by the law of the British Virgin Islands, our Memorandum and Articles of Association, which are the terms used in the British Virgin Islands for a corporation's charter and bylaws, may be amended by our board of directors without shareholder approval. This includes amendments to increase or reduce our authorized capital stock. Our board's ability to amend our charter documents without shareholder approval could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of Bonso, including a tender offer to purchase our common shares at a premium over the current market price. We May Not Pay Dividends In The Future. Although we have declared dividends on April 2, 2003 and July 13, 2004 and July 12, 2005 and August 22, 2006, we may not be able to declare dividends or the board of directors may decide not to declare dividends in the future. We will determine the amounts of any dividends when and if they are declared, in the future at the time of declaration. 