Item 1A. Risk Factors The concentration of our loan portfolio in loans secured by commercial and residential real estate properties located in eastern Long Island could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations if general economic conditions or real estate values in this area decline. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, the Bank’s loan portfolio consists primarily of real estate loans secured by commercial and residential real estate properties located in the Bank’s principal lending area in Suffolk County which is located on eastern Long Island. The local economic conditions on eastern Long Island have a significant impact on the volume of loan originations and the quality of our loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans, and the value of collateral securing these loans. A considerable decline in the general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would impact these local economic conditions and could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, while we have a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, the majority of which are owner-occupied, decreases in tenant occupancy may also have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. Changes in interest rates could affect our profitability. The Bank’s ability to earn a profit, like most financial institutions, depends primarily on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that the Bank earns on its interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and the interest expense that the Bank pays on its interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. The Bank’s profitability depends on its ability to manage its assets and liabilities during periods of changing market interest rates. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on the Bank’s assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on its liabilities. In an increasing interest rate environment, the Bank’s cost of funds is expected to increase more rapidly than interest earned on its loan and investment portfolio as its primary source of funds is deposits with generally shorter maturities than those on its loans and investments. This makes the balance sheet more liability sensitive in the short term. A sustained decrease in market interest rates could adversely affect the Bank’s earnings. When interest rates decline, borrowers tend to refinance higher-rate, fixed-rate loans at lower rates. Under those circumstances, the Bank would not be able to reinvest those prepayments in assets earning interest rates as high as the rates on those prepaid loans or in investment securities. In addition, the majority of the Bank’s loans are at variable interest rates, which would adjust to lower rates. Changes in interest rates also affect the fair value of our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. As of December 31, 2012, our securities portfolio totaled $739.8 million. Page -7- Table of Contents In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the federal prohibition on paying interest on demand deposits effective July 21, 2011, thus allowing businesses to have interest-bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this change to existing law could increase our interest expense. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. The Bank’s market area is located in Suffolk County on eastern Long Island and its customer base is mainly located in the towns of East Hampton, Southampton, Southold and Riverhead. Since 2009, the Bank has expanded its market areas to include branches in the towns of Brookhaven, Babylon and Islip. During 2012, the Bank opened two new branches: one in June located in Ronkonkoma, New York and one in December 2012 located in Hauppauge, New York. The Bank also opened administrative offices in December 2012 in Hauppauge, New York, to better service customers as the Bank continues to move westward. Competition in the banking and financial services industry remains intense. The profitability of the Bank depends on the continued ability to successfully compete. The Bank competes with commercial banks, savings banks, credit unions, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Bank and may offer certain services that the Bank does not provide. In addition, competitors may offer deposits at higher rates and loans with lower fixed rates, more attractive terms and less stringent credit structures than the Bank has been willing to offer. Furthermore, the high cost of living on the twin forks of eastern Long Island creates increased competition for the recruitment and retention of qualified staff. Our future success depends on the success and growth of The Bridgehampton National Bank. Our primary business activity for the foreseeable future will be to act as the holding company of the Bank. Therefore, our future profitability will depend on the success and growth of this subsidiary. The continued and successful implementation of our growth strategy will require, among other things, that we increase our market share by attracting new customers that currently bank at other financial institutions in our market area. In addition, our ability to successfully grow will depend on several factors, including favorable market conditions, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market area, and our ability to maintain high asset quality. While we believe we have the management resources, market opportunities and internal systems in place to obtain and successfully manage future growth, growth opportunities may not be available and we may not be successful in continuing our growth strategy. In addition, continued growth requires that we incur additional expenses, including salaries, data processing and occupancy expense related to new branches and related support staff. Many of these increased expenses are considered fixed expenses. Unless we can successfully continue our growth, our results of operations could be negatively affected by these increased costs. Finally, our growth is also affected by the seasonality of our markets in Eastern Long Island, including the Hamptons and North Fork, a region that is a recreational destination for the New York metropolitan area, and a highly regarded resort locale world-wide. This seasonality results in more economic activity in the summer months and decrease activity in the off season, which can adversely impact the consistency and sustainability of growth. The loss of key personnel could impair our future success. Our future success depends in part on the continued service of our executive officers, other key management, as well as our staff, and on our ability to continue to attract, motivate, and retain additional highly qualified employees. The loss of services of one or more of our key personnel or our inability to timely recruit replacements for such personnel, or to otherwise attract, motivate, or retain qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated environment. The Bank and Company are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, the FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board and the SEC. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which a financial institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the consumer rather than for the protection of shareholders. Recently regulators have intensified their focus on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area as well as other areas of the Bank’s operations, we have been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. We cannot be certain that the policies, procedures, and systems we have in place are effective and there is no assurance that in every instance we are in full compliance with these requirements. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, may have a material impact on our operations. We may be adversely affected by current economic and market conditions. The national and global economic downturn that began in 2007 has resulted in unprecedented levels of financial market volatility which depressed the market value of financial institutions, limited access to capital and/or had a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of banking companies. Since 2008, significant declines in the values of mortgage-backed securities and derivative securities of financial institutions, government sponsored entities, and major commercial and investment banks has led to decreased confidence in financial markets among borrowers, lenders, and depositors, as well as disruption and Page -8- Table of Contents extreme volatility in the capital and credit markets and the failure of some entities in the financial sector. As a result, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased to provide funding to borrowers. While financial markets appear to be stabilizing, and there are a few positive signs of economic recovery, including increased local real estate activity, economic uncertainty remains. Unemployment rates are high and consumer confidence is low. While the timing of an economic recovery remains unknown, this may have an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Turbulence in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. Increases to the allowance for credit losses may cause our earnings to decrease. Our customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. Hence, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, we rely on loan quality reviews, past loss experience, and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance through charges to earnings would materially decrease our net income. Bank regulators periodically review our allowance for credit losses and may require us to increase our provision for credit losses or loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for credit losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and/or financial condition. The trust preferred securities that we issued have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders. The conversion of the trust preferred securities into shares of our common stock could result in dilution of your investment. In October 2009 we issued $16 million of 8.5% cumulative convertible trust preferred securities from a special purpose trust, and we issued an identical amount of junior subordinated debentures to this trust. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are conditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures that we issued to the trust are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the obligations with respect to the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock. In addition, each $1,000 in liquidation amount of the trust preferred securities currently is convertible, at the option of the holder, into 32.2581 shares of our common stock. The conversion of these securities into shares of our common stock would dilute the ownership interests of purchasers of our common stock in this offering. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will, among other things, tighten capital standards, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our cost of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act is significantly changing the bank regulatory structure and is impacting the largest financial institutions as well as regional banks and community banks. The federal regulatory agencies, specifically the SEC and the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing regulations. The major bank-related provisions under the Dodd-Frank Act pertain to: capital requirements; mortgage reform and minimum lending standards; consumer financial protection bureau; sale of mortgage loans (including risk retention requirements); FDIC insurance-related provisions; preemption standards for national banks; abolishment of the Office of Thrift Supervision; interchange fee for debit card transactions; Volcker Rule; regulation of derivatives/swaps; Financial Services Oversight Council; resolution authority; and corporate governance matters (e.g.; “say on pay”; new executive compensation disclosure and clawbacks, etc.). Given the range of topics in the Dodd-Frank Act and the voluminous regulations required to implement by the Dodd-Frank Act, the full impact will not be known for some time. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act impacted banks upon enactment of the legislation. Examples of this were the permanent increase of FDIC deposit insurance limits, the FDIC Assessment Base calculation change and the removal of the cap for the Deposit Insurance Fund, all of which in turn affected banks’ FDIC deposit insurance premiums. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near-term effect on us. For example, a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest-bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could increase our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection Page -9- Table of Contents laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets will be examined by their applicable bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the many yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and anticipated new capital rules are uncertain. On June 7, 2012, the Federal Reserve Board issued proposed rules that would substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to us. The OCC subsequently approved these proposed rules on June 12, 2012. The proposed rules implement the “Basel III” regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Basel III was initially intended to be implemented beginning January 1, 2013, however on November 9, 2012, the U.S. federal banking agencies announced that the proposed rules would not become effective on January 1, 2013, and it is not clear when the proposed rules will become effective. Various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act increase the capital requirements of financial institutions. The proposed rules include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which would be phased in during 2013 and 2014, and would refine the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating these ratios. The proposed new minimum capital requirements would be: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The proposed rules would also establish a “capital conservation buffer” of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios, and would result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement would be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution would be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations would establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. While the proposed Basel III changes and other regulatory capital requirements will result in higher regulatory capital standards, it is difficult at this time to predict when or how any new standards will ultimately be applied. In addition, in the current economic and regulatory environment, bank regulators may impose capital requirements that are more stringent than those required by applicable existing regulations. The application of more stringent capital requirements could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital or additional capital conservation buffers, could result in management modifying our business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying dividends or buying back our shares. Risks associated with system failures, interruptions, or breaches of security could negatively affect our earnings. Information technology systems are critical to our business. We use various technology systems to manage our customer relationships, general ledger, securities investments, deposits, and loans. We have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of system failures, interruptions, and security breaches, but such events may still occur or may not be adequately addressed if they do occur. In addition, any compromise of our systems could deter customers from using our products and services. Although we rely on security systems to provide security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of security. In addition, we outsource a majority of our data processing to certain third-party providers. If these third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely affected. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. The occurrence of any system failures, interruption, or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business thereby subjecting us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Page -10- Table of Contents Severe Weather, Acts of Terrorism and Other External Events Could Impact Our Ability to Conduct Business Recent weather-related events have adversely impacted our market area, especially areas located near coastal waters and flood prone areas. Such events that may cause significant flooding and other storm-related damage may become more common events in the future. Financial institutions have been, and continue to be, targets of terrorist threats aimed at compromising operating and communication systems and the metropolitan New York area remain central targets for potential acts of terrorism. Such events could cause significant damage, impact the stability of our facilities and result in additional expenses, impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, reduce the value of collateral securing repayment of our loans, and result in the loss of revenue. While we have established and regularly test disaster recovery procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 