Item 1A. Risk Factors Concentration of Loan Portfolio The Bank generally invests a significant portion of its assets in loans secured by commercial and residential real estate properties located in eastern Long Island. A downturn in real estate values and economic conditions on eastern Long Island could have a significant impact on the value of collateral securing the loans as well as the ability for the repayment of loans. See a further discussion in “Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Financial Condition – Loans.” Changes in Interest Rates Could Affect Profitability The ability to earn a profit, like most financial institutions, depends on the net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that the Bank earns on its interest-bearing assets, such as loans and investments, and the interest expense that the Bank pays on its interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. The Bank’s profitability depends on its ability to manage its assets and liabilities during periods of changing market interest rates. A sustained decrease in market interest rates could adversely affect the Bank’s earnings. When interest rates decline, borrowers tend to refinance higher-rate, fixed-rate loans at lower rates. Under those circumstances, the Bank would not be able to reinvest those prepayments in assets earning interest rates as high as the rates on those prepaid loans or in investment securities. In addition, the majority of the Bank’s loans are at variable interest rates, which would adjust to lower rates. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on the Bank’s assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on its liabilities. In an increasing interest rate environment, the Bank’s cost of funds is expected to increase more rapidly than interest earned on its loan and investment portfolio as the primary source of funds is deposits with generally shorter maturities than those on its loans and investments. This makes the balance sheet more liability sensitive in the short term. Page -8- Table of Contents Geographic Location and Competition The Bank’s market area is located in Suffolk County on eastern Long Island and its customer base is mainly located in the towns of East Hampton, Southampton, Southold and Riverhead. In 2009, the Bank expanded its market areas to include a branch in Shirley, New York located in the town of Brookhaven. In 2010, the Bank continued to expand westward to Center Moriches and Patchogue, New York located in the Town of Brookhaven and Deer Park, New York located within the town of Babylon. Competition in the banking and financial services industry remains intense. The profitability of the Bank depends on the continued ability to successfully compete. The Bank competes with commercial banks, savings banks, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Bank and may offer certain services that the Bank does not provide. In addition, competitors may offer deposits at higher rates and loans with lower fixed rates, more attractive terms and less stringent credit structures than the Bank has been willing to offer. Furthermore, the high cost of living on the twin forks of eastern Long Island creates staff recruitment and retention challenges. The Company’s Future Depends on Successful Growth of its Subsidiary The Company’s primary business activity for the foreseeable future will be to act as the holding company of the Bank. Therefore, the Company’s future profitability will depend on the success and growth of this subsidiary. The Loss of Key Personnel Could Impair our Future Success Our future success depends in part on the continued service of our executive officers, other key management, as well as our staff, and on our ability to continue to attract, motivate, and retain additional highly qualified employees. The loss of services of one or more of our key personnel or our inability to timely recruit replacements for such personnel, or to otherwise attract, motivate, or retain qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Highly Regulated Environment The Bank and Company are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board and the SEC. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a financial institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the consumer. Recently regulators have intensified their focus on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area as well as other areas of the Bank, we have been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. We cannot be certain that the policies, procedures, and systems we have in place are flawless and there is no assurance that in every instance we are in full compliance with these requirements. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, may have a material impact on our operations. We May Be Adversely Affected By Current Economic and Market Conditions The national and global economic downturn that began in 2007 has resulted in unprecedented levels of financial market volatility which depressed the market value of financial institutions, limited access to capital or had a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of banking companies. Since 2008 significant declines in the values of mortgage-backed securities and derivative securities by financial institutions, government sponsored entities, and major commercial and investment banks has led to decreased confidence in financial markets among borrowers, lenders, and depositors, as well as disruption and extreme volatility in the capital and credit markets and the failure of some entities in the financial sector. As a result, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased to provide funding to borrowers. While financial markets appear to be stabilizing and there are a few positive signs of economic recovery including increased local real estate activity, economic uncertainty remains. Unemployment rates are high and consumer confidence is low. While the timing of an economic recovery remains unknown this may have an adverse affect on the Company. Turbulence in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. Increases to the Allowance for Credit Losses May Cause Our Earnings to Decrease Our customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. Hence, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, we rely on loan quality reviews, past loss experience, and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease our net income. Page -9- Table of Contents Bank regulators periodically review our allowance for credit losses and may require us to increase our provision for credit losses or loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for credit losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and/or financial condition. Increases in FDIC Insurance Premiums May Cause Our Earnings to Decrease On February 27, 2009, the FDIC issued a final rule, effective April 1, 2009, to change the way that the FDIC’s assessment system differentiates for risk and to set new assessment rates beginning with the second quarter of 2009. In May 2009, the FDIC issued a final rule to impose an emergency special assessment of 5 basis points on all banks based on their total assets less tier one capital as of June 30, 2009. The special assessment was payable on September 30, 2009. During the second quarter of 2009, the Company recorded an expense of $0.4 million related to the FDIC special assessment. In November 2009, the FDIC issued a final rule that required insured institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The FDIC also adopted a uniform 3 basis point increase in assessment rates effective on January 1, 2011. The Company’s prepayment of FDIC assessments on December 31, 2009 was $3.8 million which will be amortized to expense over three years. This, along with the full utilization or our assessment credit in early 2008 and the increase in FDIC insurance rates, caused the premiums assessed by the FDIC to increase. These actions significantly increased the Bank’s expense in 2009. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was signed by the President. Section 331(b) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act requires the FDIC to change the definition of the assessment base from which assessment fees are determined. The new definition for the assessment base is the average consolidated total assets of the insured depository institution less the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution. A reduction in the assessment rate is anticipated since the assessment base will increase for most institutions. The new methodology becomes effective on April 1, 2011 and the Company anticipates a reduction of approximately $0.3 million in its FDIC assessment fees for 2011. While the Bank anticipates lower fees than 2010, the expense has increased compared to 2008 and will continue to affect earnings in future years as long as the increased premiums are in place. Financial Reform Legislation Financial reform legislation recently enacted will, among other things, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, tighten capital standards and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. On July 21, 2010 the President signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). This new law will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impacts of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act requires minimum leverage (Tier 1) and risk based capital requirements for bank and savings and loan holding companies that are no less than those applicable to banks, which will exclude certain instruments that previously have been eligible for inclusion by bank holding companies as Tier 1 capital, such as trust preferred securities (“TPS”). TPS issued before May 19, 2010 by a bank holding company that had total assets of less than $15 billion as of December 31, 2009 are permanently grandfathered. The new law provides that the Office of Thrift Supervision will cease to exist one year from the date of the new law’s enactment. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which is currently the primary federal regulator for national banks, will become the primary federal regulator for federal thrifts. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System will supervise and regulate all savings and loan holding companies that were formerly regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Effective one year after the date of enactment is a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act that eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation deposit insurance assessments. Assessments will now be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution, rather than deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2009, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The legislation also increases the required minimum reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund, from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits, and directs the FDIC to offset the effects of increased assessments on depository institutions with less than $10 billion in assets. Page -10- Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Act will require publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and authorizes the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. It also provides that the listing standards of the national securities exchanges shall require listed companies to implement and disclose “clawback” policies mandating the recovery of incentive compensation paid to executive officers in connection with accounting restatements. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 