Item 1A. Risk Factors The concentration of our loan portfolio in loans secured by commercial and residential real estate properties located in eastern Long Island could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations if general economic conditions or real estate values in this area decline. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, the Bank’s loan portfolio consists primarily of real estate loans secured by commercial and residential real estate properties located in the Bank’s principal lending area in Suffolk County which is located on eastern Long Island. The local economic conditions on eastern Long Island have a significant impact on the volume of loan originations and the quality of our loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans, and the value of collateral securing these loans. A considerable decline in the general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would impact these local economic conditions and could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, while we have a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, the majority of which are owner-occupied, decreases in tenant occupancy may also have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. Changes in interest rates could affect our profitability. The Bank’s ability to earn a profit, like most financial institutions, depends primarily on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that the Bank earns on its interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and the interest expense that the Bank pays on its interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. The Bank’s profitability depends on its ability to manage its assets and liabilities during periods of changing market interest rates. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on the Bank’s assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on its liabilities. In an increasing interest rate environment, the Bank’s cost of funds is expected to increase more rapidly than interest earned on its loan and investment portfolio as its primary source of funds is deposits with generally shorter maturities than those on its loans and investments. This makes the balance sheet more liability sensitive in the short term. A sustained decrease in market interest rates could adversely affect the Bank’s earnings. When interest rates decline, borrowers tend to refinance higher-rate, fixed-rate loans at lower rates. Under those circumstances, the Bank would not be able to reinvest those prepayments in assets earning interest rates as high as the rates on those prepaid loans or in investment securities. In addition, the majority of the Bank’s loans are at variable interest rates, which would adjust to lower rates. Changes in interest rates also affect the fair value of our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. As of December 31, 2011, our securities portfolio totaled $610.6 million. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act eliminated the federal prohibition on paying interest on demand deposits effective July 21, 2011, thus allowing businesses to have interest-bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this change to existing law could increase our interest expense. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. The Bank’s market area is located in Suffolk County on eastern Long Island and its customer base is mainly located in the towns of East Hampton, Southampton, Southold and Riverhead. In 2009, the Bank expanded its market areas to include a branch in Shirley, New York located in the town of Brookhaven. In 2010, the Bank continued to expand westward to Center Moriches and Patchogue, New York located in the town of Brookhaven, New York and Deer Park, New York located within the town of Babylon. Competition in the banking and financial services industry remains intense. The profitability of the Bank depends on the continued ability to successfully compete. The Bank competes with commercial banks, savings banks, credit unions, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Bank and may offer certain services that the Bank does not provide. In addition, competitors may offer deposits at higher rates and loans with lower fixed rates, more attractive terms and less stringent credit structures than the Bank has been willing to offer. Furthermore, the high cost of living on the twin forks of eastern Long Island creates increased competition for the recruitment and retention of qualified staff. Our future success depends on the success and growth of The Bridgehampton National Bank. Our primary business activity for the foreseeable future will be to act as the holding company of the Bank. Therefore, our future profitability will depend on the success and growth of this subsidiary. The continued and successful implementation of our growth strategy will require, among other things, that we increase our market share by attracting new customers that currently bank at other financial institutions in our market area. In addition, our ability to successfully grow will depend on several factors, including favorable market conditions, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market area, and our ability to maintain high asset quality. While we believe we have the management resources, market opportunities and internal systems in place to obtain and successfully manage future growth, growth opportunities may not be available and we may not be successful in continuing our Page -7- Table of Contents growth strategy. In addition, continued growth requires that we incur additional expenses, including salaries and occupancy expense related to new branches and related support staff. Many of these increased expenses are considered fixed expenses. Unless we can successfully continue our growth, our results of operations could be negatively affected by these increased costs. Finally, our growth is also affected by the seasonality of our markets in Eastern Long Island, including the Hamptons and North Fork, a region that is a recreational destination for the New York metropolitan area, and a highly regarded resort locale world-wide. This seasonality results in more economic activity in the summer months and decrease activity in the off season, which can adversely impact the consistency and sustainability of growth. The loss of key personnel could impair our future success. Our future success depends in part on the continued service of our executive officers, other key management, as well as our staff, and on our ability to continue to attract, motivate, and retain additional highly qualified employees. The loss of services of one or more of our key personnel or our inability to timely recruit replacements for such personnel, or to otherwise attract, motivate, or retain qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated environment. The Bank and Company are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, the FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board and the SEC. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which a financial institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the consumer rather than for the protection of shareholders. Recently regulators have intensified their focus on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area as well as other areas of the Bank’s operations, we have been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. We cannot be certain that the policies, procedures, and systems we have in place are effective and there is no assurance that in every instance we are in full compliance with these requirements. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, may have a material impact on our operations. We may be adversely affected by current economic and market conditions. The national and global economic downturn that began in 2007 has resulted in unprecedented levels of financial market volatility which depressed the market value of financial institutions, limited access to capital and/or had a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of banking companies. Since 2008, significant declines in the values of mortgage-backed securities and derivative securities of financial institutions, government sponsored entities, and major commercial and investment banks has led to decreased confidence in financial markets among borrowers, lenders, and depositors, as well as disruption and extreme volatility in the capital and credit markets and the failure of some entities in the financial sector. As a result, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased to provide funding to borrowers. While financial markets appear to be stabilizing, and there are a few positive signs of economic recovery, including increased local real estate activity, economic uncertainty remains. Unemployment rates are high and consumer confidence is low. While the timing of an economic recovery remains unknown, this may have an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Turbulence in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. Increases to the allowance for credit losses may cause our earnings to decrease. Our customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. Hence, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, we rely on loan quality reviews, past loss experience, and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance through charges to earnings would materially decrease our net income. Bank regulators periodically review our allowance for credit losses and may require us to increase our provision for credit losses or loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for credit losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and/or financial condition. The trust preferred securities that we issued have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders. The conversion of the trust preferred securities into shares of our common stock could result in dilution of your investment. In October 2009 we issued $16 million of 8.5% cumulative convertible trust preferred securities from a special purpose trust, and we issued an identical amount of junior subordinated debentures to this trust. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred Page -8- Table of Contents securities are conditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures that we issued to the trust are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the obligations with respect to the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock. In addition, each $1,000 in liquidation amount of the trust preferred securities currently is convertible, at the option of the holder, into 32.2581 shares of our common stock. The conversion of these securities into shares of our common stock would dilute the ownership interests of purchasers of our common stock in this offering. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will, among other things, tighten capital standards, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our cost of operations. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) is significantly changing the bank regulatory structure and is affecting the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near-term effect on us. For example, a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest-bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could increase our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets will be examined by their applicable bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the many yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of our information systems, we cannot assure you that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 