Item 1A. Risk Factors Concentration of Loan Portfolio The Bank generally invests a significant portion of its assets in loans secured by commercial and residential real estate properties located in eastern Long Island. A downturn in real estate values and economic conditions on eastern Long Island could have a significant impact on the value of collateral securing the loans as well as the ability for the repayment of loans. See a further discussion in “Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Financial Condition – Loans.” Changes in Interest Rates Could Affect Profitability The ability to earn a profit, like most financial institutions, depends on the net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that the Bank earns on its interest-bearing assets, such as loans and investments, and the interest expense which we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. The Bank’s profitability depends on its ability to manage its assets and liabilities during periods of changing market interest rates. A sustained decrease in market interest rates could adversely affect the Bank’s earnings. When interest rates decline, borrowers tend to refinance higher-rate, fixed-rate loans at lower rates. Under those circumstances, the Bank would not be able to reinvest those prepayments in assets earning interest rates as high as the rates on those prepaid loans or in investment securities. In addition, the majority of the Bank’s loans are at variable interest rates, which would adjust to lower rates. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on the Bank’s assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on its liabilities. In an increasing interest rate environment, the Bank’s cost of funds is expected to increase more rapidly than interest earned on its loan and investment portfolio as the primary source of funds is deposits with generally shorter maturities than those on its loans and investments. This makes the balance sheet more liability sensitive in the short term. Geographic Location and Competition The Bank’s market area is located on eastern Long Island and its customer base is mainly located in the towns of East Hampton, Southampton, Southold and Riverhead. In 2009, the Bank will expand its market areas to include branches in Shirley, New York located in the town of Brookhaven and in Deer Park, New York located within the town of Babylon. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. The profitability of the Bank depends on the continued ability to successfully compete. The Bank competes with commercial banks, savings banks, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Bank and may offer certain services that the Bank does not provide. In addition, competitors recently have been offering deposits at higher rates and loans with lower fixed rates, more attractive terms and less stringent credit structures than the Bank has been willing to offer. Furthermore, the high cost of living on the twin forks of eastern Long Island creates staff recruitment and retention challenges. The Company’s Future Depends on Successful Growth of its Subsidiary The Company’s primary business activity for the foreseeable future will be to act as the holding company of the Bank. Therefore, the Company’s future profitability will depend on the success and growth of this subsidiary. The Loss of Key Personnel Could Impair our Future Success Our future success depends in part on the continued service of our executive officers, other key management, as well as our staff, and on our ability to continue to attract, motivate, and retain additional highly qualified employees. The loss of services of one or more of our key personnel or our inability to timely recruit replacements for such personnel, or to otherwise attract, motivate, or retain qualified Page -7- Table of Contents personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In February 2008, the Company’s Chief Retail Banking Officer (“CRBO”) resigned and in March 2008, the Company hired James Manseau as the Company’s CRBO. In addition, Kevin M. O’Connor was appointed to the Board of Directors in October 2007 and became President and Chief Executive Officer effective January 1, 2008 succeeding Thomas J. Tobin. Mr. Tobin remains a member of the Board of Directors and assumed his new role as President Emeritus and Advisor to the Board effective January 1, 2008. Highly Regulated Environment The Bank and Company are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board and the SEC. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a financial institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the consumer. Recently regulators have intensified their focus on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area as well as other areas of the Bank, we have been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. We cannot be certain that the policies, procedures, and systems we have in place are flawless and there is no assurance that in every instance we are in full compliance with these requirements. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, may have a material impact on our operations. We May Be Adversely Affected By Current Economic and Market Conditions The recent national and global economic downturn has resulted in unprecedented levels of financial market volatility which may depress the market value of financial institutions, limit access to capital or have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of banking companies. In the past year, significant declines in the values of mortgage-backed securities and derivative securities by financial institutions, government sponsored entities, and major commercial and investment banks has led to decreased confidence in financial markets among borrowers, lenders, and depositors, as well as disruption and extreme volatility in the capital and credit markets and the failure of some entities in the financial sector. As a result, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Continued turbulence in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. In addition, the possible duration and severity of the adverse economic cycle is unknown and may exacerbate the Company’s exposure to credit risk. Increases to the Allowance for Credit Losses May Cause Our Earnings to Decrease Our customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. Hence, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, we rely on loan quality reviews, past loss experience, and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease our net income. Bank regulators periodically review our allowance for credit losses and may require us to increase our provision for credit losses or loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for credit losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and/or financial condition. Increases in FDIC Insurance Premiums May Cause Our Earnings to Decrease The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (“EESA”) temporarily increased the limit on FDIC coverage to $250,000 through December 31, 2009. In addition, we have enrolled in the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program for non interest bearing transaction deposit accounts. This, along with the full utilization or our assessment credit in early 2008 and the increase in FDIC insurance rates, will cause the premiums assessed by the FDIC to increase. These actions will significantly increase our non interest expense in 2009 and in future years as long as the increased premiums are in place. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 