Item 1A. Risk Factors Concentration of Loan Portfolio The Bank generally invests a greater proportion of our assets in loans secured by commercial and residential real estate properties located in eastern Long Island. A downturn in real estate values and economic conditions on eastern Long Island could have a significant impact on the value of collateral securing the loans as well as the ability for the repayment of loans. See a further discussion in “Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Condition - Loans.” Changes in Interest Rates Could Affect Profitability The ability to earn a profit, like most financial institutions, depends on the net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that the Bank earns on its interest-bearing assets, such as loans and investments, and the interest expense which we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. Our profitability depends on our ability to manage our assets and liabilities during periods of changing market interest rates. Page 3 Table of Contents A sustained decrease in market interest rates could adversely affect our earnings. When interest rates decline, borrowers tend to refinance higher-rate, fixed-rate loans at lower rates. Under those circumstances, we would not be able to reinvest those prepayments in assets earning interest rates as high as the rates on those prepaid loans or in investment securities. In addition, the majority of our loans are at variable interest rates, which would adjust to lower rates. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities. In an increasing interest rate environment, our cost of funds is expected to increase more rapidly than interest earned on our loan and investment portfolio as the primary source of funds is deposits with generally shorter maturities than those on our loans and investments. This makes the balance sheet more liability sensitive in the short term. Geographic Location The Bank’s market area is in the eastern end of Long Island and its customer base is mainly located in the towns of East Hampton, Southampton and Southold. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. The profitability of the Bank depends on the continued ability to successfully compete. The Bank competes with commercial banks, savings banks, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Bank and may offer certain services that the Bank does not provide. In addition competitors recently have been offering loans with lower fixed rates and loans with more attractive terms and less stringent credit structures than the Bank has been willing to offer. Additionally, the high cost of living on the twin forks of eastern Long Island creates staff recruitment and retention challenges. The Company’s Future Depends on Successful Growth of its Subsidiary The Company’s primary business activity for the foreseeable future will be to act as the holding company of the Bank. Therefore, the Company’s future profitability will depend on the success and growth of this subsidiary. The Loss of Key Personnel Could Impair our Future Success Our future success depends in part on the continued service of our executive officers, other key management, as well as our staff, and on our ability to continue to attract, motivate, and retain additional highly qualified employees. The loss of services of one or more of our key personnel or our inability to timely recruit replacements for such personnel, or to otherwise attract, motivate, or retain qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Highly Regulated Environment We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a financial institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the consumer. Recently regulators have intensified their focus on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area as well as other areas of the Bank, we have been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. We cannot be certain that the policies, procedures, and systems we have in place are flawless and there is no assurance that in every instance we are in full compliance with these requirements. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, may have a material impact on our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 