Item 1A. Risk Factors. Certain of the statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (other than the historical financial data and other statements of historical fact), including, without limitation, statements as to management’s expectations and beliefs, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Words such as “believe(s),” “should,” “plan,” “expect(s),” “project(s),” “anticipate(s),” “may,” “likely,” “potential,” “opportunity” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are made based upon management’s good faith expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effect upon the Company. There can be no assurance that future developments will be in accordance with such expectations or that the effect of future developments on the Company will be those anticipated by management. Such forward-looking statements involve a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date the statements were made and readers are advised to consider such forward-looking statements in light of the risks set forth below. Presstek undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Significant factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from management’s expectations or otherwise impact the Company’s financial condition or results of operations include, without limitation, the following risks: Current economic conditions and future market disruptions may adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. Adverse economic conditions in the United States and internationally, leading to reduced capital spending, may adversely impact our business. A substantial portion of our business depends on our customers’ demand for our products and services, the overall economic health of our current and prospective customers, and general economic conditions. As widely reported, financial markets throughout the world experienced extreme disruption in the past three years, including extreme volatility in securities prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others, failure and potential failures of major financial institutions and unprecedented government support of financial institutions and large businesses. These developments and the continuing effects of the related general economic downturn have and will adversely impact the Company’s business and financial condition in a number of ways, including impacts beyond those typically associated with other recent downturns in the U.S. and foreign economies. The slowdown has caused reduced capital spending by end users, which has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the Company’s product sales. Additional cost reduction actions may be necessary which would lead to additional restructuring charges. The tightening of credit in financial markets and the general economic downturn has, and will likely continue to, adversely affect the ability of the Company’s customers, suppliers, outsource manufacturers and channel partners (e.g., dealers and resellers) to obtain financing for significant purchases. The tightening could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for the Company’s products and services, could negatively impact the Company’s ability to collect its accounts receivable on a timely basis, could result in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable being required, and in the event of continued contraction in the Company’s sales, could lead to dated inventory and require additional reserves for obsolescence. The Company is unable to predict the pace, strength, or duration of recovery from the economic downturn and disruption in financial markets or their future effects on the Company’s business and results of operations, but the consequences of a slow or weak recovery or future downturn may be materially adverse. - 20 - The current capital and credit market conditions may adversely affect our access to capital, cost of capital and business operations. The general economic and capital market slowdown in the United States and other parts of the world over the past three years have adversely affected access to capital and increased the cost of capital. If these conditions continue or become worse, our future access to capital markets could be adversely affected and the cost of debt and equity capital could increase. While the Company has a revolving credit facility, if the need arises for additional financing, the inability to obtain adequate financing from debt and/or equity sources could force us to self-fund capital expenditures and strategic initiatives, forgo some opportunities, or possibly discontinue certain operations. Our credit agreement expires in March 2013 and requires that we meet certain financial performance metrics and restricts certain activities. The Company’s current credit agreement expires in March 2013, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain an extension of the current credit agreement or obtain adequate financing from another source. Under the terms of the Company’s credit agreement, the Company is required to meet or exceed certain financial performance metrics. The Company’s failure to achieve these performance metrics would result in a default under the credit agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we are restricted under the credit agreement in our ability to enter into certain transactions, and to make certain investments and capital expenditures above established levels. These restrictions, among others in the credit agreement, may restrict our ability to meet our growth and financial performance targets. We are substantially dependent on our manufacturing and distribution relationships to produce products and to develop and grow our business. The loss or failure of one or more of these partners could significantly harm our business. Our business strategy includes working with manufacturing and distribution partners to produce our products on an OEM basis and to aid in developing new market channels for our products. We are dependent on many of these partners for the supply of products as well as the future sales of both existing and planned products. This means that the timetable for finalizing development, commercialization and distribution of both existing and planned products is dependent upon the needs and circumstances of our partners. Any delay in meeting production and distribution targets with our partners may harm our relationships with them and may cause them to terminate their relationship with us. Our distribution partners may not develop markets for our products at the pace or in the manner we expect, which may have an adverse effect on our business. Our manufacturing and distribution partners may terminate their relationships with us for reasons beyond our control or we may mutually agree to terminate our relationship. Our partners may also experience disruptions in their ability to manufacture or distribute our products for reasons beyond our control, including factors unique to their businesses, factors that are political in nature and related to their region or country, factors related to acts of war or acts of nature, or factors associated with the current global economic downturn. We cannot be assured that the termination of any of our relationships with our manufacturing and distribution partners, and the disruption of their ability to manufacture and distribute our products will not have an adverse impact on our business in the future. Our business strategy may include the licensing or acquisition of technologies, which entail a number of risks. As part of our strategy to grow our business, we may license technologies from third parties. We may not be successful in integrating the acquired technology into our existing business to achieve the desired results. Our lengthy and variable sales cycle makes it difficult for us to predict when or if sales will occur and therefore we may experience an unplanned shortfall in revenues. A shortfall in anticipated revenues may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our products have a lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle that contributes to the unpredictability of our operating results; this issue has been compounded by the economic downturn. Customers view the purchase of our products as a significant capital outlay and, therefore, a strategic decision. As a result, customers generally evaluate these products and determine their impact on existing infrastructure over a lengthy period of time. The sales of our - 21 - products may be subject to delays if the customer has lengthy internal budgeting, approval and evaluation processes. The severe economic downturn has significantly impacted this decision-making process of many of our customers and prospective customers, and some businesses are either deferring or canceling significant capital purchasing decisions due to the uncertainty of their own financial futures. If revenues anticipated during a particular period are not realized or are delayed, we may experience a shortfall in anticipated revenues, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face risks associated with our efforts to expand into international markets. We intend to continue expanding our global sales operations and enter additional international markets in order to increase market awareness and acceptance of our line of products and generate increased revenues, which will require significant management attention and financial resources. International sales are subject to a variety of risks, including difficulties in establishing and managing international distribution channels, in serving and supporting products sold outside the U.S.and in translating products and related materials into foreign languages. International operations are also subject to difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, staffing and managing personnel and enforcing intellectual property rights. Other factors that can adversely affect international operations include the impact of local laws and regulations, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and currency exchange rates, changes in import/export duties and quotas, introduction of tariff or non-tariff barriers and economic or political changes in international markets. If our international sales increase, our revenues may also be affected to a greater extent by seasonal fluctuations resulting from lower levels of sales that typically occur during the summer months in Europe and other parts of the world. There can be no assurance that these factors will not have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have experienced losses in the past, could incur substantial losses in the future, and may not be able to maintain profitability. The Company has sustained significant losses in prior periods. The ability of the Company to generate profits in fiscal 2012 and beyond is dependent upon its ability to generate revenues and effectively manage costs. We may need to generate significant increases in revenues to generate profits, and we may not be able to do so. If our revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate or decrease, or if our operating expenses increase more than we expect or cannot be reduced in the event of lower revenues, our business will be adversely affected. Additionally, future losses could negatively impact our borrowing availability under our existing credit agreement and/or our ability to meet the covenants of our existing credit agreement which could limit our access to additional resources and have a negative affect on our liquidity. Even if we become profitable in the future on a quarterly or annual basis, we may not be able to sustain or increase such profitability year to year. We have intangible assets, and if we are required to write-down any of these assets, it would reduce our net income, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have intangible assets. Intangible assets with estimated lives and other long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”)Topic 360, (originally issued as SFAS No. 144, Accounting for Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets (“SFAS 144”)). Recoverability of intangible assets with estimated lives and other long-lived assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of an asset or asset group to future net undiscounted pretax cash flows expected to be generated by the asset or asset group. If these comparisons indicate that an asset is not recoverable, the Company will recognize an impairment loss for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset or asset group exceeds the related estimated fair value. Reductions in our net income caused by the write-down of any of these intangible assets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. - 22 - Our quarterly revenues and operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly. Due primarily to the high cost of the Company’s digital off-set presses relative to the amount of our quarterly revenues, our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict since a small fluctuation in the number of presses sold could cause a significant fluctuation in quarterly revenues. Our revenue levels have varied in the past, and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Accordingly, our quarterly results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based upon the number of digital off-set presses that are sold in a particular quarter. In addition, we base our current and future expense levels in part on our estimates of future revenues. Our expenses are largely fixed in the short-term and we may not be able to adjust our spending in a timely manner if our revenues fall short of our expectations. Accordingly, a revenue shortfall in a particular quarter would have an adverse effect on our operating results for that quarter. In addition, our quarterly operating results may fluctuate for many other reasons, including, without limitation: · a long and unpredictable sales cycle; · changes in demand for our products and consumables, including seasonal differences; · changes in the mix of our products and consumables; and · the continued global economic slowdown. We are dependent on third party suppliers for critical components and certain products. Our inability to maintain an adequate supply for these critical components and important products could adversely affect us. We are dependent on third-party suppliers for critical components and certain important products. Our demand for these components may strain the ability of our third party suppliers to deliver such components and products in a timely manner. For example, we have a requirement for advanced technology laser diodes for use in products incorporating our direct-to-press technology. If we are unable for any reason to secure an uninterrupted source of critical components at prices acceptable to us, our operations could be materially adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain alternative suppliers should our current supply channels prove inadequate. Our manufacturing capabilities may be insufficient to meet the demand for our products. Our manufacturing processes are sophisticated and demand specific environmental conditions. Although we take precautions to avoid interruptions in manufacturing and to ensure that the products that are manufactured meet our exacting performance standards, our yields may be affected by difficulties in our manufacturing processes. If such an effect occurs, it could increase manufacturing costs, detrimentally impacting margins, or cause a delay in the finishing and shipping of products. New products may not be commercially successful and may not gain market acceptance. As part of the Company’s strategy, we have recently introduced several new products. Achieving and maintaining market acceptance for any product requires substantial marketing and distribution efforts and the dedication of financial and other resources. We may not have sufficient resources to achieve and maintain market acceptance of new products. Additionally, there can be no assurance that our existing product offerings will achieve and maintain market acceptance or that any of our other current products or any future products that we may develop or any future products produced by others that incorporate our technologies will achieve market acceptance or become commercially successful. If these product offerings do not achieve anticipated market acceptance, we may not achieve anticipated revenue and profitability. - 23 - If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal and disclosure controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, investors may lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosures. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and SEC rules require that management report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Among other things, management must conduct an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, concludes that as of December 31, 2011 our internal control over financial reporting was effective. Although we exercise significant efforts to maintain effective controls, our continued assessment may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls or procedures. Such deficiencies may adversely impact our ability to report accurately and in a timely manner our financial condition and results of operations in the future, which may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting. Moreover, effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary to produce accurate, reliable financial reports and to detect and prevent fraud. Our success is partially dependent on our ability to maintain and protect our proprietary rights. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our intellectual property, including patents, trademarks, trade secrets, proprietary know-how, source codes and continuing technological innovation. We have been issued a number of U.S. and foreign patents and we intend to register for additional patents where we deem appropriate. These patents expire on various dates from 2012 to 2027. We also hold several registered trademarks and we may register additional trademarks where we deem appropriate. There can be no assurance, however, as to the issuance of any additional patents or trademarks or the breadth or degree of protection that our patents, trademarks or other intellectual property may afford us. The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not adequately prevent misappropriation or ensure that others will not develop competitive technologies or products. Further, the laws of certain territories in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. There is rapid technological development in the electronic image reproduction industry, resulting in extensive patent filings and a rapid rate of issuance of new patents. Although we believe that our technology has been independently developed and that the products we market do not infringe the patents or violate the proprietary rights of others, it is possible that such infringement of existing or future patents or violation of proprietary rights may inadvertently occur. In this regard, third parties may in the future assert claims against us concerning our existing products or with respect to future products under development by us. In such event, we may be required to modify our product designs or obtain a license. No assurance can be given that we would be able to do so in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions or even at all. The failure to do any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we have agreements with several of our partners which require us to indemnify the partner from claims made by third parties against them concerning our intellectual property, and to defend the validity of the patents or otherwise ensure the technology’s availability to the partner. The costs of an indemnification claim under any such agreement could have a material adverse effect on our business. - 24 - We have taken and may take in the future, legal action to protect our patent and trademark rights from infringement by others. We have also defended actions brought against us relating to the validity of our patent rights. In the course of pursuing or defending any of these actions we could incur significant costs and diversion of our resources. Due to the competitive nature of our industry, it is unlikely that we could increase our product prices to cover such costs. There can be no assurance that we will have the financial or other resources necessary to successfully defend a patent infringement or proprietary rights violation action. Moreover, we may be unable, for financial or other reasons, to enforce our rights under any patents we may own. Such litigation is costly and is subject to uncertain results that could have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also rely on proprietary know-how and employ various methods to protect the source codes, concepts, trade secrets, ideas and documentation relating to our proprietary software and laser diode technology. Such methods, however, may not afford complete protection and there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop such know-how or obtain access to our know-how or software codes, concepts, trade secrets, ideas and documentation. Although we have and expect to have confidentiality agreements with our employees and appropriate vendors, there can be no assurance, however, that such arrangements will adequately protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We use hazardous materials in the production of many of our products at our various manufacturing facilities. As a manufacturing company, we are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials. The cost of compliance with environmental, health and safety regulations is substantial. Some of our business activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and we cannot eliminate the risk or potential liability of accidental contamination, release or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident or environmental discharge, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, which may exceed our financial resources and the limits of any insurance coverage, and our production of plates could be delayed indefinitely, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face competition in the sale of our products. We compete with manufacturers of conventional presses and products utilizing existing plate-making technology, as well as presses and other products utilizing new technologies, including other types of direct-to-plate solutions such as companies that employ electrophotography as their imaging technology. Canon Inc., Hewlett Packard Company, Kodak and Xerox Corporation are companies that have introduced color electrophotographic copier products. Various companies are marketing product versions manufactured by these companies. We also compete with stand-alone CTP imaging devices for single and multi-color applications. Most of the major corporations in the graphic arts industry have developed and are marketing off press CTP imaging systems. To date, devices manufactured by our competitors, for the most part, utilize printing plates that require a post imaging photochemical developing step, and in some cases, also require a heating process. Competitors in this area include, among others, Agfa, Screen, Heidelberg, Fuji and Kodak. We also have competition from plate manufacturing companies that manufacture printing plates, including digital thermal plates. These companies include Agfa, Kodak and Fuji. The introduction of a competitive plate could reduce the revenue generated by Presstek and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. - 25 - Products incorporating our technologies can also be expected to face competition from conventional methods of printing and creating printing plates. Most of the companies marketing competitive products, or with the potential to do so, are well established, have substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than us and have established reputations for success in the development, sale and service of products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. While we believe we have strong intellectual property protection covering many of our technologies, there is no assurance that the breadth or degree of such protection will be sufficient to prohibit or otherwise delay the introduction of competitive products or technologies. The introduction of competitive products and technologies may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to adequately respond to changes in technology affecting the printing industry. The printing and publishing industry has been characterized in recent years by rapid and significant technological changes and frequent new product introductions. Current competitors or new market entrants could introduce new or enhanced products with features, which render our technologies, or products incorporating our technologies, obsolete or less marketable. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to respond to changing technology and industry standards in a timely and cost-effective manner. We may not be successful in effectively using new technologies, developing new products or enhancing our existing products and technology on a timely basis. Our new technologies or enhancements may not achieve market acceptance. Our pursuit of new technologies may require substantial time and expense. We may need to license new technologies to respond to technological change. These licenses may not be available to us on terms that we can accept. Finally, we may not succeed in adapting our products to new technologies as they emerge. Changes in accounting standards could affect our financial results. New accounting standards or pronouncements that may become applicable to us from time to time, or changes in the interpretation of existing standards and pronouncements, could have a significant effect on our reported results for the affected periods. The loss or unavailability of our key personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success is largely dependent on the personal efforts of our senior management team. The loss or interruption of the services of any or all of these individuals could have an adverse effect on our business and prospects. Our stock price has been and could continue to be extremely volatile. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations. The securities markets have experienced, and may experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations that could adversely affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to: · actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; · significant announcements by us or other industry participants; · changes in national or regional economic conditions; · changes in securities analysts’ estimates for us, our competitors or our industry, or our failure to meet analysts’ expectations; and · general market conditions. - 26 - If we do not meet the NASDAQ Stock Market continued listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted. We were notified by the NASDAQ Stock Market (“NASDAQ”) on October 24, 2011 that we were no longer in compliance with the NASDAQ’s minimum bid price listing requirement. We have until April 23, 2012 to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule that requires, among other things, that the average closing price of our common stock be above $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive trading days prior to that date. During this time, our common stock continues to be listed on the NASDAQ and trades as usual. Despite our efforts, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance with the NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements at or prior to April 23, 2012, or that we will not subsequently fail to satisfy the continued listing requirements. If at the end of any cure period, we are not in compliance with the NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements, our common stock may be subject to delisting. A delisting could: (i) reduce the liquidity and market price of our common stock; (ii) negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing; (iii) prevent us from accessing the public capital markets; and (iv) materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We would seek shareholder approval to authorize a reverse stock split in order to increase the price of the common stock and satisfy the minimum bid price requirement, although there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain such shareholder approval. Foreign exchange rates may adversely affect the Company’s financial results. Significant volatility and fluctuations in the rates of exchange for the U.S. dollar against currencies such as the Euro, the British pound and the Japanese yen could negatively impact the Company’s customer pricing, purchase price of sourced product, and adversely affect the Company’s financial results. These factors may materially and adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. - 27 - 