Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding the following: 19 · our expectations for our financial and operating performance in 2007 and beyond; · the adequacy of internal cash and working capital for our operations; · our ability to supply sufficient product for anticipated demand and production delays associated with such demand; · availability of component materials; · management’s plans and goals with regard to our shipping and production capabilities, including the adequacy of our facilities for present and expected future operations; · the availability of alternative suppliers and manufacturers; · manufacturing constraints or difficulties; · the introduction of competitive products into the marketplace; · management’s plans and goals for our subsidiaries; · the ability of our subsidiaries to generate positive cash flows in the near-term; · our subsidiaries’ ability to produce commercially competitive products; · the strength of our various strategic partnerships both on manufacturing and distribution; · our ability to secure other strategic alliances and relationships; · our expectations regarding our strategy for growth, including statements regarding our expectations for continued product mix improvement; · our expectations regarding the balance, independence and control of our business; · the resulting and expected effects and benefits from our transformation efforts; · our expectations regarding the strength and improvement of our fundamentals, including management of our financial controls; · our expectations and plans regarding market penetration, including the strength and scope of our distribution channels and our expectations regarding sales of DI presses or CTP devices; · the expansion of our products and technology; · the status of our technology leadership in our market/industry; · the commercialization and marketing of our technology; · our expectations regarding the sale of our products and use of our technology; · our current plans for product development and the expected market acceptance of recently introduced products and the likely acceptance of planned future products; · the expected growth in market share; 20 · the effects, market acceptance or pricing of competitive products, including the possibility of a competitive plate product being introduced by a strategic partner; · the placement of orders for direct imaging kits; · our expectations regarding reductions in warranty costs; · statements regarding the profitability of process-free CTP; · the adequacy of our intellectual property protections and our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights; and · the expected effect of adopting recently issued accounting standards, among others. Such forward-looking statements involve a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. The words “looking forward,” “looking ahead,” “believe(s),” “should,” “plan,” “expect(s),” “project(s),” “anticipate(s),” “may,” “likely,” “potential,” “opportunity” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date, the statements were made and readers are advised to consider such forward-looking statements in light of the risks set forth below. Presstek undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Significant factors that could impact the Company’s financial condition or results of operations include, without limitation, the following: We are substantially dependent on our strategic alliances, as well as our manufacturing and distribution relationships to develop and grow our business. The loss or failure of one or more of our strategic partners could significantly harm our business. Our business strategy to date has included entering into strategic alliances with major companies in the graphic arts industry and other markets. The implementation of this strategy has included, among other things, licensing our intellectual property, developing specialized products based on our proprietary technologies and manufacturing imaging systems for inclusion in other manufacturers’ products. Our strategy has also involved identifying strategic manufacturing and distribution partners to aid in developing new market channels for our products. This strategy led to the development of our relationship with our strategic partners. We are dependent on many of these partners for future sales of both existing and planned products. This means that the timetable for finalizing development, commercialization and distribution of both existing and planned products is dependent upon the needs and circumstances of our strategic partners. We have experienced and will continue to experience technical difficulties from time to time, which may prevent us from meeting certain production and distribution targets. Any delay in meeting production and distribution targets with our strategic partners may harm our relationships with them and may cause them to terminate their relationship with us. Our strategic partners may not develop markets for our products at the pace or in the manner we expect, which may have an adverse effect on our business. They may also terminate their relationships with us for circumstances beyond our control, including factors unique to their businesses or their business decisions. In addition, we may mutually agree with one or more of our partners to terminate our relationship with them for a variety of reasons. We cannot assure you that the termination of any of our other relationships with our strategic partners will not have an adverse impact on our business in the future. We are also unable to control factors related to the businesses of our strategic partners. There can be no assurance that similar events will not occur with our other strategic partners. 21 Though we take precautions designed to achieve success, given the uncertainties surrounding many of our strategic partners, there can be no assurance that our existing strategic relationships will prove successful. There can also be no assurance that our existing relationships with any of our other strategic, manufacturing or distribution partners will be successful. The loss of principal customers or strategic partners could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While we continue to explore possibilities for additional strategic relationships and alliances, there can be no assurance we will be successful in this regard. Our failure to develop new relationships and alliances could have a significant adverse effect on our business. The move to a direct-sales and distribution business may affect our relationship with our third-party distribution and service partners, which may negatively impact our sales and distribution channels. Prior to the addition of the ABDick business, distribution and service of our CTP products was performed by our third-party partners, including Pitman and Xpedx and a series of independent dealers. Additionally, the distribution and service of our DI products were provided by OEM and other third party partners. With the addition of ABDick, we utilize our newly-acquired sales, distribution and service organization as a new channel through which to sell and service Presstek products, as a supplement to our existing distribution network. At this time, we are not aware of any conflicts between our existing channel and/or OEM partners associated with the initiation of this channel. However, there can be no guarantees that the establishment of this new distribution channel will not cause conflict with our existing distribution and OEM partners, which could have an adverse effect on our relationship with our distribution and/or OEM partners, which could result in our sales being negatively affected. If we are unable to manage acquisitions successfully it could harm our financial results, business and prospects. The operations of Presstek have substantially changed over the last thirty months as a result of the additions of Precision and the ABDick business. As part of our business strategy, over the next few years, we may further expand our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses worldwide. Though we would not undertake an acquisition that would knowingly be problematic, we cannot assure you that we will be able successfully to integrate any future acquisitions, which could adversely impact our long-term competitiveness and profitability. Any future acquisitions will involve a number of risks that could harm our financial condition, results of operations and competitive position. In particular: · The integration process could disrupt the activities of the businesses that are being combined. The combination of the businesses or plants may require, among other things, coordination of administrative and other functions and consolidation of production capacity. Plant consolidation may strain our ability to deliver products of acceptable quality in a timely manner from consolidated facilities. We may experience attrition among the skilled labor force at the companies acquired in reaction to being acquired and in reaction to our consolidation of plants. · The execution of our integration plans may divert the attention of our management from operating our existing business. · We may assume known and unanticipated liabilities and contingencies. · Future acquisitions could cause a reduction of our reported earnings because of the use of capital, the issuance of additional securities or debt, increased interest expense, goodwill write-offs and an increased income tax rate. With respect to our strategic plan to grow, in part, through acquisitions, we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify suitable acquisitions at acceptable prices or that we will have access to sufficient capital to take advantage of desirable acquisitions. We cannot assure you that our future acquisitions will have revenues, profits or 22 productivity comparable to those of our past acquisitions. Future acquisitions may require substantial capital. Although we expect to use borrowings under our senior credit facility to pursue these opportunities, we cannot assure you that such borrowings will be available in sufficient amounts or that other financing will be available in amounts and on terms that we deem acceptable. Our financial performance and the condition of the capital markets will affect the value of our common stock, which could make it a less attractive form of consideration for making acquisitions. Our lengthy and variable sales cycle makes it difficult for us to predict when or if sales will occur and therefore we may experience an unplanned shortfall in revenues. Many of our products have a lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle that contributes to the uncertainty of our operating results. Customers view the purchase of our products as a significant capital outlay and, therefore, a strategic decision. As a result, customers generally evaluate these products and determine their impact on existing infrastructure over a lengthy period of time. Our sales cycle has historically ranged from approximately one to six months based on the customer’s need to rapidly implement a solution and whether the customer is new or is extending an existing implementation. The sale of our products may be subject to delays if the customer has lengthy internal budgeting, approval and evaluation processes. We may incur significant selling and marketing expenses during a customer’s evaluation period. Larger customers may purchase our products as part of multiple simultaneous purchasing decisions, which may result in additional unplanned administrative processing and other delays in the recognition of our revenues. If revenues forecasted from a specific customer for a particular quarter are not realized or are delayed to another quarter, we may experience an unplanned shortfall in revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. We may not be able to increase revenues if we do not expand our sales and distribution channels. We will need to expand our global sales operations in order to increase market awareness and acceptance of our line of products and generate increased revenues. We market and distribute our products indirectly through our global partner and distributor network and directly in Europe through our Presstek Europe subsidiary. We believe that our future success is dependent upon expansion of global distribution channels. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain our current relationships or establish new relationships with additional distribution partners on a timely basis, or at all. We plan to utilize our newly-acquired distribution and service organization as a new channel through which to sell and service our products, as a supplement to our existing distribution network. At this time, we are not aware of any conflicts between our existing channel and/or OEM partners associated with the initiation of this channel. However, there can be no guarantees that the establishment of this new distribution channel will not cause conflict with our existing distribution and OEM partners, which could have an adverse effect on our relationship with our distribution and/or OEM partners, which could result in our sales being negatively affected. Our growth strategy may include licenses or acquisitions of technologies or businesses, which entail a number of risks. As part of our strategy to grow our business, we may pursue licenses of technologies from third parties or acquisitions of complementary products lines or companies, and such transactions entail a number of risks. We may expend significant costs in investigating and pursuing such transactions, and such transactions may not be consummated. If such transactions are consummated, we may not be successful in integrating the acquired technology or business into our existing business to achieve the desired synergies. Integrating acquired technologies or businesses may also require a substantial commitment of our management’s time and attention. We may expend significant funds to acquire such technologies or businesses, and we may incur unforeseen liabilities in connection with any acquisition of a technology or business. Any of the foregoing risks could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions. 23 We face risks associated with our efforts to expand into international market and such risks could result in diversion of our management’s attention from our existing business and/or cause us to incur additional expected and unexpected costs associated with penetrating, operating in and servicing such markets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We intend to expand our global sales operations and enter additional international markets, which will require significant management attention and financial resources. International sales are subject to a variety of risks, including difficulties in establishing and managing international distribution channels, in serving and supporting products sold outside the United States and in translating products and related materials into foreign languages. International operations are also subject to difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, staffing and managing personnel and enforcing intellectual property rights. Other factors that can adversely affect international operations include fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and currency exchange rates, changes in import/export duties and quotas, introduction of tariff or non-tariff barriers and economic or political changes in international markets. If our international sales increase, our revenues may also be affected to a greater extent by seasonal fluctuations resulting from lower levels of sales that typically occur during the summer months in Europe and other parts of the world. There can be no assurance that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and, consequently, on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have experienced losses in the past, could incur substantial losses in the future, and may not be able to maintain profitability. We have incurred substantial net losses from continuing operations in one of the past five fiscal years. At December 30, 2006 we had retained earnings of $1.8 million. We may need to generate significant increases in revenues to maintain profitability, and we may not be able to do so. If our revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate, or if our operating expenses increase more than we expect or cannot be reduced in the event of lower revenues, our business will be materially adversely affected. Even if we maintain profitability in the future on a quarterly or annual basis, we may not be able to sustain or increase such profitability year to year. Failure to sustain profitability may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could have a materially adverse impact on the value of an investment in us. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are sometimes difficult to predict, have varied in the past, and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. We typically realize a significant percentage of our revenues for a fiscal quarter in the third month of the quarter. Accordingly, our quarterly results may be difficult to predict prior to the end of the quarter. Any inability to obtain sufficient orders or to fulfill shipments in the period immediately preceding the end of any particular quarter may cause the results for that quarter to fail to meet our revenue targets. In addition, we base our current and future expense levels in part on our estimates of future revenues. Our expenses are largely fixed in the short-term and we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly if our revenues fall short of our expectations. Accordingly, a revenue shortfall in a particular quarter would have an adverse effect on our operating results for that quarter. In addition, our quarterly operating results may fluctuate for many reasons, including, without limitation: · a long and unpredictable sales cycle; · changes in demand for our products and consumables, including seasonal differences; and · changes in the mix of our products and consumables. We are dependent on third party suppliers for critical components and our inability to maintain an adequate supply of advanced laser diodes and other critical components could adversely affect us. We are dependent on third-party suppliers for critical components and our increased demand for these components may strain the ability of our third-party suppliers to deliver such critical components in a timely manner. For 24 example, our requirement for advanced technology laser diodes for use in products incorporating our DI technology has increased and is expected to further increase in the future. Although we have established our subsidiary, Lasertel, to help us meet our demand for laser diodes, we are still dependent on other third-party manufacturers to supply us with other necessary components. If we are unable for any reason to secure an uninterrupted source of other critical components at prices acceptable to us, our operations could be materially adversely affected. We cannot assure you that Lasertel will be able to manufacture advanced laser diodes in quantities that will fulfill our future needs, or with manufacturing volumes or yields that will make our operation cost effective. Likewise, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain alternative suppliers for our laser diodes or other critical components should our current supply channels prove inadequate. Our manufacturing capabilities may be insufficient to meet the demand for our products. If demand for our products grows beyond our expectations, our current manufacturing capabilities may be insufficient to meet this demand, resulting in production delays and a failure to deliver products in a timely fashion. We may be forced to seek alternative manufacturers for our products. There can be no assurance that we will successfully be able to do so. As we introduce new products, we may face production and manufacturing delays due to technical and other unforeseen problems. Any manufacturing delay could have an adverse effect on our business, the success of any product affected by the delay, and our revenue, and may harm our relationships with our strategic partners. In addition, many of our manufacturing processes are extremely sophisticated and demand specific environmental conditions. Though we take precautions to avoid interruptions in manufacturing and to ensure that the products that are manufactured meet our exacting performance standards, our yields may be affected by difficulties in our manufacturing processes. If such an affect occurred, it could increase manufacturing costs, detrimentally affecting margins, or cause a delay in the finishing and shipping of products. Any manufacturing delay could have an adverse effect on our business, the success of any product affected by the delay, and our revenue, and may harm our relationships with our strategic partners. Recently introduced products that incorporate our technology may not be commercially successful and may not gain market acceptance. Achieving market acceptance for any products incorporating our technology requires substantial marketing and distribution efforts and expenditure of significant sums of money and allocation of significant resources, either by us, our strategic partners or both. We may not have sufficient resources to do so. Additionally, there can be no assurance that products introduced by our strategic partners, such as the 46 Karat DI presses, or our product offerings such as our Applause or Anthem plates, and Dimension 400, Dimension 800 and Vector TX 52 platesetters, will achieve widespread market acceptance or that any of our other current products or any future products that we may develop or any future products produced by others that incorporate our technologies will achieve market acceptance or become commercially successful. We recently announced the commercial release of our new DI 52 printing press. There can be no assurance that this press, or our other products, will achieve market acceptance. If our new product offerings do not achieve anticipated market acceptance, we may not achieve anticipated revenue. Recently introduced products that incorporate our technology may result in substantial support costs and warranty expenditures. Introducing new products carries substantial risk. While we do extensive testing on our new products before introducing them to our customers, no amount of testing can replace or approximate actual field conditions at our customer locations. As a result, when we introduce new products we can incur increased expenditures in ensuring that the new product meets and performs in accordance with its specifications. We cannot, however, always estimate precisely the expected costs that may arise out of new product installations. There can be no assurance that we will not incur increased warranty, support and other costs associated with new product introductions in the future. In addition, the occurrence of these expenditures may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 25 If the United States and global economies slow down, the demand for our products could decrease and our revenue may be materially adversely affected. The demand for our products is dependent upon various factors, many of which are beyond our control. For example, general economic conditions affect or delay the overall capital spending by businesses and consumers, particularly for capital equipment such as presses. An economic slowdown in the U.S. and abroad could result in a decrease in spending and spending projections on capital equipment that could impact the demand for our products. If, as a result of general economic uncertainty or otherwise, companies reduce their product spending levels, such a decrease in spending could substantially reduce demand for our products, substantially harm our business, and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As of December 30, 2006, we identified a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, and concluded that our disclosure controls were not effective. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal and disclosure controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, investors may be misled and lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosures, and the price of our common stock may be negatively affected. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Among other things, we must perform systems and process evaluation and testing. We must also conduct an assessment of our internal controls to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. A “significant deficiency” means a deficiency in the design or operation of internal control that adversely affects our ability to initiate, authorize, record, process or report external financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements that is more than inconsequential will occur and not be detected. A “material weakness” is a significant deficiency, or a combination of significant deficiencies, that result in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will occur and not be detected by management before the financial statements are published. In connection with the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting for this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as further described in Item 9A, management and our registered public accounting firm determined that as of December 30, 2006 our disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective because of the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, in the future, our continued assessment, or the subsequent assessment by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal additional deficiencies in our internal controls and disclosure controls, some of which may require disclosure in future reports. Although we have made and are continuing to make improvements in our internal controls, if we are unsuccessful in remediating the material weakness impacting our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls, or if we discover other deficiencies, it may adversely impact our ability to report accurately and in a timely manner our financial condition and results of operations in the future , which may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary to produce accurate, reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we continue to have deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls, they may negatively impact our business and operations. The expansion of Lasertel into areas other than the production of laser diodes for our printing business may be unsuccessful. Lasertel, which was formed for the purpose of supplying us with laser diodes, has also explored other markets for its laser technology. These efforts to develop other markets were scaled back, in part, in June 2001, as we announced a restructuring of Lasertel in order to reduce its costs and focus its efforts on supplying us with high quality laser diodes. While the plans to market its laser products to the telecommunications industry were delayed, Lasertel has developed laser products for the defense industry and has continued its plans to develop laser prototypes for 26 qualification in the defense and industrial industries. There can be no assurance that these products or prototypes will gain acceptance in these industries and likewise, there can be no assurance that these products will be commercially successful. Our executive team has limited experience in the telecommunications, defense and industrial industries and there can be no assurance that Lasertel will be able to successfully exploit any opportunities that may arise. The failure of Lasertel to develop, commercialize or sell its products or future products to various other industries could distract its management’s attention and/or have an adverse impact on its financial condition or results of operations, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial condition. Conversely, any success that Lasertel achieves in developing, commercializing or selling its products or future products to various other industries could cause delays in manufacturing of the laser diodes that it supplies to us, which could harm our business and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Lasertel may require additional working capital infusions from us, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. Lasertel has required and will continue to require a significant amount of capital investment by Presstek in order to fund its operations. For the fiscal year ended December 30, 2006, Lasertel recorded a net loss from operations of $1.1 million. Lasertel has only had sales to a limited number of third parties to date, and any loss of such customers or significant reduction in their purchases from Lasertel could increase its reliance upon us for capital and resources. Lasertel’s capital and working capital needs may exceed our ability to provide such funds, requiring us to borrow against our credit facilities or seek to obtain outside financing for Lasertel’s operations. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success is dependent on our ability to maintain and protect our proprietary rights. Our future success will depend, in large part, upon our intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks, trade secrets, proprietary know-how, source codes and continuing technological innovation. We have been issued a number of U.S. and foreign patents and we intend to register for additional patents where we deem appropriate. We also hold seven registered trademarks and we may register additional trademarks where we deem appropriate. There can be no assurance, however, as to the issuance of any additional patents or trademarks or the breadth or degree of protection that our patents, trademarks or other intellectual property may afford us. The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not adequately prevent misappropriation or ensure that others will not develop competitive technologies or products. Further, the laws of certain territories in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. There is rapid technological development in the electronic image reproduction industry, resulting in extensive patent filings and a rapid rate of issuance of new patents. Although we believe that our technology has been independently developed and that the products we market do not infringe the patents or violate the proprietary rights of others, it is possible that such infringement of existing or future patents or violation of proprietary rights may occur. In this regard, third parties may in the future assert claims against us concerning our existing products or with respect to future products under development by us. In such event, we may be required to modify our product designs or obtain a license. No assurance can be given that we would be able to do so in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions or even at all. The failure to do any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we have agreements with several of our strategic partners which require us to indemnify the strategic partner from claims made by third parties against them concerning our intellectual property, and to defend the validity of the patents or otherwise ensure the technology’s availability to the strategic partner. The costs of an indemnification claim under any such agreement could have a material adverse effect on our business. In March 2005, we filed an action against Creo, Inc. (subsequently acquired by Kodak) in the U.S. District for the District of New Hampshire for patent infringement. In this action, we allege that Creo has manufactured and distributed a product that violates a Presstek U.S. Patent. We are seeking an order from the court holding that Creo 27 has infringed the patent, permanently enjoining Kodak from infringing, inducing others to infringe or contributing to the infringement of the Patent, and seeking damages from Creo for the infringement. In September 2003, Presstek filed an action against Fuji Photo Film Corporation, Ltd., in the District Court of Mannheim, Germany for patent infringement. In this action, Presstek alleges that Fuji has manufactured and distributed a product that violates Presstek European Patent 0 644 047 registered under number DE 694 17 129 with the German Patent and Trademark Office. Presstek seeks an order from the court that Fuji refrain from offering the infringing product for sale, from using the infringing material or introducing it for the named purposes, and from possessing such infringing material. We may take legal action to determine the validity and scope of third party rights or to defend against any allegations of infringement. In the course of pursuing or defending any of these actions we could incur significant costs and diversion of our resources. Due to the competitive nature of our industry, it is unlikely that we could increase our product prices to cover such costs. There can be no assurance that we will have the financial or other resources necessary to successfully defend a patent infringement or proprietary rights violation action. Moreover, we may be unable, for financial or other reasons, to enforce our rights under any patents we may own. As an example of the cost and uncertainty of patent litigation, in August 1999 Creo filed an action in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against us seeking a declaration that Creo’s products do not and will not infringe any valid and enforceable claims of any of our patents in question. We counterclaimed against Creo for patent infringement of certain of our patents. The matter went to trial in June 2001, and in September 2001, the court affirmed the validity and enforceability of our on-press imaging patents, but held that the current Creo DOP System did not infringe on our patents. Creo appealed the court’s decision that our patents were valid and enforceable, and we cross-appealed the finding of non-infringement by the current Creo DOP System. On September 17, 2002, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the lower court’s decision that our patents are valid and enforceable, but that they are not infringed by the current Creo DOP System. We incurred higher than expected legal expenses in fiscal 2002 and 2001 due to this litigation. Any similar litigation in the future is expected to be costly, yield uncertain results and could have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also rely on proprietary know-how and employ various methods to protect the source codes, concepts, trade secrets, ideas and documentation relating to our proprietary software and laser diode technology. However, such methods may not afford complete protection and there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop such know-how or obtain access to our know-how or software codes, concepts, trade secrets, ideas and documentation. Although we have and expect to have confidentiality agreements with our employees and appropriate vendors, there can be no assurance, however, that such arrangements will adequately protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We use hazardous materials in the production of many of our products at our various manufacturing facilities. As a manufacturing company, we are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials. The cost of compliance with environmental, health and safety regulations is substantial. Our business activities, especially those at our Precision segment, involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and we cannot eliminate the risk or potential liability of accidental contamination, release or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident or environmental discharge, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, which may exceed our financial resources, and our production of plates could be delayed indefinitely, either of which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. On October 30, 2006, a chemical was released from a mixing tank into a holding pool at our Precision segment manufacturing plant in Massachusetts, which caused us to temporarily cease digital and analog aluminum plate manufacturing operations at this location. The chemical release was contained on-site, there were no reported injuries, neighboring properties were not damaged and there are no requirements for soil or groundwater remediation. At this time, the cause of the event is undetermined. Digital plate manufacturing was restarted on November 6, 2006. On December 28, 2006, the Audit Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors ratified a plan submitted by management to terminate production in South Hadley, Massachusetts of Precision-branded analog plates used in newspaper applications. 28 We face substantial competition in the sale of our products. We compete with manufacturers of conventional presses and products utilizing existing plate-making technology, as well as presses and other products utilizing new technologies, including other types of direct-to-plate solutions such as companies that employ electrophotography as their imaging technology. Canon Inc., Hewlett Packard Company, Kodak and Xerox Corporation are companies that have introduced color electrophotographic copier products. Various companies are marketing product versions manufactured by these companies. We are also aware that there is a trend in the graphic arts industry to create stand-alone computer-to-plate imaging devices for single and multi-color applications. Most of the major corporations in the graphic arts industry have developed and/or are developing and marketing off press computer-to-plate imaging systems. To date, devices manufactured by our competitors, for the most part, utilize printing plates that require a post imaging photochemical developing step, and in some cases, also require a heating process. Potential competitors in this area include, among others, Agfa Gevaert N.V., Dai Nippon Screen Manufacturing Ltd., Heidelberg and Kodak. We also anticipate competition from plate manufacturing companies that manufacture printing plates, or have the potential to manufacture digital thermal plates. These companies include Agfa Gevaert N.V., Kodak and Fuji Photo Film Co., Ltd. Heidelberg is marketing a competitive plate product as an alternative to Presstek’s PEARLdry for the Quickmaster DI. The introduction of a competitive plate could reduce the revenue generated by Presstek under its relationship with Heidelberg, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Products incorporating our technologies can also be expected to face competition from conventional methods of printing and creating printing plates. Most of the companies marketing competitive products, or with the potential to do so, are well established, have substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than us and have established reputations for success in the development, sale and service of products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. While we believe we have strong intellectual property protection covering many of our technologies, there is no assurance that the breadth or degree of such protection will be sufficient to prohibit or otherwise delay the introduction of competitive products or technologies. The introduction of competitive products and technologies may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to adequately respond to changes in technology affecting the printing industry. Our continuing product development efforts have focused on refining and improving the performance of our PEARL and DI technology and our consumables and we anticipate that we will continue to focus such efforts. The printing and publishing industry has been characterized in recent years by rapid and significant technological changes and frequent new product introductions. Current competitors or new market entrants could introduce new or enhanced products with features, which render our technologies, or products incorporating our technologies, obsolete or less marketable. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to: · use leading technologies effectively; · continue to develop our technical expertise and patented position; · enhance our current products and develop new products that meet changing customer needs; · time new product introductions in a way that minimizes the impact of customers delaying purchases of existing products in anticipation of new product releases; · adjust the prices of our existing products to increase customer demand; · successfully advertise and market our products; and 29 · influence and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. We must respond to changing technology and industry standards in a timely and cost-effective manner. We may not be successful in effectively using new technologies, developing new products or enhancing our existing products and technology on a timely basis. Our new technologies or enhancements may not achieve market acceptance. Our pursuit of new technologies may require substantial time and expense. We may need to license new technologies to respond to technological change. These licenses may not be available to us on terms that we can accept. Finally, we may not succeed in adapting our products to new technologies as they emerge. Ongoing litigation could have an adverse impact on our business. From time to time in the ordinary course of our business, we may be subject to lawsuits. On October 26, 2006, we were served with a complaint naming the Company, together with certain of its executive officers, as defendants in a purported securities class action suit filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Hampshire. The suit claims to be brought on behalf of purchases of Presstek’s common stock during the period from July 27, 2006 through September 29, 2006. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the Company and the other defendants violated Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. While we believe the allegations are without merit and intend to vigorously defend against them, we cannot assure an outcome that is favorable to us, and an unfavorable outcome in connection with this or a future lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Presstek is party to other litigation that it considers routine and incidental to its business; however, it does not expect the results of any of these actions to have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operation or financial condition. The loss or unavailability of our key personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success is largely dependent on the personal efforts of our senior management team. We have employment agreements with Edward J. Marino, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey A. Cook, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and certain other executives. The loss or interruption of the services of any or all of these individuals could have an adverse effect on our business and prospects. Our success is also be dependent on our ability to hire and retain additional qualified engineering, technical, sales, marketing and other personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry can be intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to hire or retain additional qualified personnel. Our stock price has been and could continue to be extremely volatile. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations. The securities markets, and the Nasdaq National Market in particular, have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations that could adversely affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to: · actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; · significant announcements by us or other industry participants; · changes in national or regional economic conditions; 30 · changes in securities analysts’ estimates for us, our competitors or our industry, or our failure to meet analysts’ expectations; and · general market conditions. These factors may materially and adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 31 Item 