Risk Factors" in Item 1A. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Fuel Tech Fuel Tech, Inc. (“Fuel Tech”) is a fully integrated company that uses a suite of advanced technologies to provide boiler optimization, efficiency improvement and air pollution reduction and control solutions to utility and industrial customers worldwide. Originally incorporated in 1987 under the laws of the Netherlands Antilles as Fuel-Tech N.V., Fuel Tech became domesticated in the United States on September 30, 2006, and continues as a Delaware corporation with its corporate headquarters at 512 Kingsland Drive, Batavia, Illinois, 60510-2299. Fuel Tech maintains an Internet web site at www.ftek.com. Fuel Tech's special focus is the worldwide marketing of its nitrogen oxide (“NOx”) reduction and FUEL CHEM® processes. The NOx reduction technology segment, which includes the NOxOUT®, NOxOUT CASCADE®, NOxOUT ULTRA® and NOxOUT-SCR® processes, reduces NOx emissions in flue gas from boilers, incinerators, furnaces and other stationary combustion sources. The FUEL CHEM technology segment improves the efficiency, reliability and environmental status of combustion units by controlling slagging, fouling, corrosion, opacity, acid plume and loss on ignition, as well as the formation of sulfur trioxide, ammonium bisulfate, particulate matter (PM2.5), carbon dioxide and NOx through the addition of chemicals into the fuel or via TIFI™ Targeted In-Furnace Injection™ programs. Fuel Tech has other technologies, both commercially available and in the development stage, all of which are related to the NOxOUT and FUEL CHEM processes or are similar in their technological base. Fuel Tech's business is materially dependent on the continued existence and enforcement of worldwide air quality regulations. American Bailey Corporation Ralph E. Bailey, Executive Chairman and Director of Fuel Tech, and Douglas G. Bailey, Deputy Chairman and Director of Fuel Tech, are shareholders of American Bailey Corporation (“ABC”), which is a related party. Please refer to Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in this document for information about transactions between Fuel Tech and ABC. Additionally, see the more detailed information relating to this subject under the caption “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in Fuel Tech’s Proxy Statement, to be distributed in connection with Fuel Tech’s 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which information is incorporated by reference. NOx Reduction Regulations and Markets The U.S. air pollution control market is the primary driver in Fuel Tech’s NOx reduction technology segment. This market is dependent on air pollution regulations and their continued enforcement. These regulations are based on the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (the “CAAA”), which require reductions in NOx emissions on varying timetables with respect to various sources of emissions. Under the SIP (State Implementation Plan) Call, a regulation promulgated under the Amendments (discussed further below), over 1,000 utility and large industrial boilers in 19 states were required to achieve NOx reduction targets by May 31, 2004. In 1994, governors of 11 Northeastern states, known collectively as the Ozone Transport Region, signed a Memorandum of Understanding requiring utilities to reduce their NOx emissions by 55% to 65% from 1990 levels by May 1999. In 1998, the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) announced more stringent regulations. The Ozone Transport SIP Call regulation, designed to mitigate the effects of wind-aided ozone transported from the Midwestern and Southeastern U.S. into the Northeastern non-attainment areas, required, following the litigation described below, 19 states to make even deeper aggregate reductions of 85% from 1990 levels by May 31, 2004. Over 1,000 utility and large industrial boilers are affected by these mandates. Additionally, most other states with non-attainment areas were also required to meet ambient air quality standards for ozone by 2007. Although the SIP Call was the subject of litigation, an appellate court of the D.C. Circuit upheld the validity of this regulation. This court’s ruling was later affirmed by the U.S. Supreme Court. In February 2001, the U.S. Supreme Court, in a unanimous decision, upheld EPA’s authority to revise the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for ozone to 0.080 parts per million averaged through an eight-hour period from the current 0.120 parts per million for a one-hour period. This more stringent standard provided clarity and impetus for air pollution control efforts well beyond the then current ozone attainment requirement of 2007. In keeping with this trend, the Supreme Court, only days later, denied industry’s attempt to stay the SIP Call, effectively exhausting all means of appeal. 1 Table of Contents On December 23, 2003, the EPA proposed a new regulation affecting the SIP Call states by specifying more expansive NOx reduction. This rule, under the name “Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR),” was issued by the EPA on March 10, 2005. Commencing in 2009, CAIR specifies that additional annual NOx reduction requirements be extended to most SIP-affected units in 28 eastern states, while permitting a cap and trade format similar to the SIP Call. The Company expects an additional 1,300 electric generating units using coal and other fuels to be affected by this rule. In an action related to CAIR, on June 15, 2005, the EPA issued the “Clean Air Visibility Rule (CAVR),” which is a nationwide initiative to improve federally preserved areas through reduction of NOx and other pollutants. CAVR expands the NOx reduction market to Western states unaffected by CAIR or the SIP Call. Compliance begins in 2013 and CAVR will potentially affect and additional 230 western coal fired units. In addition, CAVR, along with the EPA rule for revised eight-hour ozone attainment, which was proposed on June 20, 2007, have the potential to impact thousands of boilers and industrial units in multiple industries nationwide for units burning coal and other fuels starting in 2013. Fuel Tech also sells NOx control systems outside the United States, specifically in Europe and in the People's Republic of China (PRC). NOxOUT systems have long been sold in the traditional markets of Western Europe, but interest is growing in the newer markets of Eastern Europe as those nations join the European Union (EU) and become subject to tighter NOx emission standards. Under EU Directives, certain waste incinerators and cement plants must come into compliance with specified NOx reduction targets by 2008, while certain power plants must be in compliance by 2010. Fuel Tech was awarded its first air pollution control project in Romania during 2007. The PRC also represents attractive opportunities for Fuel Tech as the Government's 11th Five-Year Economic Plan has set pollution control and energy efficiency and savings as the top two priorities. Fuel Tech has viable technologies to help achieve both objectives. The PRC has taken initial steps to reduce NOx emissions on new electric utility units (principally low NOx burners), and on-going research and demonstration projects are generating cost performance data for use in tightening standards in the near future, both for new and retrofit units. The PRC's dominant reliance on coal as an energy resource is not expected to diminish in the foreseeable future. Clean air has been and will continue to be a pressing issue, especially with the PRC’s booming economy (8%-12% annual GDP increase), expected growth in power production (4%-5% average annual increase through 2020), and an increasingly expanded role in international events and organizations. The PRC is the host of the upcoming 2008 Beijing Summer Olympics and the 2010 Shanghai World Expo. Fuel Tech is looking to establish a market position in NOx control resulting from the national demonstration projects utilizing NOxOUT CASCADE technology at Jiangsu Kanshan (two new 600 megawatt units), NOxOUT Selective Non-Catalytic Reduction (SNCR) technology at Jiangyin Ligang (four new 600 megawatt units), and NOxOUT ULTRA technology on two retrofit projects in Beijing. These projects are expected to showcase a wide spectrum of Fuel Tech capabilities for NOx emission control with the intent of gaining immediate penetration within the market for new power units, and establishing Fuel Tech as the leader for the larger market for retrofit units later. Products Fuel Tech’s NOx reduction technologies are installed worldwide on over 450 combustion units, including utility, industrial and municipal solid waste applications. Products include customized NOx control systems and patented urea-to-ammonia conversion technology, which can provide safe reagent for use in Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) systems. Fuel Tech's NOxOUT process is a Selective Non-Catalytic Reduction process that uses non-hazardous urea as the reagent rather than ammonia. The NOxOUT process on its own is capable of reducing NOx by up to 35% for utilities and by potentially significantly greater amounts for industrial units in many types of plants with capital costs ranging from $5 - $20/kw for utility boilers and with total annualized operating costs ranging from $1,000 - $2,000/ton of NOx removed. Fuel Tech’s NOxOUT CASCADE process uses a catalyst in addition to the NOxOUT process to achieve performance similar to SCR. Capital costs for NOxOUT CASCADE systems can range from $30 - $75/kw which is significantly less than that of SCRs, which can range as high as $400/kw, while operating costs are competitive with those experienced by SCR systems. Fuel Tech’s NOxOUT-SCR process utilizes urea as a catalyst reagent to achieve NOx reductions of up to 85% from smaller stationary combustion sources with capital and operating costs competitive with equivalently sized, standard SCR systems. Fuel Tech’s NOxOUT ULTRA system is designed to convert urea to ammonia safely and economically for use as a reagent in the SCR process for NOx reduction. In this fashion, Fuel Tech intends to participate in the SCR segment of the United States SIP Call and CAIR driven markets. Recent local hurdles in the ammonia permitting process have raised concerns regarding the safety of ammonia storage in quantities sufficient to supply SCR. In addition, the Department of Homeland Security recently characterized anhydrous ammonia as a Toxic Inhalation Hazard (TIH) commodity. This is contributing to new restrictions by rail carriers on the movement of anhydrous ammonia and to an escalation in associated rail transport and insurance rates. Overseas, new coal-fired power plants incorporating SCR systems are expected to be constructed at a rapid rate in the PRC, and Fuel Tech’s NOxOUT ULTRA process is believed to be a market leader for the safe delivery of ammonia, particularly near densely populated cities, major waterways, harbors or islands, or where the transport of anhydrous or aqueous ammonia is a safety concern. Fuel Tech has licensed the Rich Reagent Injection Technology from Reaction Engineering International and Electric Power Research Institute. The technology has been proven in full-scale field studies on cyclone-fired units to reduce NOx by 25%-40%. The technology is a generic SNCR process, whose applicability is outside the temperature range of the NOxOUT process. The technology is seen as an add-on to Fuel Tech’s NOxOUT systems, thus potentially broadening the NOx reduction of the combined system to almost 55% with minimal additional capital requirement. 2 Table of Contents Sales of the NOx reduction technologies were $47.8 million, $46.4 million and $32.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. NOx Reduction Competition Competition with Fuel Tech's NOx reduction products can be expected from combustion modifications, SCR and ammonia SNCR, as well as from other licensed market participants. In addition, Fuel Tech experiences competition in the urea-to-ammonia conversion market. Combustion modifications, including low NOx burners, can be fitted to most types of boilers with cost and effectiveness varying with specific boilers. Combustion modifications may effect 20% - 50% NOx reduction economically with capital costs ranging from $5 - $40/kw and levelized total costs ranging from $300 - $1,500/ton of NOx removed. The modifications are designed to reduce the formation of NOx and are typically the first NOx reduction efforts employed. Such companies as Alstom, Foster Wheeler Corporation, The Babcock & Wilcox Company, Nalco Mobotec, Inc. and Babcock Power, Inc. are active competitors in the low-NOx burner business. Once NOx is formed, then the SCR process is an effective and proven method of control for removal of NOx up to 90%. SCR has a high capital cost ranging from $150 - $400/kw on retrofit coal applications. Such companies as Alstom, The Babcock & Wilcox Company, Cormetech, Inc., Ceram Environmental, Inc., Foster Wheeler Corporation, Peerless Manufacturing Company, and Babcock Power, Inc., are active SCR system providers, or providers of the catalyst itself. The use of ammonia as the reagent for the SNCR process was developed by the ExxonMobil Corporation. Fuel Tech understands that the ExxonMobil patents on this process have expired. This process can reduce NOx by 30% - 70% on incinerators, but has limited applicability in the utility industry. Ammonia system capital costs range from $5 - $20/kw, with annualized operating costs ranging from $1,000 - $3,000/ton of NOx removed. These systems require the use of either anhydrous or aqueous ammonia, both of which are hazardous substances. Other NOx reduction competitors include Combustion Components Associates, Inc., which is a licensed implementer of NOxOUT SNCR systems, and Reaction Engineering International, which licenses Rich Reagent Injection Technology to Fuel Tech. In addition to or in lieu of using the foregoing processes, certain customers may elect to close or derate plants, purchase electricity from third-party sources, switch from higher to lower NOx emitting fuels or purchase NOx emission allowances. Lastly, with respect to urea-to-ammonia conversion technologies, a competitive approach to Fuel Tech’s controlled urea decomposition system is available from Wahlco, Inc., which manufactures a system that hydrolyzes urea under high temperature and pressure. 3 Table of Contents FUEL CHEM Product and Markets The FUEL CHEM technology segment revolves around the unique application of specialty chemicals to improve the efficiency, reliability and environmental status of plants operating in the electric utility, industrial, pulp and paper, and waste-to-energy markets. FUEL CHEM programs are currently in place on over 90 combustion units, treating a wide variety of solid and liquid fuels, including coal, heavy oil, biomass and municipal waste. Central to the FUEL CHEM approach is the introduction of chemical reagents, such as magnesium hydroxide, to combustion units via in-body fuel application (pre-combustion) or via direct injection (post-combustion) utilizing Fuel Tech’s proprietary TIFI technology. By attacking performance-hindering problems, such as slagging, fouling, corrosion, opacity, acid plume and loss on ignition (LOI), as well as the formation of sulfur trioxide (SO3), ammonium bisulfate (ABS), particulate matter (PM2.5), carbon dioxide (CO2) and NOx, the Company’s programs offer numerous operational, financial and environmental benefits to owners of boilers, furnaces and other combustion units. The key market dynamic for this product line is the continued use of coal as the principal fuel source for global electricity production. Coal accounts for approximately 49% of all U.S. electricity generation, with U.S. government projections forecasting an increase to approximately 57% by 2030. Coal’s share of global electricity generation is forecast to be approximately 45% by 2030. Major coal consumers include the United States, the PRC and India. The principal markets for this product line are electric power plants burning coals with slag-forming constituents. The slag-forming constituents include sodium, iron and high levels of sulfur. Sodium is typically found in the Powder River Basin coals of Wyoming and Montana. Iron is typically found in coals produced in the Illinois Basin (IB) region. High sulfur content is typical of IB coals and certain Appalachian coals. High sulfur content can give rise to unacceptable levels of SO3 formation in plants with SCR systems and flue gas desulphurization units (scrubbers). The combination of slagging coals and SO3-related issues, such as “blue plume” formation, air pre-heater fouling and corrosion, SCR fouling and the proclivity to suppress certain mercury removal processes, represents attractive market potential for Fuel Tech. Internationally, market opportunities exist in Europe and in the Asia-Pacific region, particularly the PRC and India, where high-slagging coals are fueling a large and growing fleet of power plants. To address the PRC market, where particular emphasis is being placed on energy efficiency, Fuel Tech entered into a one-year exclusive teaming agreement in June 2007 with ITOCHU Hong Kong Ltd., a subsidiary of ITOCHU Corporation. Working under this agreement, the first FUEL CHEM demonstration program in the PRC was announced in January 2008. In addition, Fuel Tech was awarded its first FUEL CHEM demonstration program in India in January 2008. TIFI initiatives aimed at energy efficiency improvements result in reduced CO2 emissions, which potentially can be monetized under provisions of the Kyoto Protocol. A potentially large fuel treatment market exists in Mexico, where high-sulfur, low-grade fuel oil containing vanadium and nickel is the primary source for electricity production. The presence of these metallic constituents promotes slag build-up, and the fuel properties can result in acid gas and particulate emissions in local combustion units. Fuel Tech has successfully treated such units with its TIFI technology. Sales of the FUEL CHEM products were $32.5 million, $28.7 million and $20.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Competition Competition for Fuel Tech's FUEL CHEM product line includes chemicals sold by specialty chemical and combustion engineering companies, such as GE Infrastructure, Ashland Inc. and Environmental Energy Services, Inc. No substantive competition currently exists for Fuel Tech's TIFI technology, which is designed primarily for slag control and SO3 abatement, but there can be no assurance that such lack of substantive competition will continue. PLANT OPTIMIZATION SERVICES While not a separate technology segment, Fuel Tech uses its advanced engineering capabilities to support the sale of its NOx reduction and FUEL CHEM systems, particularly through the use of computational fluid dynamics (“CFD”) tools. These CFD tools assist in the prediction of the behavior of gas flows, thereby enhancing the design, marketing and sale of Fuel Tech’s NOx reduction systems and FUEL CHEM product applications. To further aid the accuracy and expediency with which process solutions could be designed and delivered to a customer, Fuel Tech internally developed a virtual reality-based visualization software for exploring model results and discovering complex process behaviors. Fuel Tech intends to capitalize on its unique capabilities via offering plant optimization services to its customer base in conjunction with the NOx reduction and FUEL CHEM systems. 4 Table of Contents INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Fuel Tech’s products are generally protected by U.S. and non-U.S. patents. Fuel Tech owns 98 granted patents worldwide and has seven patent applications pending in the United States and 37 pending in non-U.S. jurisdictions. These patents cover some 36 inventions, 24 associated with the NOx reduction business; seven associated with the FUEL CHEM business; and five associated with non-commercialized technologies. These inventions represent significant enhancements of the application and performance of the technologies. Further, Fuel Tech believes that the protection provided by the numerous claims in the above referenced patents or patent applications is substantial, and affords Fuel Tech a significant competitive advantage in its business. Accordingly, any significant reduction in the protection afforded by these patents or any significant development in competing technologies could have a material adverse effect on Fuel Tech’s business. EMPLOYEES Fuel Tech has 178 employees, 154 in North America, 13 in China and 11 in Europe. Fuel Tech enjoys good relations with its employees and is not a party to any labor management agreements. 5 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors in Fuel Tech should be mindful of the following risk factors relative to Fuel Tech's business. (i) Lack of Diversification Fuel Tech has two broad technology segments that provide advanced engineering solutions to meet the pollution control, efficiency improvement, and operational optimization needs of energy-related facilities worldwide. They are as follows: - The NOx reduction technology segment, which includes the NOxOUT, NOxOUT CASCADE, NOxOUT ULTRA and NOxOUT-SCR processes for the reduction of NOx emissions in flue gas from boilers, incinerators, furnaces and other stationary combustion sources, and - The fuel treatment chemicals technology segment, which uses chemical processes, including TIFI Targeted In-Furnace Injection technology, to control slagging, fouling, corrosion, opacity, acid plume and loss on ignition, as well as the formation of sulfur trioxide, ammonium bisulfate, particulate matter (PM2.5), carbon dioxide and NOx in furnaces and boilers. An adverse development in Fuel Tech's advanced engineering solution business as a result of competition, technological change, government regulation, or any other factor could have a significantly greater impact than if Fuel Tech maintained more diverse operations. (ii) Competition Competition in the NOx control market will come from processes utilizing low-NOx burners, over-fire air, flue gas recirculation, ammonia SNCR, SCR and, with respect to particular uses of urea not infringing Fuel Tech's patents, urea (see Item 1 "Intellectual Property"). Competition will also come from business practices such as the purchase rather than the generation of electricity, fuel switching, closure or derating of units, and sale or trade of pollution credits. Utilization by customers of such processes or business practices or combinations thereof may adversely affect Fuel Tech's pricing and participation in the NOx control market if customers elect to comply with regulations by methods other than Fuel Tech's NOxOUT or NOxOUT CASCADE Processes. See above text under the captions "Products" and “NOx Reduction Competition.” Competition in the FUEL CHEM markets includes chemicals sold by specialty chemical and combustion engineering companies, such as GE Infrastructure, Ashland Inc. and Environmental Energy Services, Inc. As noted previously, no substantive competition currently exists for Fuel Tech's TIFI technology, which is designed primarily for slag control and SO3 abatement. However, there can be no assurance that such lack of substantive competition will continue. (iii) Dependence on Regulations and Enforcement Fuel Tech's business is significantly impacted by the regulatory environment surrounding the markets in which it serves. Fuel Tech’s business will be adversely impacted to the extent that regulations are repealed or amended to significantly reduce the level of required NOx reduction, or to the extent that regulatory authorities minimize enforcement. See also the text above under the caption “Regulations and Markets.” (iv) Protection of Patents and Proprietary Rights Fuel Tech holds licenses to or owns a number of patents and also has patents pending. There can be no assurance that pending patent applications will be granted or that outstanding patents will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors. Certain critical technology relating to Fuel Tech's products is protected by trademark and trade secret laws and by confidentiality and licensing agreements. There can be no assurance that such protection will prove adequate or that Fuel Tech will have adequate remedies for disclosure of its trade secrets or violations of its intellectual property rights. See Item 1 “Intellectual Property.” (v) Foreign Operations Fuel Tech has recently expanded its operations into the Peoples Republic of China (PRC) via the establishment of a wholly owned subsidiary in Beijing. The Asia-Pacific region, particularly the PRC and India, offers tremendous market opportunity for Fuel Tech as these nations look to establish regulatory policies for improving their environment and utilizing fossil fuels efficiently and effectively. The future business opportunities in these markets are dependent on the implementation of regulatory policies that will benefit Fuel Tech’s technologies. 6 Table of Contents (vi) Product Pricing and Operating Results The onset of significant competition for either of the technology segments might have an adverse impact on product pricing and a resulting adverse impact on realized gross margins and operating profitability. (vii) Raw Material Supply and Pricing The fuel treatment chemicals technology segment is reliant upon a long-term global supply of magnesium hydroxide. Any adverse change in the availability of supply for this chemical will likely have an adverse impact on Fuel Tech’s cost structure. (viii) Changes in Tax and Other Legislation Income tax laws and legislation relating to the regulatory environment may be changed or interpreted in a manner that adversely affects Fuel Tech. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 