RISK FACTORS OF THE BUSINESS Investors in Fuel Tech should be mindful of the following risk factors relative to Fuel Tech's business. (i) Lack of Diversification Fuel Tech has two business segments that provide advanced engineering solutions for the optimization of combustion systems in utility and industrial applications. They are as follows: 3 - - The nitrogen oxide reduction technology segment, which includes the NOxOUT, NOxOUT CASCADE, and NOxOUT-SCR processes for the reduction of nitrogen oxide emissions in flue gas from boilers, incinerators, furnaces and other stationary combustion sources, and - - The fuel treatment chemical segment, which uses chemical processes for the control of slagging, fouling, and corrosion and for plume abatement in furnaces and boilers through the addition of chemicals into the fuel or by Targeted In-Furnace Injection. An adverse development in Fuel Tech's advanced engineering solution business as a result of competition, technological change, government regulation, or any other factor could have a significantly greater impact than if Fuel Tech maintained more diverse operations. (ii) Competition Competition in the NOx control market will come from processes utilizing low-NOx burners, over-fire air, flue gas recirculation, ammonia SNCR, SCR and, with respect to particular uses of urea not infringing Fuel Tech's patents, urea (see Item 2 "Description of Property"). Competition will also come from business practices such as the purchase rather than the generation of electricity, fuel switching, closure or derating of units, and sale or trade of pollution credits. Utilization by customers of such processes or business practices or combinations thereof may adversely affect Fuel Tech's pricing and participation in the NOx control market if customers elect to comply with regulations by methods other than Fuel Tech's NOxOUT or NOxOUT CASCADE Processes. See above text under the captions "Products" and "NOx Reduction Competition." Competition in the FUEL CHEM markets includes chemicals sold by specialty chemical companies, such as GE Betz, Inc., primarily in the traditional heavy-fuel-oil treatment area. As noted previously, no substantive competition currently exists for Fuel Tech's technology for the TIFI of additives for the control of slagging, fouling, and corrosion and for plume abatement. However, there can be no assurance that such lack of substantive competition will continue. (iii) Dependence on Regulations and Enforcement Fuel Tech's business is significantly impacted by the regulatory environment surrounding the markets in which it serves. Fuel Tech's business will be adversely impacted to the extent that regulations are repealed or amended to significantly reduce the level of required NOx reduction, or to the extent that regulatory authorities minimize enforcement. See also the text above under the caption "Regulations and Markets." (iv) Protection of Patents and Proprietary Rights Fuel Tech holds licenses to or owns a number of patents and also has patents pending. There can be no assurance that pending patent applications will be granted or that outstanding patents will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors. Certain critical technology relating to Fuel Tech's products is protected by trademark and trade secret laws and by confidentiality and licensing agreements. There can be no assurance that such protection will prove adequate or that Fuel Tech will have adequate remedies for disclosure of its trade secrets or violations of its intellectual property rights. See Item 2 "Description of Property." 