Item 1A. Risk Factors of the Business 6 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 7 Item 2. Properties 7 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 7 Item 4. Submission of Matters to Vote of Security Holders 7 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchase of Equity Securities 8 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 10 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 11 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 18 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 18 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants and Financial Disclosure 44 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 44 Item 9B. Other Information 44 PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 45 Item 11. Executive Compensation 46 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management 46 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 46 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 46 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 47 Signatures and Certifications 50 ii TABLE OF DEFINED TERMS Term Definition ABC American Bailey Corporation CAAA Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 CDT Clean Diesel Technologies, Inc. CFD Computational Fluid Dynamics Common Shares Shares of the Common Stock of Fuel Tech Common Stock Common Stock of Fuel Tech EPA Environmental Protection Agency EPRI Electric Power Research Institute FUEL CHEM® A trademark used to describe Fuel Tech’s fuel and flue gas treatment processes, including its TIFI™ Targeted In-Furnace Injection™ technology to control slagging, fouling, corrosion and a variety of sulfur trioxide-related issues Fuel Tech Fuel Tech, Inc. and its subsidiaries Investors The purchasers of Fuel Tech securities pursuant to a Securities Purchase Agreement as of March 23, 1998 Loan Notes Nil Coupon Non-redeemable Convertible Unsecured Loan Notes of Fuel Tech NOx Oxides of nitrogen NOxOUT CASCADE® A trademark used to describe Fuel Tech’s combination of NOxOUT and SCR NOxOUT® Process A trademark used to describe Fuel Tech’s SNCR process for the reduction of NOx NOxOUT-SCR® A trademark used to describe Fuel Tech’s direct injection of urea as a catalyst reagent NOxOUT ULTRA® A trademark used to describe Fuel Tech’s process for generating ammonia for use as SCR reagent Rich Reagent Injection Technology (RRI) An SNCR-type process that broadens the NOx reduction capability of the NOxOUT Process at a cost similar to NOxOUT. RRI can also be applied on a stand-alone basis. SCR Selective Catalytic Reduction SIP Call State Implementation Plan Regulation SNCR Selective Non-Catalytic Reduction TCI™ Targeted Corrosion Inhibition™ A FUEL CHEM program designed for high-temperature slag and corrosion control, principally in waste-to-energy boilers TIFI™ Targeted In-Furnace Injection™ A proprietary technology that enables the precise injection of a chemical reagent into a boiler or furnace as part of a FUEL CHEM program. iii iv PART I Forward Looking Statements Statements in this Form 10-K that are not historical facts, so-called "forward-looking statements," are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including those detailed in Fuel Tech's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. See "Risk Factors of the Business" in Item 1A. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Fuel Tech Fuel Tech, Inc. (“Fuel Tech”) is a fully integrated company that uses a suite of advanced technologies to provide boiler optimization, efficiency improvement and air pollution reduction and control solutions to utility and industrial customers worldwide. Originally incorporated in 1987 under the laws of the Netherlands Antilles as Fuel-Tech N.V., Fuel Tech became domesticated in the United States on September 30, 2006, and continues as a Delaware corporation with its corporate headquarters at 512 Kingsland Drive, Batavia, Illinois, 60510-2299. Fuel Tech maintains an Internet web site at www.ftek.com. Fuel Tech's special focus is the worldwide marketing of its nitrogen oxide (“NOx”) reduction and FUEL CHEM® processes. The NOx reduction technology segment, which includes the NOxOUT®, NOxOUT CASCADE®, NOxOUT ULTRA® and NOxOUT-SCR® processes, reduces NOx emissions in flue gas from boilers, incinerators, furnaces and other stationary combustion sources. The FUEL CHEM technology segment improves the efficiency, reliability and environmental status of combustion units by controlling slagging, fouling, corrosion, opacity, acid plume and loss on ignition, as well as the formation of sulfur trioxide, ammonium bisulfate, particulate matter (PM2.5), carbon dioxide and NOx through the addition of chemicals into the fuel or via TIFI™ Targeted In-Furnace Injection™ programs. Fuel Tech has other technologies, both commercial and in the development stage, which are related to the NOxOUT and FUEL CHEM processes or are similar in their technological base. Fuel Tech's business is materially dependent on the continued existence and enforcement of worldwide air quality regulations. American Bailey Corporation Ralph E. Bailey, Executive Chairman and Director of Fuel Tech, and Douglas G. Bailey, Deputy Chairman of Fuel Tech, are shareholders of American Bailey Corporation (“ABC”). Please refer to Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in this document. Additionally, see the more detailed information relating to this subject under the caption “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in Fuel Tech’s Proxy Statement, to be distributed in connection with Fuel Tech’s 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which information is incorporated by reference. NOx Reduction Regulations and Markets The U.S. air pollution control market is the primary driver in Fuel Tech’s NOx reduction technology segment. This market is dependent on air pollution regulations and their continued enforcement. These regulations are based on the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (the “CAAA”), which require reductions in NOx emissions on varying timetables with respect to various sources of emissions. Under the SIP (State Implementation Plan) Call, a regulation promulgated under the Amendments (discussed further below), over 1,000 utility and large industrial boilers in 19 states were required to achieve NOx reduction targets by May 31, 2004. In 1994, governors of 11 Northeastern states, known collectively as the Ozone Transport Region, signed a Memorandum of Understanding requiring utilities to reduce their NOx emissions by 55% to 65% from 1990 levels by May 1999. In 1998, the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) announced more stringent regulations. The Ozone Transport SIP Call regulation, designed to mitigate the effects of wind-aided ozone transported from the Midwestern and Southeastern U.S. into the Northeastern non-attainment areas, required, following the litigation described below, 19 states to make even deeper aggregate reductions of 85% from 1990 levels by May 31, 2004. Over 1,000 utility and large industrial boilers are affected by these mandates. Additionally, most other states with non-attainment areas are also required to meet ambient air quality standards for ozone by 2007. Although the SIP Call was the subject of litigation, an appellate court of the D.C. Circuit upheld the validity of this regulation. This court’s ruling was later affirmed by the U.S. Supreme Court. In February 2001, the U.S. Supreme Court, in a unanimous decision, upheld EPA’s authority to revise the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for ozone to 0.080 parts per million averaged through an eight-hour period from the current 0.120 parts per million for a one-hour period. This more stringent standard provided clarity and impetus for air pollution control efforts well beyond the then current ozone attainment requirement of 2007. In keeping with this trend, the Supreme Court, only days later, denied industry’s attempt to stay the SIP Call, effectively exhausting all means of appeal. 1 On December 23, 2003, the EPA proposed a new regulation affecting the SIP Call states by specifying more expansive NOx reduction. This rule, under the name “Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR),” was issued by the EPA on March 10, 2005. Under CAIR, additional annual NOx reduction requirements were extended to most SIP-affected units in 28 eastern states, commencing in 2009. The Company expects an additional 300 utility boilers to be affected by this rule, which allows a cap and trade format similar to the SIP Call. In an action related to CAIR, on June 15, 2005, the EPA issued the “Clean Air Visibility Rule (CAVR),” which is a nationwide initiative to improve federally preserved areas through reduction of NOx and other pollutants. CAVR expands the NOx reduction market to western states unaffected by CAIR or the SIP Call. Compliance begins in 2013 and the Company believes that CAVR will affect an additional 50 utility boilers and a large number of industrial units in multiple industries. Outside the United States, Fuel Tech sells NOx control systems in Europe. Under European Union Directives, certain waste incinerators and cement plants must be in compliance with specified NOx reduction targets by 2008, while certain power plants must be in compliance by 2010. Another foreign NOx control market representing attractive opportunities for Fuel Tech is the People's Republic of China (PRC). The Government's 11th Five-Year Economic Plan has set pollution control and energy efficiency and savings as the top two priorities. Fuel Tech has viable technologies to help achieve both objectives. While the PRC has taken an initial small step to reduce NOx emissions (by installing low NOx burners) on new electric utility units, on-going research and demonstration projects will generate cost performance data for use in tightening the standards in the near future. The PRC's dominant reliance on coal as an energy resource will not change in the foreseeable future. Clean air has been and will continue to be a pressing issue, especially with the PRC’s booming economy (8%-12% annual GDP increase), expected growth in power production (4%-5% average annual increase through 2020), and an increasingly expanded role in international events and organizations. The PRC is the host of the upcoming 2008 Beijing Summer Olympics and the 2010 Shanghai World Expo. Fuel Tech has gained an enviable market position in NOx control due to the national demonstration projects utilizing NOxOUT CASCADE technology at Jiangsu Kanshan (two new 600 megawatt units), NOxOUT SNCR technology at Jiangyin Ligang (four new 600 megawatt units), and NOxOUT ULTRA technology on two retrofit projects in Beijing. These projects are expected to showcase a wide spectrum of Fuel Tech capabilities for NOx emission control and help gain penetration within the market for new power units now as well as within the larger market for retrofit units later. Products Fuel Tech’s NOx reduction technologies are installed worldwide on over 400 combustion units, including utility, industrial and municipal solid waste applications. Products include customized NOx control systems and patented urea-to-ammonia conversion technology, which can provide safe reagent for use in Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) systems. Fuel Tech's NOxOUT process is a Selective Non-Catalytic Reduction (“SNCR”) process that uses non-hazardous urea as the reagent rather than ammonia. The NOxOUT process on its own is capable of reducing NOx by up to 40% for utilities and by potentially significantly greater amounts for industrial units in many types of plants with capital costs ranging from $5 - $20/kw for utility boilers and with total annualized operating costs ranging from $1,000 - $2,000/ton of NOx removed. Fuel Tech’s NOxOUT CASCADE process uses catalyst as an addition to the NOxOUT process to achieve performance similar to SCR. Based on demonstrations, capital costs for NOxOUT CASCADE systems, at $30 - $60/kw, are significantly less than that of SCRs, which can range as high as $300/kw, while operating costs are competitive with those experienced by SCR systems. Fuel Tech’s NOxOUT-SCR process utilizes urea as a catalyst reagent to achieve NOx reductions of up to 85% from smaller stationary combustion sources with capital and operating costs competitive with equivalently sized, standard SCR systems. Fuel Tech’s NOxOUT ULTRA system is designed to convert urea to ammonia safely and economically for use as a reagent in the SCR process for NOx reduction. In this fashion, Fuel Tech intends to participate in the SCR segment of the U.S. SIP Call and CAIR driven markets. Recent local hurdles in the ammonia permitting process have raised concerns regarding the safety of ammonia storage in quantities sufficient to supply SCR. In addition, as new power plants are constructed in the PRC during the next several years with SCR systems, Fuel Tech’s NOxOUT ULTRA process is believed to be a leading candidate for the safe delivery of ammonia, particularly near densely populated cities, major waterways, harbors or islands, or where the transport of anhydrous ammonia is a safety concern. Fuel Tech has sublicensed the Rich Reagent Injection Technology from Reaction Engineering International, which has a direct license from the Electric Power Research Institute. The technology has been proven in full-scale field studies on cyclone-fired units to reduce NOx by 25%-40%. The technology is a generic SNCR process, whose applicability is outside the temperature range of the NOxOUT process. The technology is seen as an add-on to Fuel Tech’s NOxOUT systems, thus potentially broadening the NOx reduction of the combined system to almost 55% with minimal additional capital requirement. Sales of the NOx reduction technologies were $46.4 million, $32.6 million and $14.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 2 NOx Reduction Competition Competition with Fuel Tech's NOx reduction products can be expected from combustion modifications, SCR and ammonia SNCR, as well as from other licensed market participants. In addition, Fuel Tech experiences competition in the urea-to-ammonia conversion market. Combustion modifications, including low NOx burners, can be fitted to most types of boilers with cost and effectiveness varying with specific boilers. Combustion modifications may effect 20-50% NOx reduction economically with capital costs ranging from $5 - $40/kw and levelized total costs ranging from $300 - $1,500/ton of NOx removed. The modifications are designed to reduce the formation of NOx and are typically the first NOx reduction efforts employed. Such companies as Alstom, Foster Wheeler Corporation, The Babcock & Wilcox Company and Babcock Power, Inc. are active competitors in the low-NOx burner business. Once NOx is formed then the SCR is an effective and proven method of control for the removal of up to 90% of NOx. SCR has a high capital cost ranging from $150 - $300/kw on retrofit coal applications. Such companies as Alstom, The Babcock & Wilcox Company, Cormetech, Inc., Ceram Environmental, Inc., Foster Wheeler Corporation, Peerless Manufacturing Company, and the Siemens Westinghouse Power Corporation are active SCR system providers, or providers of the catalyst itself. The use of ammonia as the reagent for the SNCR process was developed by the ExxonMobil Corporation. Fuel Tech understands that the ExxonMobil patents on this process have expired. This process can reduce NOx by 30% - 70% on incinerators, but has limited applicability in the utility industry. Ammonia system capital costs range from $15 - $20/kw, with annualized operating costs ranging from $1,000 - $3,000/ton of NOx removed. These systems require the use of stored ammonia, a hazardous substance. Other NOx reduction competitors include Combustion Components Associates, which is a licensed implementer of NOxOUT SNCR systems, and Reaction Engineering International, which sublicenses Rich Reagent Injection Technology to Fuel Tech. In addition to or in lieu of using the foregoing processes, certain customers will elect to close or derate plants, purchase electricity from third-party sources, switch from higher to lower NOx emitting fuels or purchase NOx emission allowances. Lastly, with respect to urea-to-ammonia conversion technologies, a competitive approach to Fuel Tech’s controlled urea decomposition system is available from Wahlco, Inc., which manufactures a system that hydrolyzes urea under high temperature and pressure. 3 FUEL CHEM Product and Markets The FUEL CHEM technology segment revolves around the unique application of specialty chemicals to improve the efficiency, reliability and environmental status of plants operating in the electric utility, industrial, pulp and paper, and waste-to-energy markets. FUEL CHEM programs are currently in place on over 50 combustion units, treating a wide variety of solid and liquid fuels, including coal, heavy oil, biomass and municipal waste. Central to the FUEL CHEM approach is the introduction of chemical reagents, such as magnesium hydroxide, to combustion units via in-body fuel application (pre-combustion) or via direct injection (post-combustion) utilizing Fuel Tech’s proprietary TIFI technology. By attacking performance-hindering problems, such as slagging, fouling, corrosion, opacity, acid plume and loss on ignition (LOI), as well as the formation of sulfur trioxide (SO3), ammonium bisulfate (ABS), particulate matter (PM2.5), carbon dioxide (CO2) and NOx, the Company’s programs offer numerous operational, financial and environmental benefits to owners of boilers, furnaces and other combustion units. The key market dynamic for this product line is the continued use of coal as the principal fuel source for global electricity production. Coal accounts for approximately 50% of all U.S. electricity generation, with U.S. government projections forecasting an increase to approximately 57% by 2030. Coal’s share of global electricity generation is forecast to remain at approximately 41% through 2030. Major coal consumers include the United States, the PRC and India. The principal markets for this product line are electric power plants burning coals with slag- forming constituents. The slag-forming constituents are sodium, iron and high sulfur content. Sodium is typically found in the Powder River Basin coals of Wyoming and Montana. Iron is typically found in coals produced in the Illinois Basin (IB) region. High sulfur content is typical of IB coals and certain Appalachian coals. High sulfur content can give rise to unacceptable levels of SO3 formation in plants with SCR systems and flue gas desulphurization units (scrubbers). The combination of slagging coals and SO3-related issues, such as “blue plume” formation, air pre-heater fouling and corrosion, SCR fouling and the proclivity to suppress certain mercury removal processes, represents attractive market potential for Fuel Tech. Internationally, market opportunities exist in Europe and in the Asia-Pacific region, particularly the PRC and India, where high-slagging coals are fueling a large and growing fleet of power plants. In addition, TIFI initiatives aimed at energy efficiency improvements often result in reduced CO2 emissions, which can potentially be monetized under provisions of the Kyoto Protocol. A potentially large fuel treatment market exists in Mexico, where high-sulfur, low-grade fuel oil containing vanadium and nickel is the primary source for electricity production. The presence of these metallic constituents promotes slag build-up, and the fuel properties may result in acid gas and particulate emissions in local combustion units. Fuel Tech has successfully treated such units with its TIFI technology. Sales of the FUEL CHEM products were $28.7 million, $20.3 million and $16.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Competition Competition for Fuel Tech's FUEL CHEM product line includes chemicals sold by specialty chemical and combustion engineering companies, such as GE Infrastructure, Ashland Inc. and Environmental Energy Services, Inc. No substantive competition currently exists for Fuel Tech's TIFI technology, which is designed primarily for slag control and SO3 abatement, but there can be no assurance that such lack of substantive competition will continue. PLANT OPTIMIZATION SERVICES Fuel Tech uses its advanced engineering capabilities to support the sale of its NOx reduction and FUEL CHEM systems, particularly through the use of computational fluid dynamics (“CFD”) tools. These CFD tools assist in the prediction of the behavior of gas flows, thereby enhancing the design, marketing and sale of Fuel Tech’s NOx reduction systems and FUEL CHEM product applications. To further aid the accuracy and expediency with which process solutions could be designed and delivered to a customer, Fuel Tech internally developed a virtual reality-based visualization software for exploring model results and discovering complex process behaviors. Fuel Tech intends to capitalize on its unique capabilities via offering plant optimization services to its customer base, either in conjunction with the NOx reduction and FUEL CHEM systems or on a stand alone basis. 4 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY See Item 2 "Description of Property" for information on Fuel Tech's intellectual property and proprietary position, which are material to its business. EMPLOYEES Fuel Tech has 137 employees, 129 in North America and 8 in Europe. Fuel Tech enjoys good relations with its employees and is not a party to any labor management agreements. 5 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS OF THE BUSINESS Investors in Fuel Tech should be mindful of the following risk factors relative to Fuel Tech's business. (i) Lack of Diversification Fuel Tech has two broad technology segments which provide advanced engineering solutions to meet the pollution control, efficiency improvement, and operational optimization needs of energy-related facilities worldwide. They are as follows: · The NOx reduction technology segment, which includes the NOxOUT, NOxOUT CASCADE, NOxOUT ULTRA and NOxOUT-SCR processes for the reduction of NOx emissions in flue gas from boilers, incinerators, furnaces and other stationary combustion sources, and · The fuel treatment chemicals technology segment, which uses chemical processes, including TIFI Targeted In-Furnace Injection technology, to control slagging, fouling, corrosion, opacity, acid plume and loss on ignition, as well as the formation of sulfur trioxide, ammonium bisulfate, particulate matter (PM2.5), carbon dioxide and NOx in furnaces and boilers. An adverse development in Fuel Tech's advanced engineering solution business as a result of competition, technological change, government regulation, or any other factor could have a significantly greater impact than if Fuel Tech maintained more diverse operations. (ii) Competition Competition in the NOx control market will come from processes utilizing low-NOx burners, over-fire air, flue gas recirculation, ammonia SNCR, SCR and, with respect to particular uses of urea not infringing Fuel Tech's patents, urea (see Item 2 "Description of Property"). Competition will also come from business practices such as the purchase rather than the generation of electricity, fuel switching, closure or derating of units, and sale or trade of pollution credits. Utilization by customers of such processes or business practices or combinations thereof may adversely affect Fuel Tech's pricing and participation in the NOx control market if customers elect to comply with regulations by methods other than Fuel Tech's NOxOUT or NOxOUT CASCADE Processes. See above text under the captions "Products" and “NOx Reduction Competition.” Competition in the FUEL CHEM markets includes chemicals sold by specialty chemical and combustion engineering companies, such as GE Infrastructure, Ashland Inc. and Environmental Energy Services, Inc. As noted previously, no substantive competition currently exists for Fuel Tech's TIFI technology, which is designed primarily for slag control and SO3 abatement. However, there can be no assurance that such lack of substantive competition will continue. (iii) Dependence on Regulations and Enforcement Fuel Tech's business is significantly impacted by the regulatory environment surrounding the markets in which it serves. Fuel Tech’s business will be adversely impacted to the extent that regulations are repealed or amended to significantly reduce the level of required NOx reduction, or to the extent that regulatory authorities minimize enforcement. See also the text above under the caption “Regulations and Markets.” (iv) Protection of Patents and Proprietary Rights Fuel Tech holds licenses to or owns a number of patents and also has patents pending. There can be no assurance that pending patent applications will be granted or that outstanding patents will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors. Certain critical technology relating to Fuel Tech's products is protected by trademark and trade secret laws and by confidentiality and licensing agreements. There can be no assurance that such protection will prove adequate or that Fuel Tech will have adequate remedies for disclosure of its trade secrets or violations of its intellectual property rights. See Item 2 “Description of Property.” 6 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 