Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. The Company originates commercial mortgage loans, commercial business loans, consumer loans, and residential mortgage loans primarily within our market area. Commercial mortgage, commercial business, and consumer loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, commercial real estate and commercial business loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of borrowers. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: • Commercial Mortgage Loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. • Commercial Loans. Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. • Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) may or may not be collateralized with assets that provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. Any downturn in the real estate market or local economy could adversely affect the value of the properties securing the loans or revenues from the borrower’s business thereby increasing the risk of non-performing loans. If the Company’s allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, earnings could decrease. The Company’s loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. The Company therefore may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on operating results. Material additions to the allowance for loan losses also would materially decrease net income, and the charge-off of loans may cause management to increase the allowance. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of the loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of the loans. The Company relies on loan quality reviews, experience and evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses. If any of management’s assumptions prove to be incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s profitability, like that of most financial institutions, depends substantially on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. In addition, as market interest rates rise, there will be competitive pressures to increase the rates paid on deposits, which will result in a decrease of net interest income. The Company is also subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, the Company is subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that it is unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Earnings may be adversely impacted by an increase in interest rates because a significant portion of the Company’s interest-earning assets are long-term, fixed rate mortgage-related assets that will not reprice as long- 69 Table of Contents term interest rates increase while a majority of interest-bearing liabilities are expected to reprice as interest rates increase. Therefore, in an increasing interest rate environment, the cost of funds is expected to increase more rapidly than the yields earned on the loan portfolio and securities portfolio. An increasing rate environment is expected to cause a narrowing of the net interest rate spread and a decrease in net interest income. The local economy may affect future growth possibilities. The Company’s current market area is principally located in Merrimack, Sullivan, Hillsboro, and Grafton Counties, which are located in west-central New Hampshire. Future growth opportunities depend on the growth and stability of the regional economy and the Company’s ability to expand its market area. A downturn in the local economy may limit funds available for deposit and may negatively affect borrowers’ ability to repay their loans on a timely basis, both of which could have an impact on profitability. The Company depends on its executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of its long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. Management believes that the continued growth and future success of the Company will depend in large part upon the skills of the management team. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect the business. The Company cannot assure you that it will be able to retain existing key personnel or attract additional qualified personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of the Company’s executive officers and key personnel could impair its ability to continue to develop its business strategy. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment, and changes in laws and regulations to which it is subject may adversely affect its results of operations. The Company is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS, as the Bank’s chartering authority, by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) as the insurer of the Bank’s deposits up to certain limits, and by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, of which the Bank is a member, and which regulates and oversees the Company as a bank holding company. The Bank also belongs to the Federal Home Loan Bank System and, as a member of such system, is subject to certain limited regulations promulgated by the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston. This regulation and supervision limits the activities in which the Company and the Bank may engage. The purpose of regulation and supervision is primarily to protect the Bank’s depositors and borrowers and, in the case of FDIC regulation, the FDIC’s insurance fund. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution’s allowance for loan losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection and civil rights laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to the Company or the Bank, or in banking regulators’ supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the OTS, the FDIC, other state or federal regulators, or the United States Congress could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Competition in the Bank’s primary market area may reduce its ability to attract and retain deposits and originate loans. The Company contends with considerable competition both in generating loans and attracting deposits. The Company’s competition for loans is primarily from other thrift institutions, commercial banks, and mortgage banking companies. Competitive factors considered for loan generation include interest rates offered, loan fees charged, loan products offered, services provided, and geographic locations. In attracting deposits, the Company’s primary competitors are other thrift institutions and commercial banks. The Bank faces additional significant competition for investors’ funds from mutual funds and other corporate and government securities. Competitive factors considered in attracting and retaining deposits include deposit and investment products and their respective rate of return, liquidity, and risk among other factors, convenient branch location and hours of operation, personalized customer service, online access to accounts, and automated teller machines. 70 Table of Contents If the Company is unable to compete successfully, the business and operations could be adversely affected. Competition for loan originations and deposits may limit future growth and earnings prospects. If the Company fails to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, it may not be able to accurately report financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in the Company’s financial reporting, which could adversely affect its business, the trading price of its stock and its ability to attract additional deposits. Beginning with the Company’s annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, the Company will have to include in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) a report of management regarding internal control over financial reporting. As a result, the Company recently began to document and evaluate its internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) and SEC rules and regulations, which require an annual management report on internal control over financial reporting, including, among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and an attestation report by the Company’s independent auditors addressing these assessments. Accordingly, management has retained outside consultants to assist in (i) assessing and documenting the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, (ii) improving control processes, where appropriate, and (iii) verifying through testing that controls are functioning as documented. If the Company fails to identify and correct any significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting or fails to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders and depositors could lose confidence in the Company’s financial reporting, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of its stock and its ability to attract additional deposits. The Company’s Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws may prevent a transaction you may favor or limit growth opportunities, which could cause the market price of the Company’s common stock to decline. Certain provisions of the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws and applicable provisions of Delaware or federal law and regulations may delay, inhibit or prevent an organization or person from gaining control of the Company though a tender offer, business combination, proxy contest or some other method, even though you might be in favor of the transaction. The Company may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice. The Company pays a quarterly dividend to shareholders. However, the Company is dependent primarily upon the Bank for its earnings and funds to pay dividends on its common stock. The payment of dividends also is subject to legal and regulatory restrictions. Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Bank’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by the Board of Directors. 71 Table of Contents 