ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The loss of any of our current major customers, or our inability to maintain or negotiate at renewal or otherwise favorable contractual terms with these customers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We have agreements with the ten largest U.S. cable MSOs and two largest U.S. DBS providers. For our fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, the aggregate revenue we received from our major customers (customers that account for 10% or more of our consolidated revenue, namely Comcast, DISH, DirecTV and Time Warner) was approximately 65% of our total company-wide revenue. Our 10 Table of Contents agreements with these operators may be terminated without penalty and with little advance notice, and as a result are sometimes subject to renegotiation during their stated term. If one or more of these cable MSO or DBS operators terminates or does not renew our agreements, or negotiates mid-term or agrees only to renew the agreements on terms less favorable than those of our current agreements (including removing or replacing with a competitive offering one or more of our channels from their platforms), our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely effected. We rely on third party service providers to deliver our content to our customers via satellite uplink services. If this service were disrupted, it could cause us to lose subscriber revenue and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Our satellite uplink provider's services are critical to us. If our satellite uplink provider fails to provide the contracted uplinking services, our satellite programming operations would in all likelihood be suspended, resulting in a loss of substantial revenue. If our satellite uplink provider improperly manages its uplink facilities, we could experience signal disruptions and other quality problems that, if not immediately addressed, could cause us to lose customers and the related revenue. Our continued access to satellite transponders is critical to us. Our satellite programming operations require continued access to satellite transponders to transmit programming to our subscribers. We also use satellite transponders to transmit programming to cable operators and DBS providers. Material limitations to satellite transponder capacity could materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Access to transponders may be restricted or denied if: •we or the satellite owner is indicted or otherwise charged as a defendant in a criminal proceeding; •the Federal Communications Commission issues an order initiating a proceeding to revoke the satellite owner's authorization to operate the satellite; •the satellite owner is ordered by a court or governmental authority to deny us access to the transponder; •a governmental authority commences an investigation concerning the content of the transmissions; •we are deemed by a governmental authority to have violated any obscenity law; or •our satellite transponder provider determines that the content of our programming is harmful to its name or business. Our ability to convince cable operators and DBS providers to carry our programming is critical to us. We can give no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain carriage with cable operators and DBS providers in the future. If we are unable to compete effectively with other forms of adult and non-adult entertainment, we will not be able to sustain or increase revenue. Our ability to increase or sustain revenue is impacted by our ability to compete effectively with other forms of adult and non-adult entertainment. We face competition in the adult entertainment industry from other providers of adult programming, adult video/DVD rentals and sales, books and magazines aimed at adult consumers, adult oriented telephone chat lines, adult oriented internet services, including free website content services, premium movie channels that broadcast adult-themed content and adult oriented wireless services. To a lesser extent, we also face general competition from other forms of non-adult entertainment, including sporting and cultural events, other television networks, feature films, and other programming and entertainment options. 11 Table of Contents Our ability to compete depends on a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include the quality and appeal of our competitors' content relative to our offerings; the strength of our competitors' brands; the technology utilized by our competitors; the effectiveness of our competitors' sales, marketing efforts and the attractiveness of their product offerings; general consumer behaviors; and preferences on how consumers choose to spend their discretionary income. Our existing competitors, as well as potential new competitors, may have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, as well as better name recognition than we do. This may allow them to devote greater resources than we can to the development and promotion of their product offerings. These competitors may also engage in more extensive technology research and development, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies for their content. Additionally, increased competition could result in license fee reductions, lower margins and a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. The popularity and notoriety of free adult entertainment through low cost and free websites has resulted in additional pressure on our business. The quality and quantity of content available on these free and low cost websites has improved. The content we sell through the Transactional TV segment typically has a retail price between $10.99 and $14.99 and is typically less explicit than the content offered on internet websites. As a result of the recent deterioration in economic conditions, customers may view internet delivered content as a replacement to our content based on the difference in cost, edit standard and availability of certain niche content that we do not distribute. A migration of customers to internet delivered content could result in a decline in our buy rates and have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. The continued addition of new competitors to our business could have a material adverse affect on our operating performance. We face competition from established adult video producers, as well as independent companies that distribute adult entertainment, some of which is provided for free through internet websites. These competitors may include producers such as Hustler, Wicked Pictures and Vivid Entertainment. In the event that cable and/or satellite companies seek to purchase adult video content for their VOD service directly from adult video producers or other independent distributors of such content, our VOD business is likely to suffer. In addition, increased competition in the adult category could lead to downward pressure on the license fees that our customers are willing to pay for our content. We may incur costs to defend ourselves against legal claims initiated in connection with our distribution of adult-themed content. Because of the adult-oriented content that we distribute, we may be subject to obscenity or other legal claims by third parties. Our financial position and results of operations could be harmed if we were found liable for this content or if costs to defend such claims proved significant. Implementing measures to reduce our exposure to this liability may require us to take steps that would substantially limit the attractiveness of our content and/or its availability in various geographic areas, which would negatively impact our ability to generate revenue. Furthermore, our insurance may not adequately protect us against all of these types of claims. Increased government regulation in the United States and abroad could impede our ability to deliver our content and expand our business. New laws or regulations, or the new application of existing laws could prevent us from making our content available in various jurisdictions or otherwise have a material adverse affect on our business, financial position and operating results. These new laws or regulations may relate to liability for information retrieved from or transmitted over the internet, taxation, user privacy and other matters 12 Table of Contents relating to our products and services. Moreover, the application of internet related laws governing issues such as intellectual property ownership and infringement, pornography, obscenity, libel, employment, and personal privacy is still developing. Cable and DBS operators could become subject to new governmental regulations that could further restrict their ability to broadcast our programming. If new regulations make it more difficult for cable and DBS operators to broadcast our programming, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Continued imposition of tighter processing restrictions by the various credit card associations and acquiring banks could make it more difficult to generate revenue from our Direct-to-Consumer segment. Our ability to accept credit cards as a form of payment for our products and services is critical to our Direct-to-Consumer segment. Unlike a merchant handling a sales transaction in a card present environment, the e-commerce merchant is 100% responsible for all fraud perpetrated against them. Our ability to accept credit cards as a form of payment for our products and services has been or could further be restricted or denied for a number of reasons, including but not limited to: •excessive chargebacks and/or credits; •excessive fraud ratios; •changes in policy of the acquiring banks and/or card associations with respect to the processing of credit card charges for adult-related content; •a continued tightening of credit card association chargeback regulations in international areas of commerce; •new association requirements for new technologies that consumers are less likely to use; and •increases in the number of European and U.S. banks that will not accept accounts selling adult-related content. The Direct-to-Consumer segment currently utilizes several companies to process most of the credit cards for its services. If these credit card companies were to experience liquidity issues, become unable to process our monthly credit card transactions or unexpectedly change their credit requirements or operating procedures resulting in higher fees or reserves, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. If the credit card companies that process transactions for our Direct-to-Consumer segment experience liquidity issues or are unable to continue to operate as a going concern through the current economic downturn, we may be unable to recover funds due to us from these credit card companies. The credit card companies that we currently utilize to process Direct-to-Consumer segment transactions withhold a portion of the funds transacted as a reserve against future potential customer chargebacks and/or credits. These funds may not be released to the Company until up to eighteen months after we discontinue our arrangement with the related credit card processor. The total funds withheld by credit card processors at March 31, 2009 were $0.5 million and were classified within long-term assets as other assets. If our credit card processors experience liquidity issues or are unable to continue to operate as a going concern and are unable to release these funds to us, we would be required to write-off the related long-term asset balance which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents If the Film Production segment produces, acquires or represents film content that is not well-received by our customers, we may not be able to re-coup the investments made in the film. We have a history of impairing titles in our content library and recoupable costs associated with our repped content when the future expected economic benefits to be derived by a particular film or event are not estimated to be sufficient to recover its related carrying value. The Film Production segment's ability to continue to create or acquire film content and obtain rights to represent content that is well-received by our customers is critical to the segment's future success. If a film produced, acquired or represented by the Film Production segment does not sell as well as anticipated, we may not be able to recover our investment in the film, including, but not limited to, the cost of producing or acquiring the film, the costs associated with promoting the film, costs associated with post-production work on the film, or advances and other recoupable costs associated with representing a film. No assurance can be given that the Film Production segment's past success in generating profits from its investment in its films will continue. Antitakeover provisions in our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended, and our Rights Agreement may discourage or prevent a change of control. Our charter documents may inhibit a takeover or change in our control that our shareholders may consider beneficial. Provisions in our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition of us, or making a merger or acquisition less desirable to a potential acquirer, even where the shareholders may consider the acquisition or merger favorable. For example, our Board of Directors, without further shareholder approval, may issue preferred stock that could delay or prevent a change of control as well as reduce the voting power of the holders of common stock, even with the effect of losing control to others. In addition, our Board of Directors has adopted a Rights Agreement, commonly known as a "poison pill," that may delay or prevent a change of control and may also make a merger or acquisition of us less desirable. If a change of control transaction perceived by the shareholders to be in their best interest were delayed or blocked by our protective measures, the value of an investment in our securities may be negatively impacted. If we are not able to retain our key executives it will be more difficult for us to manage our operations and our financial position or result of operations could be adversely affected. With only approximately 160 employees, our success depends greatly upon the contributions of our executive officers and our other key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. No assurance can be given that New Frontier Media will be successful in attracting and retaining these personnel. Our inability to identify, fund the investment in, and commercially exploit new technology could have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. We are engaged in a business that has experienced tremendous technological change over the past several years and will likely continue to experience further changes. As a result, we face all the risks inherent in businesses that are subject to rapid technological advancement, such as the possibility that a technology that we have invested in becomes obsolete, our inability to identify in a timely manner emerging technologies that may impact our business, or technology advancement may make our offerings obsolete. In any such event, we may be required to invest significant amounts of capital in new technology. Our inability to identify, fund the investment in, and commercially exploit such new technology could have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. Our ability to implement our business plan and to achieve the results projected by management will be dependent upon management's ability to predict technological advances and implement strategies to take 14 Table of Contents advantage of such changes. We may also experience impairments related to existing investments that we have made in new technology. Negative publicity, lawsuits or boycotts by opponents of adult content could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations and discourage investors from investing in our publicly traded securities. We could become a target of negative publicity, lawsuits or boycotts by one or more advocacy groups who oppose the distribution of "adult entertainment." These groups have mounted negative publicity campaigns, filed lawsuits and encouraged boycotts against companies whose businesses involve adult entertainment. The costs of defending against any such negative publicity, lawsuits or boycotts could be significant, could hurt our finances and could discourage investors from investing in our publicly traded securities. To date, we have not been a target of any of these advocacy groups. As a leading provider of adult entertainment, we cannot assure you that we may not become a target in the future. Because we are involved in the adult programming business, it may be more difficult for us to raise money or attract market support for our stock. Some banking entities, investors, investment banking entities, market makers, lenders and other service providers in the investment community may decide not to provide financing to us, or to participate in our public market or other activities due to the nature of our business, which, in turn, may adversely impact the value of our stock, and our ability to attract market support or obtain financing. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights or others may claim that we are infringing on their intellectual property. During fiscal year 2008, we acquired certain intellectual property rights. Third parties could assert infringement claims against our business in the future. Claims for infringement of all types of intellectual property rights are a common source of litigation. Infringement claims can require us to modify our products, services and technologies or require us to obtain a license to permit our continued use of those rights. We may not be able to do either of these things in a timely manner or upon reasonable terms and conditions. Failure to do so could harm our financial position and results of operations. In addition, future litigation relating to infringement claims could result in substantial costs to us and a diversion of management resources. Adverse determinations in any litigation or proceeding could also subject us to significant liabilities and could prevent us from selling some of our products, services or technologies. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate them or otherwise independently develop substantially equivalent products and services. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection could harm our business. If we experienced system failures, the services we provide to our customers could be delayed or interrupted, which could harm our business reputation and result in a loss of customers. Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operations of our Digital Broadcast Center and related systems. Any significant interruptions could severely harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of revenue and customers. Our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, unlawful acts, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. Although we have taken steps to prevent system failures, we cannot be certain that our measures will be successful and that we will not experience service interruptions. Further, our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. 15 Table of Contents Our goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets may have further impairment losses. We conducted impairment tests of goodwill and other intangible assets as of December 31, 2008 and our annual goodwill and intangible assets impairment tests as of March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. We also perform quarterly analyses on the valuation of long-lived assets including our prepaid distribution rights, film library, recoupable costs and producer advances, and other long-lived assets. We recognized the following impairment charges in our statements of operations: Year Ended March 31, 2009 2008 2007 Goodwill $ 10,009 $ — $ — Film costs 1,062 684 — Intangible assets 938 — — Prepaid distribution rights — — 436 Other long-lived assets 235 466 97 Total impairment loss $ 12,244 $ 1,150 $ 533 If our goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets' future benefit does not exceed its carrying value, we may be required to further write down the related assets. Declines in the future benefits from these assets could cause us to incur additional impairment losses, which could materially effect our financial position and results of operations. The ongoing uncertainty in general economic and market conditions could increase the likelihood of additional asset impairment losses being recorded in future periods. In addition, the determination of the fair value of goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets is subject to a high degree of judgment and complexity and changes in the estimates used in the determination of the fair value of these assets could materially effect our financial position and results of operations. We may pursue acquisitions, joint ventures, new services and other strategic transactions and activities to complement or expand our business and add shareholder value which may not be successful. Our future success may depend on opportunities to acquire or form strategic partnerships with other businesses or technologies or establish new services that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. We may not be able to complete such transactions or activities and such transactions or activities, if executed, could pose significant risks and could have a negative effect on our financial position and results of operations. Any transactions or activities that we are able to identify and complete may involve a number of risks, including: •the diversion of our management's attention from our existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired, combined or created business or joint venture; •the diversion of our management's attention from existing business to create new services; •possible adverse effects on our financial position and results of operations during the integration process or implementation process; and •the inability to achieve the intended objectives of the transactions or activities. In addition, we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage our newly acquired operations, employees or activities. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and this may lead to operational inefficiencies. New acquisitions, joint ventures, new services and other transactions may require the commitment of significant capital that would otherwise be directed to investments in our existing businesses or be 16 Table of Contents distributed to shareholders. Commitment of this capital may cause us to defer or suspend any common stock dividends or share repurchases that we otherwise may have made. Current market volatility and difficult economic conditions may materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations. The global capital and credit markets have deteriorated significantly in recent months, resulting in the failure of major financial institutions, the reluctance of other major financial institutions to lend money, an increase in commercial and consumer delinquencies, a lack of consumer confidence, and a widespread reduction generally of business activity. If these conditions continue, which may be likely for the foreseeable future, or worsen, our ability to borrow funds or obtain other financing on terms acceptable to us could be materially adversely affected. These conditions could also, among other things, negatively impact our customers' ability to pay us, the number of subscribers and purchasers of our products and services, and require us to increase our reserves for bad debt, the occurrence of any or all of which could materially and negatively impact our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. We experienced a downturn in our Film Production segment results during the third quarter of fiscal year 2009 and recorded goodwill and other impairment charges in connection with that segment's deterioration in performance related to the downturn in the economy. Our Film Production segment has also experienced difficulty in obtaining higher quality repped content because some film producers are unable to obtain financing for their film production. Additionally, the adverse economic conditions contributed to restructuring and intangible asset impairment charges during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009 in connection with unfavorable results connected to an IPTV test business model and other initiatives within the Direct-to-Consumer segment. Although our Transactional TV segment revenue increased in fiscal year 2009 as compared to the prior fiscal year, revenue has trended lower in the second half of fiscal year 2009 as compared to the first half of fiscal year 2009 as a result of the increasingly difficult economic conditions. If the difficult economic conditions persist or worsen, our financial condition and results of operations would also be materially adversely impacted. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 