ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The loss of any of our current major customers, or our inability to maintain or negotiate at renewal or otherwise favorable contractual terms with these customers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We have agreements with the ten largest U.S. cable MSOs and two largest U.S. DBS providers. For our fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, the aggregate revenue we received from our major customers (customers that account for 10% or more of our consolidated net revenue during any one of the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011, 2010 or 2009, namely Comcast, DISH, DirecTV and Time Warner) was approximately 46% of our total company-wide revenue. Our agreements with these operators may be terminated without penalty and with little advance notice, and as a result are sometimes subject to renegotiation during their stated term. If one or more of these cable MSO or DBS operators terminates or does not renew our agreements, or negotiates mid-term or agrees only to renew the agreements on terms less favorable than those of our current agreements (including removing or replacing with a competitive offering or otherwise one or more of our PPV channels or VOD offerings from their platforms), our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely effected. 11 Table of Contents If the general economic environment, consumer discretionary spending or other conditions continue to be unfavorable or further deteriorate, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. We believe consumers view our content as a discretionary item rather than a necessity. Accordingly, our results of operations tend to be more sensitive to changes in macroeconomic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Other factors, including consumer confidence, employment levels, interest rates, tax rates, consumer debt levels, and fuel and energy costs, could reduce consumer spending or change consumer purchasing habits. We believe many of these factors have adversely affected consumer spending during each of our three fiscal years ended March 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, and, consequently, our business and results of operations. For example, our Transactional TV segment revenue decreased in fiscal year 2011 by approximately 4% despite generating international revenue of $5.9 million. We also experienced challenging conditions within our Film Production segment that caused operating losses during fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009. If the general economic environment, consumer discretionary spending or other conditions continue to be unfavorable or further deteriorate, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. We rely on third party service providers to deliver our content to our customers via satellite uplink, transponder and VOD transport services. If these services were disrupted, it could cause us to lose revenue and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Our satellite uplink, transponder and VOD transport provider services are critical to us. If our service providers fail to provide the contracted services, our programming operations would in all likelihood be suspended, resulting in a loss of substantial revenue. If our satellite uplink and transponder providers improperly manage their facilities, we could experience signal disruptions and other quality problems that, if not immediately addressed, could cause us to lose revenue. All our domestic Transactional TV segment VOD transport services are provided by TVN Entertainment Corporation (TVN). If TVN fails to provide the contracted services, our domestic Transactional TV segment VOD programming operations would in all likelihood be suspended resulting in a materially adverse impact to our financial position and results of operations. Our continued access to satellite transponders is critical to us. Our satellite transponder agreements expire through October 2013. Our satellite programming operations require continued access to satellite transponders to transmit programming to our cable and DBS customers. Limitations to satellite transponder capacity could materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Access to transponders may be restricted or denied if: •we or the satellite owner is indicted or otherwise charged as a defendant in a criminal proceeding; •the Federal Communications Commission issues an order initiating a proceeding to revoke the satellite owner's authorization to operate the satellite; •the satellite owner is ordered by a court or governmental authority to deny us access to the transponder; •a governmental authority commences an investigation concerning the content of the transmissions; •we are deemed by a governmental authority to have violated any obscenity law; or •our satellite transponder provider determines that the content of our programming is harmful to its name or business. 12 Table of Contents Our ability to convince cable operators and DBS providers to carry our programming is critical to us. We can give no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain carriage with cable operators and DBS providers in the future. If we are unable to compete effectively with other forms of adult and non-adult entertainment, we will not be able to sustain or increase revenue. Our ability to increase or sustain revenue is impacted by our ability to compete effectively with other forms of adult and non-adult entertainment. We face competition in the adult entertainment industry from other providers of adult programming, adult video/DVD rentals and sales, books and magazines aimed at adult consumers, adult-oriented telephone chat lines, adult-oriented internet services, including free website content services, premium movie channels that broadcast adult-themed content and adult-oriented wireless services. To a lesser extent, we also face general competition from other forms of non-adult entertainment, including sporting and cultural events, other television networks, feature films, and other programming and entertainment options. Our ability to compete depends on a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: the quality and appeal of our competitors' content relative to our offerings; the strength of our competitors' brands; the technology utilized by our competitors; the effectiveness of our competitors' sales, marketing efforts and the attractiveness of their product offerings; general consumer behaviors; and preferences on how consumers choose to spend their discretionary income. Our existing competitors, as well as potential new competitors, may have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, as well as better name recognition than we do. This may allow them to devote greater resources than we can to the development and promotion of their product offerings. These competitors may also engage in more extensive technology research and development, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies for their content. Additionally, increased competition could result in license fee reductions, lower margins and a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. The popularity and notoriety of adult entertainment through low-cost and free websites has resulted in additional pressure on our business. The quality and quantity of content available on these free and low-cost websites continues to improve. The content we sell through the Transactional TV segment typically has a retail price between $9.95 and $14.99 and is typically less explicit than the content offered on internet websites. As a result of the recent deterioration in economic conditions, customers may view internet delivered content as a replacement to our content based on the difference in cost, edit standard and availability of certain niche content that we do not distribute. A migration of customers to free and low-cost internet delivered content could result in a further decline in our buy rates and have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. The continued addition of new competitors to our business could have a material adverse affect on our operating performance. We face competition from established adult video producers, as well as independent companies that distribute adult entertainment, some of which is provided for free through internet websites. These competitors may include producers such as Hustler, Wicked Pictures and Vivid Entertainment. In the event that cable and/or satellite companies seek to purchase adult video content for their PPV or VOD service directly from adult video producers or other independent distributors of such content, our VOD and PPV business is likely to suffer. For example, an independent producer of adult content, which has historically distributed content only through the internet, replaced one of our PPV channels on the largest DBS platform in the U.S. during the third quarter of fiscal year 2010. Increased competition in the adult category could also lead to downward pressure on the license fees that our customers are willing to pay for our content. 13 Table of Contents We may incur costs to defend ourselves against legal claims initiated in connection with our distribution of adult-themed content. Because of the adult-oriented content that we distribute, we may be subject to obscenity or other legal claims by third parties. Our financial position and results of operations could be harmed if we were found liable for this content or if costs to defend such claims proved significant. Implementing measures to reduce our exposure to this liability may require us to take steps that would substantially limit the attractiveness of our content and/or its availability in various geographic areas, which would negatively impact our ability to generate revenue. Furthermore, our insurance may not cover or may not adequately protect us against all of these types of claims. Increased government regulation in the United States and abroad could impede our ability to deliver our content and expand our business. New laws or regulations, or the new application of existing laws could prevent us from making our content available in various jurisdictions or otherwise have a material adverse affect on our business, financial position and operating results. These new laws or regulations may relate to liability for information retrieved from or transmitted over the internet, taxation, user privacy and other matters relating to our products and services. Moreover, the application of internet related laws governing issues such as intellectual property ownership and infringement, pornography, obscenity, libel, employment, and personal privacy is still developing. Cable and DBS operators could become subject to new governmental regulations that could further restrict their ability to broadcast our programming. If new regulations make it more difficult for cable and DBS operators to broadcast our programming, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Because we have expanded our service offerings to international markets, we must now comply with diverse and evolving international regulations. New application of regulations related to our operations internationally and our ability to comply with these regulations could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operation. Changes in our effective tax rate or assessments arising from tax audits may have an adverse impact on our results. We are subject to taxation in various jurisdictions, both domestically and internationally. Significant judgment is required in the determination of our income tax benefit (expense), and this determination requires the interpretation and application of complex and sometimes uncertain tax laws and regulations. Our effective tax rate may be adversely impacted by changes in the mix of earnings between jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, and by changes in tax rules and regulations. For instance, the availability and timing of lapses in the U.S. research and development tax credit, the accounting for uncertain tax positions and the amount of our estimated tax deduction for domestic production activities may add more variability to our future effective tax rates. Additionally, we are subject to examination of our fiscal year 2008 amended tax returns, current tax returns and our determination of certain tax positions. If the Internal Revenue Service audits these returns and determines certain of our tax positions are invalid, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents If the Film Production segment produces, acquires or represents film content that is not well-received by our customers, we may not be able to recover the investments made in the film content. We have a history of impairing films in our content library and recording allowances for unrecoverable accounts for recoupable costs and producer advances. The Film Production segment's ability to continue to create or acquire film content and obtain rights to represent content that is well-received by our customers is critical to the segment's future success. If a film produced, acquired or represented by the Film Production segment does not sell as well as anticipated, we may not be able to recover our investment in the film, including, but not limited to, the cost of producing or acquiring the film, the costs associated with promoting the film, costs associated with post-production work on the film, or advances and other recoupable costs associated with representing the film. No assurance can be given that the Film Production segment's past success in generating profits from its investment in its films will continue. Antitakeover provisions in our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended, and our Rights Agreement may discourage or prevent a change of control. Our charter documents may inhibit a takeover or change in control that our shareholders may consider beneficial. Provisions in our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition of us, or making a merger or acquisition less desirable to a potential acquirer, even when the shareholders may consider the acquisition or merger favorable. For example, our Board of Directors, without further shareholder approval, may issue preferred stock that could delay or prevent a change of control as well as reduce the voting power of the holders of common stock, even with the effect of losing control to others. In addition, our Board of Directors has adopted a Rights Agreement, commonly known as a poison pill, that may delay or prevent a change of control and may also make a merger or acquisition of us less desirable. If a change in control transaction perceived by the shareholders to be in their best interest were delayed or blocked by our protective measures, the value of an investment in our securities may be negatively impacted. If we are not able to retain our key executives, it may be more difficult for us to manage our operations and our financial position and result of operations could be adversely affected. With only approximately 165 employees, our success depends greatly upon the contributions of our executive officers and our other key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in attracting and retaining these personnel. Our inability to identify, fund the investment in, and commercially exploit new technology could have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. We are engaged in a business that has experienced significant technological change over the past several years and will likely continue to experience further changes. As a result, we face all the risks inherent in businesses that are subject to rapid technological advancement, such as the possibility that a technology that we have invested in becomes obsolete, our inability to identify in a timely manner emerging technologies that may impact our business, or technology advancement that may make our offerings obsolete. In any such event, we may be required to invest significant amounts of capital in new technology. Our inability to identify, fund the investment in, and commercially exploit such new technology could have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. Our ability to implement our business plan and to achieve the results projected by management will be dependent upon management's ability to predict technological advances and implement strategies to take advantage of such changes. We may also experience impairments related to existing investments that we have made in new technology. 15 Table of Contents Negative publicity, lawsuits or boycotts by opponents of adult content could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations and discourage investors from investing in our publicly traded securities. We could become a target of negative publicity, lawsuits or boycotts by one or more advocacy groups who oppose the distribution of adult entertainment. These groups have mounted negative publicity campaigns, filed lawsuits and encouraged boycotts against companies whose businesses involve adult entertainment. The costs of defending against any such negative publicity, lawsuits or boycotts could be significant, could hurt our finances and could discourage investors from investing in our publicly traded securities. As a leading provider of adult entertainment, we cannot assure you that we may not become a target of such negative publicity in the future. Because we are involved in the adult programming business, it may be more difficult for us to raise money or attract market support for our stock. Some banking entities, investors, investment banking entities, market makers, lenders and other service providers in the investment community may decide not to provide financing to us, or to participate in our public market or other activities due to the nature of our business, which, in turn, may adversely impact the value of our stock, and our ability to attract market support or obtain financing. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights or others may claim that we are infringing on their intellectual property. Third parties could assert infringement claims against our business in the future. Claims for infringement of all types of intellectual property rights are a common source of litigation. Infringement claims can require us to modify our products, services and technologies or require us to obtain a license to permit our continued use of those rights. We may not be able to perform either of these actions in a timely manner or upon reasonable terms and conditions. Failure to do so could harm our financial position and results of operations. In addition, future litigation relating to infringement claims could result in substantial costs to us and a diversion of management resources. Adverse determinations in any litigation or proceeding could also subject us to significant liabilities and could prevent us from selling some of our products, services or technologies. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property or otherwise independently develop substantially equivalent products and services. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection could harm our business. If we experience system failures, the services we provide to our customers could be delayed or interrupted, which could harm our business reputation and result in a loss of customers. Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operations of our digital broadcast technology and related systems. Any significant interruptions could severely harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of revenue and customers. Our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, unlawful acts, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry, computer viruses, or similar events. Although we have taken steps to prevent system failures, we cannot be certain that our measures will be successful and that we will not experience service interruptions. Further, our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. 16 Table of Contents Our goodwill, other identifiable intangible assets and other long-lived assets may incur further charges and expenses. We conducted our annual goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets impairment tests as of March 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. We also performed goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets impairment tests as of December 31, 2008 due to events and circumstances within our Film Production segment that caused us to believe that it was more likely than not that the segment's goodwill was impaired. We also perform quarterly analyses on the valuation of long-lived assets including our content and distribution rights, film library, and other long-lived assets as well as the recoverability of recoupable costs and producer advances. We recognized the following continuing operations charges for asset impairments and in the case of the allowance for unrecoverable accounts, operating expenses, in our statements of operations (in thousands): Year Ended March 31, 2011 2010 2009 Goodwill $ — $ 4,856 $ 10,009 Film costs 2,193 1,207 1,062 Allowance for unrecoverable accounts 823 771 200 Content and distribution rights 241 — — Other identifiable intangible assets 37 290 — Other long-lived assets 128 — — Total charges and expenses $ 3,422 $ 7,124 $ 11,271 If our goodwill, other identifiable intangible assets or other long-lived assets' future benefit does not exceed its carrying value, or if we experience a change in estimates regarding the recoverability of our recoupable costs and producer advances, we may be required to record further charges and expenses related to the assets, which could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. The ongoing uncertainty in general economic and market conditions could increase the likelihood of additional asset charges and expenses being recorded in future periods. In addition, the determination of the fair value of goodwill, other identifiable intangible assets and long-lived assets as well as the estimated recoverability of recoupable costs and producer advances is subject to a high degree of judgment and complexity and changes in estimates could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. We may pursue acquisitions, joint ventures, new services and other strategic transactions and activities to complement or expand our business and add shareholder value that may not be successful. Our future success may depend on opportunities to acquire or form strategic partnerships with other businesses or technologies or establish new services that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. We may not be able to complete such transactions or activities and such transactions or activities, if executed, could pose significant risks and could have a negative effect on our financial position and results of operations. Any transactions or activities that we are able to identify and complete may involve a number of risks, including: •the diversion of our management's attention and resources from our existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired, combined or created business or joint venture; •the diversion of our management's attention and resources from existing business to create new services; 17 Table of Contents •possible adverse effects on our financial position and results of operations during the integration process or implementation process; and •the inability to achieve the intended objectives of the transactions or activities. In addition, we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage our newly acquired operations, employees or activities. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and this may lead to operational inefficiencies. New acquisitions, joint ventures, new services and other transactions may require the commitment of significant capital that would otherwise be directed to investments in our existing businesses or be distributed to shareholders. Commitment of this capital may cause us to defer or suspend any common stock dividends or share repurchases that we otherwise may have made. We may be unsuccessful with our initiative to expand our Transactional TV segment distribution into international markets due to our inexperience with international adult content delivery and foreign government regulations. We are expanding our Transactional TV segment services into new international markets. We have not historically operated internationally or transacted with international government regulators, competitors, cultures or consumers. As a result of our inexperience, we may be unsuccessful in executing our international growth initiatives. If we are required to make payments under our guarantee of the state of Georgia producer-for-hire production tax credits that we sold during fiscal year 2011, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. Our Film Production segment completed producer-for-hire services related to a movie production in the state of Georgia during fiscal year 2011. We realized certain transferable production tax credits in the state of Georgia associated with the production, and we sold the tax credits to a third-party resulting in a reduction in the net cost of the production of approximately $0.8 million. In connection with the sale of the tax credits, we agreed to reimburse the buyer if the tax credits are recaptured, forfeited, recovered or otherwise become invalid in the next four years. If we are required to make payments under our guarantee of the tax credits, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. We currently represent horror films that are distributed through a large video rental retailer and are owed money from the related distribution. The retailer recently filed for bankruptcy and if we do not receive payments related to the distribution, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. Our Film Production segment has distributed eight repped content horror films through a large video rental retailer (the Retailer). We incurred recoupable costs and producer advances associated with the films. The Retailer filed for bankruptcy in late September 2010 and was subsequently acquired in April 2011. If we are unable to collect amounts owed to us related to our distribution of films through the Retailer, we expect that we will be unable to recover the recoupable costs and producer advances incurred for the related films. We estimate that we would incur a maximum increase in the allowance for unrecoverable accounts of approximately $0.2 million if we were unable to collect amounts due from the distribution agreement with the retailer resulting in an adverse impact to our financial position and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We are relocating our corporate and digital broadcast facilities into a new, combined leased facility. If we are unable to execute the relocation, we experience delays in the relocation, we incur costs in excess of expectations from the relocation, or we experience other issues associated with the relocation, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. We are in the process of relocating our corporate and digital broadcast facilities to a new, combined leased facility. Our corporate facility is used as our corporate headquarters and is also used by our Direct-to-Consumer segment's web production department and our Transactional TV segment's marketing, sales, branding, promotions and conforming departments. Our digital broadcast facility is used by our Transactional TV segment for key operations activities including broadcasting, encoding and technical operations, content screening, and quality control functions. We are responsible for completing the building improvements in the new facility and furnishing the new facility, and we are also responsible for the relocation of our property, equipment, and related assets from our corporate and digital broadcast facilities to the new combined facility. We anticipate that this relocation will be completed in July 2011. If we are unable to execute the relocation, we experience delays in the relocation, we incur costs in excess of expectations from the relocation, or we experience other issues associated with the relocation, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 