ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. While our Special Committee of independent directors is currently overseeing, with the assistance of its financial and legal advisors, a review of strategic alternatives to maximize shareholder value, there can be no assurances that such a review process will result in a transaction or, if a transaction is approved by our board of directors, what will be the terms or timing of such a transaction. In April 2012, we announced that a Special Committee of independent members of our board of directors was overseeing, with the assistance of its legal and financial advisors, a review of strategic alternatives to maximize shareholder value, including the unsolicited non-binding acquisition proposals received from Manwin and Longkloof Limited (Longkloof), one of our existing shareholders, that could result in the sale of New Frontier Media, Inc. and/or its assets. No decision has been made to sell New Frontier Media and we can give no assurance that we will identify and undertake a transaction that allows our shareholders to realize an increase in the value of our stock or provide any guidance on the timing of any such action. We also can give no assurance that any potential transaction or other strategic alternative, once identified, evaluated and consummated, will provide greater value to our shareholders than that reflected in the current stock price. In addition, we can give no assurance that if a transaction is recommended by the Special Committee, approved by our board of directors, and recommended by our board of directors to our shareholders, whether such transaction will be approved by our shareholders should such approval be required. Any transaction would be dependent upon a number of factors that may be beyond our control, including, among other factors, the U.S. and global economic and market conditions, industry trends, the interest of third parties in our or their businesses, and the availability of financing to potential buyers on reasonable terms or at all. We can give no assurance that we will consummate a transaction of any kind. Unsolicited acquisition proposals and a related proxy contest may be disruptive to our business. On March 9, 2012 and March 23, 2012, we announced that we had received unsolicited acquisition proposals from Longkloof and Manwin, respectively, to acquire all of our outstanding shares of common stock (not already owned in the case of Longkloof). In addition, Longkloof increased its offer price, and as further described below, informed us of its intention to nominate four individuals to our board of directors at our 2012 annual meeting of shareholders. On July 12, 2012, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with Longkloof whereby, among other things, Longkloof withdrew its nominees to our board of directors. While our special committee of independent directors (Special Committee) is considering the acquisition proposals and other strategic alternatives, there can be no assurance that Longkloof, Manwin or another third party will not make another unsolicited acquisition proposal in the future or that we will not be required to expend considerable time and resources in connection with a proxy contest, as described below. The review and consideration of any acquisition proposal or the consideration of matters associated with a proxy contest may be a significant distraction for our management and employees and could require the expenditure of significant time and resources by us. Moreover, any of the foregoing may create uncertainty for our employees, and this uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees and to hire new talent. The foregoing may also 11 Table of Contents create uncertainty for our customers, suppliers and other business partners, which may cause them to terminate, or not to renew or enter into, arrangements with us. The distraction to our management and employees and the uncertainty arising from unsolicited acquisition proposals or a proxy contest may disrupt our business, and could result in a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. The costs associated with our current and future legal proceedings can be substantial, specific costs are unpredictable and not completely within our control, and unexpected increases in litigation costs could adversely affect our operating results. On May 2, 2012, we announced we had received notification that Longkloof, which is an entity affiliated with the publicly-traded South African conglomerate Hosken Consolidated Investments Limited (Johannesburg Stock Exchange: HCI) (Hosken) submitted a notice indicating its intention to nominate four individuals for election to our board of directors at our 2012 annual meeting of shareholders. On May 31, 2012, we filed a law suit against Hosken, its Executive Chairman, Marcel Golding, Longkloof, Mile End Limited, Sabido Investments (Pty) Ltd., Adam Rothstein, Eric Doctorow, Mahomed Khalik Ismail Sheriff, Willem Deon Nel and Barbara Wall (collectively, the Defendants) alleging, among other things, that the Defendants' notice of nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors at the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders (the Notice) is invalid because the Defendants failed to disclose certain information related to those acting in concert with Longkloof as required by the advance notice provisions contained in our Amended and Restated Bylaws. The complaint also alleged that the Defendants violated Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act, when they failed to disclose that the Defendants were operating as a "group" for the purposes of seeking control of the Company, and the true nature, extent and intent of their "group," as required by Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act. On June 8, 2012, the Defendants filed an answer and counterclaim (the Counterclaim) for declaratory judgment and injunctive relief. We and all of the individuals serving on our board of directors currently were named as defendants in the Counterclaim (the Counterclaim Defendants). The Counterclaim alleged that the Counterclaim Defendants breached their fiduciary duties to our shareholders and it also sought declaratory judgment as to whether the Defendants complied with the advance nomination provisions of our Amended and Restated Bylaws. On June 20, 2012, the Defendants filed an amended answer and counterclaim, adding two new counterclaims. The additional counterclaims alleged that the Counterclaim Defendants breached their contract with the Company's shareholders and that the individuals serving on the Special Committee tortiously interfered with the electoral rights of the Company's shareholders. The answer and Counterclaim sought, among other things, (a) a dismissal of our complaint with prejudice, (b) a declaration that the Notice is valid and effective or, in the alternative, an order that we and the individual members of our board of directors accept a corrected Notice, (c) an injunction enjoining us and our board of directors from taking any action to interfere with the ability of our shareholders to vote for the Defendants' candidates for election to our board of directors at our 2012 annual meeting of shareholders and (d) an award to Defendants of costs and disbursements of the action, including reasonable attorneys' fees. On July 12, 2012, we entered into a settlement agreement with the Defendants (the Settlement Agreement). Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, among other things, the Defendants agreed to (a) terminate their proxy contest, (b) vote their shares of stock in our Company in favor of our board of directors nominees at our 2012 annual meeting of shareholders as well as any other proposals recommended to shareholders by our board of directors at the meeting, and (c) withdraw their nominees for election to our board of directors. We agreed, among other things, that if we do not engage in a sale, merger or similar change of control transaction by December 31, 2012, Longkloof will have the right to designate one person to our board of directors. As part of the settlement agreement, all pending litigation in the U.S. District of Colorado between us and the Defendants will be dismissed by the companies without admission of any wrongdoing by either party. In addition, the Defendants agreed to certain standstill restrictions through December 31, 2012. 12 Table of Contents On March 23, 2012, Mr. Elwood M. White filed a class action complaint against us and our board of directors, purportedly on behalf of our public shareholders (the Elwood Claim). The complaint alleges that the individual members of our board of directors have breached their fiduciary duties owed to our shareholders in connection with Longkloof's initial unsolicited, conditional proposal to acquire all of the outstanding shares of our common stock that are not already beneficially owned by Longkloof. We may be obligated to reimburse the expenses and indemnify for liabilities of our directors in connection with the Elwood Claim and the Counterclaim. While we believe our director and officer insurance policy will enable us to recover a portion of any such payments, any expenses or payments that are not recovered from our insurance may harm our financial performance. The costs associated with legal proceedings are typically high, relatively unpredictable, and are not completely within our control. While we attempt to forecast and control such costs, the costs may be materially more than expected, which could adversely affect our operating results. Moreover, we may become involved in unexpected litigation, including, without limitation, litigation relating to current and subsequent attempts to takeover the Company, which would increase our aggregate litigation costs, and could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. We are not able to predict the outcome of any legal action, and an adverse decision in any legal action could significantly harm our business and financial performance. Our officers and directors have limited liability. We are obligated under our organizational documents and pursuant to indemnity agreements with our directors and all of our executive officers to indemnify them against certain liabilities incurred in connection with their services. Pursuant to the indemnity agreements, we agree, to the fullest extent permitted by the laws of the State of Colorado and as set forth in the indemnity agreements, to indemnify and advance expenses to each such officer or director in connection with actions, suits, inquiries, interviews, investigations, arbitrations or other proceedings arising out of such person's service as an officer, director and or agent of the Company, subject to the terms, conditions and limitations contained therein. These indemnity agreements, as well as the indemnification provisions in our articles of incorporation, could limit our ability and the ability of our shareholders to effectively take action against our officers and directors arising from their service to us. In addition, there could be significant harm to our business and financial performance resulting from our payment of premiums associated with insurance or payments of expenses related to a defense or settlement of claims against our directors or officers, such as the Elwood Claim. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activist shareholders. As noted above, we received nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors at the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders from the Defendants, which was withdrawn pursuant to the Settlement Agreement. In the event of a proxy contest, we may not be able to respond successfully to such contest, which would be disruptive to our business and operations. Even if we are successful, our business and operations could be adversely affected by a proxy contest involving us because: •responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist shareholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting operations and diverting the attention of our directors, management and employees, and can lead to uncertainty; •perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in the loss of business opportunities and customers, and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and customers; and •if individuals are elected to our board of directors with a specific agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely implement strategic plans and create additional value for our shareholders. 13 Table of Contents These actions could cause the market price of our shares of common stock to experience periods of volatility. The loss of any of our current major customers, or our inability to maintain or negotiate at renewal or otherwise favorable contractual terms with these customers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We have agreements with the ten largest U.S. cable MSOs and two largest U.S. DBS providers. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, the aggregate revenue we received from our major customers (customers that account for 10% or more of our consolidated net revenue during any one of the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 or 2011, namely Comcast, DISH, DirecTV and Time Warner) was approximately 50% of our total company-wide revenue. Our agreements with these operators may be terminated without penalty and with little advance notice. As a result, we are sometimes subject to renegotiation of the agreements during their stated term. If one or more of these cable MSO or DBS operators terminates or does not renew our agreements, or negotiates mid-term or agrees only to renew the agreements on terms less favorable than those of our current agreements (including removing or replacing with a competitive offering or otherwise one or more of our PPV channels or VOD offerings from their platforms), our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely effected. If the general economic environment, consumer discretionary spending or other conditions continue to be unfavorable or further deteriorate, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. We believe consumers view our content as a discretionary item rather than a necessity. Accordingly, our results of operations tend to be more sensitive to changes in macroeconomic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Other factors, including consumer confidence, employment levels, interest rates, tax rates, consumer debt levels, and fuel and energy costs, could reduce consumer spending or change consumer purchasing habits. We believe many of these factors have adversely affected consumer spending during each of our fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, and, consequently, our business and results of operations. For example, our Transactional TV segment, which is our largest segment based on revenue, experienced a decline in revenue in each of the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011. We also experienced challenging conditions within our Film Production segment that caused an operating loss during fiscal year 2011. If the general economic environment, consumer discretionary spending or other conditions continue to be unfavorable or further deteriorate, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. We rely on third party service providers to deliver our content to our customers via satellite uplink, transponder and VOD transport services. If these services are disrupted, it could cause us to lose revenue and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Our satellite uplink, transponder and VOD transport provider services are critical to our business. If our service providers fail to provide the contracted services, our programming operations would in all likelihood be suspended, resulting in a loss of substantial revenue. If our satellite uplink and transponder providers improperly manage their facilities, we could experience signal disruptions and other quality problems that, if not immediately addressed, could cause us to lose revenue. All our domestic Transactional TV segment VOD transport services are provided by TVN Entertainment Corporation (TVN). If TVN fails to provide the contracted services, our domestic Transactional TV segment VOD programming operations would in all likelihood be suspended, resulting in a materially adverse impact to our financial position and results of operations. Our continued access to satellite transponders is critical to our business. Our satellite transponder agreements expire through October 2013. Our satellite programming operations require continued 14 Table of Contents access to satellite transponders to transmit programming to our cable and DBS customers. Limitations to satellite transponder capacity could materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Access to transponders may be restricted or denied if: •we or the satellite owner is indicted or otherwise charged as a defendant in a criminal proceeding; •the Federal Communications Commission issues an order initiating a proceeding to revoke the satellite owner's authorization to operate the satellite; •the satellite owner is ordered by a court or governmental authority to deny us access to the transponder; •a governmental authority commences an investigation concerning the content of the transmissions; •we are deemed by a governmental authority to have violated any obscenity law; or •our satellite transponder provider determines that the content of our programming is harmful to its name or business. Our ability to contract with cable operators and DBS providers to carry our programming is critical to our business. We can give no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain carriage with cable operators and DBS providers in the future. If we are unable to compete effectively with other forms of adult and non-adult entertainment, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. We believe the increased availability and popularity of adult entertainment through free and low-cost websites has resulted in a decrease in our paying viewership, resulting in a decrease in our revenue. The quality and quantity of content available on these free and low-cost websites continues to improve. The content we sell through the Transactional TV segment typically has a retail price between $9.95 and $14.99 and is typically less explicit than the content offered on internet websites. As a result of the continued global economic downturn, consumers may view internet delivered content as a replacement to our content based on the difference in cost, edit standard and availability of certain niche content that we do not distribute. An increase in the migration of consumers to free and low-cost internet delivered content could result in a further decline in our buy rates and have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. We have implemented a variety of strategies to compete effectively with free and low-cost adult internet websites. These strategies may be unsuccessful and may result in an accelerated decline of our revenue. These strategies and the related negative outcomes may include, but are not limited to, those described below: •Lower priced assets—During fiscal year 2012, our customers increased the availability of lower priced (typically between $3.99 and $9.99), single and double scene assets. If the lower priced assets do not generate an increase in purchase volume sufficient to offset the lower price point, our revenue could be negatively impacted. •Subscription VOD services—We recently began offering a subscription VOD product to consumers through certain cable customer platforms. Consumers that subscribe to this product on a monthly basis receive access to one or more of our PPV channels as well as a library of VOD content. If consumers that would otherwise purchase multiple VOD movies for a higher total retail cost elect to reduce their expenditures by subscribing to this service, our revenue could be negatively impacted. •Over-the-top services—We are in the process of developing an over-the-top service that would allow subscribers to our PPV channels to also have access to a library of content through other electronic devices including mobile phone, tablet, and computer devices. If consumers that would otherwise purchase multiple movies for a higher total retail cost elect to reduce their 15 Table of Contents expenditures by subscribing to our PPV channels and viewing additional content through the over-the-top service, our revenue could be negatively impacted. We also face competition in the adult entertainment industry from other providers of adult programming, adult video/DVD rentals and sales, books and magazines aimed at adult consumers, adult-oriented telephone chat lines, premium movie channels that broadcast adult-themed content, and adult-oriented wireless services. To a lesser extent, we also face general competition from other forms of non-adult entertainment, including sporting and cultural events, other television networks, feature films, and other programming and entertainment options. Our ability to compete depends on a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: the quality and appeal of our competitors' content relative to our offerings; the strength of our competitors' brands; the technology utilized by our competitors; the effectiveness of our competitors' sales, marketing efforts and the attractiveness of their product offerings; general consumer behaviors; and preferences on how consumers choose to spend their discretionary income. Our existing competitors, as well as potential new competitors, may have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, as well as better name recognition than we do. This may allow them to devote greater resources than we can to the development and promotion of their product offerings. These competitors may also engage in more extensive technology research and development, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies for their content. Additionally, increased competition could result in license fee reductions, lower margins and a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. The continued addition of new competitors to our business could have a material adverse affect on our operating performance. We face competition from established adult video producers, as well as independent companies that distribute adult entertainment, some of which is provided for free through internet websites. These competitors may include Hustler, Wicked Pictures, Vivid Entertainment, and Manwin. In the event that cable and/or satellite companies seek to purchase adult video content for their PPV or VOD service directly from adult video producers or other independent distributors of such content, our VOD and PPV business is likely to suffer. For example, an independent producer of adult content, which has historically distributed content only through the internet, replaced one of our PPV channels on the largest DBS platform in the U.S. during fiscal year 2010. Increased competition in the adult category could also lead to downward pressure on the license fees that our customers are willing to pay for our content. Some terms of our agreements with customers could be interpreted in a manner that could adversely affect the revenue due to us under those agreements. Some of our customer agreements contain most favored nation clauses. These clauses typically provide that if we enter into an agreement with another customer that contains certain more favorable terms, we must offer those terms to those customers whose agreements contain most favored nations clauses. We have entered into a number of customer agreements with terms that differ in some respects from those contained in other agreements. These agreements are complex and if other parties conclude that we are not in compliance with most favored nation clauses, such customers may elect to renegotiate, or terminate their existing agreements and as a result, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents We may incur costs to defend ourselves against legal claims initiated in connection with our distribution of adult-themed content. Because of the adult-oriented content that we distribute, we may be subject to obscenity or other legal claims by third parties. Our financial position and results of operations could be harmed if we were found liable for this content or if costs to defend such claims proved significant. Implementing measures to reduce our exposure to this liability may require us to take steps that would substantially limit the attractiveness of our content and/or its availability in various geographic areas, which would negatively impact our ability to generate revenue. Furthermore, our insurance may not cover or may not adequately protect us against all of these types of claims. Increased government regulation in the United States and abroad could impede our ability to deliver our content and expand our business. New laws or regulations, or the new application of existing laws could prevent us from making our content available in various jurisdictions or otherwise have a material adverse affect on our business, financial position and operating results. These new laws or regulations may relate to liability for information retrieved from or transmitted over the internet, taxation, user privacy and other matters relating to our products and services. Moreover, the application of internet related laws governing issues such as intellectual property ownership and infringement, pornography, obscenity, libel, employment, and personal privacy is still developing. Cable and DBS operators could become subject to new governmental regulations that could further restrict their ability to broadcast our programming. If new regulations make it more difficult for cable and DBS operators to broadcast our programming, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Because we have expanded our service offerings to international markets, we must now comply with diverse and evolving international regulations. New application of regulations related to our operations internationally and our ability to comply with these regulations could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operation. We have disclosed a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and if we have other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, our financial position and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act. As disclosed in Item 9A, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to accounting for our provision for income taxes. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, that result in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of this material weakness, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of March 31, 2012. Management believes that it has taken actions to enhance our internal controls over financial reporting as it relates to the provision for income taxes. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weakness or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements or other errors and we could be required to restate our financial results. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, our financial position and results of operations could be harmed, the market price of our stock may decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require significant additional financial and management resources. 17 Table of Contents Changes in our effective tax rate or assessments arising from tax audits may have an adverse impact on our results. We are subject to taxation in various jurisdictions, both domestically and internationally. Significant judgment is required in the determination of our income tax benefit, and this determination requires the interpretation and application of complex and sometimes uncertain tax laws and regulations. Our effective tax rate may be adversely impacted by changes in the mix of earnings between jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, and by changes in tax rules and regulations. For instance, the availability and timing of lapses in the U.S. research and development tax credit, the accounting for uncertain tax positions, the determination of valuation allowances for our deferred tax assets, and the amount of our estimated tax deduction for domestic production activities may add more variability to our future effective tax rates. Additionally, we are subject to examination of our fiscal year 2009 amended tax returns, current tax returns and our determination of certain tax positions. The Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") is currently auditing our fiscal year 2010 returns. If the IRS's current audit or future audits of our returns results in a determination that certain of our tax positions are invalid, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If the Film Production segment produces, acquires or represents film content that is not well-received by our customers, we may not be able to recover the investments made in the film content. We have a history of impairing films in our content library and recording allowances for unrecoverable accounts for recoupable costs and producer advances. The Film Production segment's ability to continue to create or acquire film content and obtain rights to represent content that is well-received by our customers is critical to the segment's future success. If a film produced, acquired or represented by the Film Production segment does not sell as well as anticipated, we may not be able to recover our investment in the film, including, but not limited to, the cost of producing or acquiring the film, the costs associated with promoting the film, costs associated with post-production work on the film, or advances and other recoupable costs associated with representing the film. No assurance can be given that the Film Production segment's past success in generating profits from its investment in its films will continue. Antitakeover provisions in our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended, and our Rights Agreement may discourage or prevent a change of control. Our charter documents may inhibit a takeover or change in control that certain of our shareholders may consider beneficial. Provisions in our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition of us, or making a merger or acquisition less desirable to a potential acquirer, even when our shareholders may consider the acquisition or merger favorable. For example, our board of directors, without further shareholder approval, may issue preferred stock that could delay or prevent a change of control as well as reduce the voting power of the holders of our common stock, even with the effect of losing control to others. In addition, our board of directors has adopted a Rights Agreement, commonly known as a poison pill, which may delay or prevent a change of control and may also make a merger or acquisition of us less desirable. If a change in control transaction perceived by our shareholders to be in their best interest were delayed or blocked by our protective measures, the value of an investment in our securities may be negatively impacted. If we are not able to retain our key executives, it may be more difficult for us to manage our operations and our financial position and result of operations could be adversely affected. With only approximately 192 employees, our success depends greatly upon the contributions of our executive officers and our other key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers 18 Table of Contents or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in attracting and retaining these personnel. Our inability to identify, fund the investment in, and commercially exploit new technology could have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. We are engaged in a business that has experienced significant technological change over the past several years and will likely continue to experience further changes. As a result, we face all the risks inherent in businesses that are subject to rapid technological advancement, such as the possibility that a technology that we have invested in becomes obsolete, our inability to identify in a timely manner emerging technologies that may impact our business, or technology advancement that may make our offerings obsolete. In any such event, we may be required to invest significant amounts of capital in new technology. Our inability to identify, fund the investment in, and commercially exploit such new technology could have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. Our ability to implement our business plan and to achieve the results projected by management will be dependent upon management's ability to predict technological advances and implement strategies to take advantage of such changes. We may also experience impairments related to existing investments that we have made in new technology. Negative publicity, lawsuits or boycotts by opponents of adult content could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations and discourage investors from investing in our publicly traded securities. We could become a target of negative publicity, lawsuits or boycotts by one or more advocacy groups who oppose the distribution of adult entertainment. These groups have mounted negative publicity campaigns, filed lawsuits and encouraged boycotts against companies whose businesses involve adult entertainment. The costs of defending against any such negative publicity, lawsuits or boycotts could be significant, could hurt our finances and could discourage investors from investing in our publicly traded securities. As a leading provider of adult entertainment, we cannot assure you that we may not become a target of such negative publicity in the future. Because we are involved in the adult programming business, it may be more difficult for us to raise money or attract market support for our stock. Some banking entities, investors, investment banking entities, market makers, lenders and other service providers in the investment community may decide not to provide financing to us, or to participate in our public market or other activities due to the nature of our business, which, in turn, may adversely impact the value of our stock, and our ability to attract market support or obtain financing. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights or others may claim that we are infringing on their intellectual property. Third parties could assert infringement claims against our business in the future. Claims for infringement of all types of intellectual property rights are a common source of litigation. Infringement claims can require us to modify our products, services and technologies or require us to obtain a license to permit our continued use of those rights. We may not be able to perform either of these actions in a timely manner or upon reasonable terms and conditions. Failure to do so could harm our financial position and results of operations. In addition, future litigation relating to infringement claims could result in substantial costs to us and a diversion of management resources. Adverse determinations in any litigation or proceeding could also subject us to significant liabilities and could prevent us from selling some of our products, services or technologies. 19 Table of Contents Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property or otherwise independently develop substantially equivalent products and services. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection could harm our business. If we experience system failures, the services we provide to our customers could be delayed or interrupted, which could harm our business reputation and result in a loss of customers. Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operations of our digital broadcast technology and related systems. Any significant interruptions could severely harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of revenue and customers. Our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, unlawful acts, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry, computer viruses, or similar events. Although we have taken steps to prevent system failures, we cannot be certain that our measures will be successful and that we will not experience service interruptions. Further, our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. Our long-lived assets may incur further charges and expenses. We conducted annual goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets impairment tests as of March 31, 2012 and 2011. We also perform quarterly analyses on the valuation of long-lived assets including our content and distribution rights, film library, and other long-lived assets as well as the recoverability of recoupable costs and producer advances. We recognized the following continuing operations charges for asset impairments and in the case of the allowance for unrecoverable accounts, operating expenses, in our statements of operations (in thousands): Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 Goodwill $ 3,743 $ — Film costs 214 2,193 Allowance for unrecoverable accounts 606 823 Content and distribution rights 51 241 Other identifiable intangible assets — 37 Other long-lived assets 100 128 Total charges and expenses $ 4,714 $ 3,422 If our estimates of future performance as it relates to our long-lived assets change, we may be required to record further charges and expenses related to the assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. The ongoing uncertainty in general economic and market conditions could increase the likelihood of additional asset charges and expenses being recorded in future periods. In addition, the valuation analysis for long-lived assets is subject to a high degree of judgment and complexity and changes in estimates could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. We may pursue acquisitions, joint ventures, new services and other strategic transactions and activities to complement or expand our business and add shareholder value that may not be successful. Our future success may depend on opportunities to acquire or form strategic partnerships with other businesses or technologies or establish new services that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. We may not be able to complete such transactions or activities and such transactions or activities, if executed, could pose significant risks and could have a negative effect on our financial position and results of 20 Table of Contents operations. Any transactions or activities that we are able to identify and complete may involve a number of risks, including: •the diversion of our management's attention and resources from our existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired, combined or created business or joint venture; •the diversion of our management's attention and resources from existing business to create new services; •possible adverse effects on our financial position and results of operations during the integration process or implementation process; and •the inability to achieve the intended objectives of the transactions or activities. In addition, we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage our newly acquired operations, employees or activities. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and this may lead to operational inefficiencies. New acquisitions, joint ventures, new services and other transactions may require the commitment of significant capital that would otherwise be directed to investments in our existing businesses or be distributed to shareholders. Commitment of this capital may cause us to defer or suspend any common stock dividends or share repurchases that we otherwise may have made. We may be unsuccessful with our initiative to expand our Transactional TV segment distribution into international markets due to our inexperience with international adult content delivery and foreign government regulations. We continue to expand our Transactional TV segment services into new international markets. We have not historically had significant operations internationally or transacted with international government regulators, competitors, cultures or consumers. As a result of our inexperience, we may be unsuccessful in executing our international growth initiatives. We may experience a reduction in the revenue percentages we receive from our international customers. We earn revenue by receiving a percentage of the total retail purchase price paid by consumers to purchase our content on customers' VOD and PPV platforms. Domestically, the revenue percentages we receive from our customers have been reduced since our initial distribution of content, and we believe the reduction is due to the increased negotiating leverage our customers gained from the domestic consolidation of the cable and satellite industry as well as from increased competition. Internationally, the revenue percentages we receive are typically higher than the percentages we receive in the U.S. because the international cable and satellite markets are less consolidated, which allows us to negotiate higher revenue percentages. However, we have lowered our international revenue percentages with certain customers as a result of competitive pressures. For example, a customer in Latin America recently reduced the percentage of revenue we receive from them by more than 50%. It is reasonably possible that we could experience further pressure to lower our international revenue percentages consistent with our experience in the U.S. market. A reduction in the revenue percentages we receive from our international customers could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents If we are required to make payments under our guarantee of the state of Georgia producer-for-hire production tax credits that we sold during fiscal year 2011, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. Our Film Production segment completed producer-for-hire services related to a movie production in the state of Georgia during fiscal year 2011. We realized certain transferable production tax credits in the state of Georgia associated with the production, and we sold the tax credits to a third-party resulting in a reduction in the net cost of the production of approximately $0.8 million. In connection with the sale of the tax credits, we agreed to reimburse the buyer if the tax credits are recaptured, forfeited, recovered or otherwise become invalid in the next four years. If we are required to make payments under our guarantee of the tax credits, our financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 