Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. The risks discussed below are those that we believe are currently the most significant, although additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant may also impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. Technology and Product Development Our future results depend upon our ability to continue to develop new products and improve our product and process technologies. Our success in these efforts will depend upon our ability to anticipate market requirements in our product development efforts, and the acceptance and continued commercial success of the end user products. Additionally, our success depends on our ability to adapt to technological changes and to support established and emerging industry standards. In particular, the communications market is characterized by frequent new product introductions, evolving industry standards, rapid changes in product and process technologies, price competition and many new potential applications. The products that we manufacture and sell to the communications market are relatively new. To continue to be successful in this area, we must be able to consistently manufacture and supply materials that meet the demanding expectations of customers for quality, performance and reliability at competitive prices. Our timely introduction of such new products could be affected by engineering or other development program delays and problems in effectively and efficiently increasing production to meet customer needs. In addition, rapid technological change, significant pricing pressures and short lead times characterize the markets for computers and related equipment, such as printers and electronic portable hand-held devices. Because we manufacture and sell our own materials to meet the needs of these markets, our results may be negatively affected by these factors. 9 Volatility of Demand The computer and related equipment industry and the communications industry have historically been characterized by wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time-to-time, these industries have experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production over-capacity and accelerated price erosion. Our business may in the future be materially and adversely affected by such downturns. Raw Materials We from time to time must procure certain raw materials from single or limited sources that expose us to price increases and inconsistent material quality. In addition, our inability to obtain these materials in required quantities could result in significant delays or reductions in our own product shipments. In the past, we have been able to purchase sufficient quantities of raw materials to sustain production until alternative materials and production processes could be qualified with customers. However, any inability to obtain timely deliveries of materials of acceptable quantity or quality, or a significant increase in the prices of materials, could have a material adverse affect on our operating results. Foreign Manufacturing and Sales Our international manufacturing and sales involve risks, including imposition of governmental controls, currency exchange fluctuation, potential insolvency of international customers, reduced protection for intellectual property rights, the impact of recessions in foreign countries, political instability, employee selection and retention, and generally longer receivable collection periods, as well as tariffs and other trade barriers. There can be no assurance that these factors will not have an adverse effect on our future international manufacturing and sales, and consequently, on our business, operating results and financial condition. Unanticipated Events that are Beyond Our Control Our business and operating results may be affected by certain events that we cannot anticipate and that are beyond our control, such as natural disasters and national emergencies, which could disrupt production at our facilities and cause delayed deliveries, cancelled orders and possibly loss of market share. In addition, we purchase certain raw materials from single or limited sources, and, even if our facilities are not directly affected by such events, we could be affected by interruptions of production at our suppliers. Key Personnel Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers, and on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. The loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, there could be a material adverse effect on our operating results if the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. 10 Acquisitions and Divestitures Acquisitions and investments in technologies are an important component of our growth strategy. Accordingly, our future performance will be impacted by our ability to identify appropriate businesses to acquire, negotiate favorable terms for such acquisitions and then effectively and efficiently integrate such acquisitions into our existing businesses. There is no certainty that we will succeed in such endeavors. In relation to acquisitions and divestitures undertaken, it is common for us to structure the transactions to include earn-out and/or intellectual property royalty agreements that generally are tied to the performance of the underlying products or businesses acquired or divested. Accordingly, our future performance will be impacted by the respective performances of the products and/or businesses divested and the successful utilization of products and/or businesses acquired. In addition, there is no guarantee that these underlying products and/or businesses will perform as anticipated at the time the transactions were consummated. Environmental and Other Litigation We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits arising out of the conduct of our business. We are currently engaged in proceedings involving four waste disposal sites, as a participant in a group of potentially responsible parties (PRP's). Our estimation of environmental liabilities is based on an evaluation of currently available information with respect to each individual situation, including existing technology, presently enacted laws and regulations, and our past experience in addressing environmental matters. Although current regulations impose potential joint and several liability upon each named party at any superfund site, we expect our contribution for cleanup to be limited due to the number of other PRP's, and our share of the contributions of alleged waste to the sites, which we believe is de-minimis. In addition, we believe we have sufficient insurance to cover all material costs of these claims. However, there can be no assurances that our estimates will not be disputed or that any ultimate liability concerning these sites will not have a material adverse effect on us. We are also involved in certain asbestos-related product liability litigation. The level of such litigation has escalated in certain U.S. states in the past several years and involves hundreds of companies that have been named as defendants. At December 30, 2007, there were approximately 175 claims pending against us. We expect that additional claims will be brought against us in the future. Our ultimate liability with respect to such pending and unasserted claims is subject to various uncertainties, including the following: · the number of claims that are brought in the future; · the costs of defending and settling these claims; · the risk of insolvencies among our insurance carriers; · the possibility that adverse jury verdicts could require us to pay damages in amounts greater than the amounts for which we have historically settled claims; and · the risk of changes in the litigation environment of Federal and state law governing the compensation of asbestos claimants. We believe we have sufficient insurance to cover all material costs of these claims and that we have valid defenses to these claims and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters. However, there can be no assurances that the ultimate resolution of these matters will be consistent with our expectations and will not have a material adverse effect on us. Adequacy of Reserve Levels We establish reserves to cover uncollectible accounts receivable, excess or obsolete inventory, fair market value write-downs of certain assets, and various liabilities, which may not be adequate to cover future write-downs or losses. These reserves are subject to adjustment from time to time depending on actual experience and are subject to many uncertainties, including bankruptcy or other financial problems at key customers. In the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible such matters could be decided against us and require the payment of damages or other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. 11 The effects on our financial results of many of these factors depends in some cases on our ability to obtain insurance covering potential losses at reasonable rates. Changes in Tax Rates and Exposure to Additional Income Tax Liabilities We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among these different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or in tax laws, which could affect our profitability. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect profitability. 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 