Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of the Company’s securities. The risks discussed below are those that management believes are currently the most significant, although additional risks not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems less significant may also impact its business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. Technology and Product Development The Company’s future results depend upon its ability to continue to develop new products and improve its product and process technologies. The Company’s success in these efforts will depend upon the Company’s ability to anticipate market requirements in its product development efforts, the acceptance and continued commercial success of the end user products for which the Company’s products have been designed, and the Company’s ability to adapt to technological changes and to support established and emerging industry standards. In particular, the communications market is characterized by frequent new product introductions, evolving industry standards, rapid changes in product and process technologies, price competition and many new potential applications. The products that the Company manufactures and sells to the communications market are relatively new. To continue to be successful in this area, the Company must be able to consistently manufacture and supply materials that meet the demanding expectations of customers for quality, performance and reliability at competitive prices. The timely introduction by the Company of such new products could be affected by engineering or other development program delays and problems in effectively and efficiently increasing production to meet customer needs. In addition, the markets for computers and related equipment, such as printers and electronic portable hand-held devices, are characterized by rapid technological change, significant pricing pressures and short lead times. Because the Company manufactures and sells its own materials to meet the needs of these markets, the Company’s results may be negatively affected by these factors. 9 Volatility of Demand The computer and related equipment industry and the communications industry have historically been characterized by wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time-to-time, these industries have experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production over-capacity and accelerated price erosion. The Company’s business may in the future be materially and adversely affected by such downturns. Raw Materials The Company from time to time must procure certain raw materials from single or limited sources that expose the Company to price increases and inconsistent material quality. In addition, the inability of the Company to obtain these materials in required quantities could result in significant delays or reductions in its own product shipments. In the past, the Company has been able to purchase sufficient quantities of raw materials to sustain production until alternative materials and production processes could be requalified with customers. However, any inability of the Company to obtain timely deliveries of materials of acceptable quantity or quality, or a significant increase in the prices of materials, could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s operating results. Foreign Manufacturing and Sales The Company’s international manufacturing and sales involve risks, including imposition of governmental controls, currency exchange fluctuation, potential insolvency of international customers, reduced protection for intellectual property rights, the impact of recessions in foreign countries, political instability, employee selection and retention and generally longer receivable collection periods, as well as tariffs and other trade barriers. There can be no assurance that these factors will not have an adverse effect on the Company’s future international manufacturing and sales, and consequently, on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. Unanticipated Events that are Beyond the Company’s Control The Company’s business and operating results may be affected by certain events that it cannot anticipate and that are beyond its control, such as natural disasters and national emergencies, which could disrupt production at the Company’s facilities and cause delayed deliveries, cancelled orders and possibly loss of market share. In addition, the Company purchases certain raw materials from single or limited sources, and, even if its facilities are not directly affected by such events, the Company could be affected by interruptions of production at its suppliers. Key Personnel The Company’s success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of its executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly its experienced engineers, and on its ability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. The loss of services of one or more of its key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. In addition, there could be a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results if the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or if the Company is unable to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. 10 Acquisitions and Divestitures Acquisitions are a component of the Company’s growth strategy. Accordingly, the Company's future performance will be impacted by its ability to identify appropriate businesses to acquire, negotiate favorable terms for such acquisitions and then effectively and efficiently integrate such acquisitions into the Company's existing businesses. There is no certainty that the Company will succeed in such endeavors. In relation to acquisitions and divestitures undertaken, it is common for the Company to structure the transactions to include earn-out and/or intellectual property royalty agreements that generally are tied to the performance of the underlying products or businesses acquired or divested. Accordingly, the Company’s future performance will be impacted by the respective performances of the products and/or businesses divested and the successful utilization of products and/or businesses acquired. In addition, there is no guarantee that these underlying products and/or businesses will perform as anticipated at the time the transactions were consummated. Environmental and Other Litigation The Company is subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits arising out of the conduct of its business. The Company is currently engaged in proceedings involving four waste disposal sites, as a participant in a group of potentially responsible parties (PRP's). The Company’s estimation of environmental liabilities is based on an evaluation of currently available information with respect to each individual situation, including existing technology, presently enacted laws and regulations, and the Company’s past experience in addressing environmental matters. Although current regulations impose potential joint and several liability upon each named party at any superfund site, the Company expects its contribution for cleanup to be limited due to the number of other PRP's, and the Company’s share of the contributions of alleged waste to the sites, which the Company believes is de minimis. In addition, the Company believes it has sufficient insurance to cover all material costs of these claims. However, there can be no assurances that the Company’s estimates will not be disputed or that any ultimate liability concerning these sites will not have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company is also involved in certain asbestos-related product liability litigation. The level of such litigation has escalated in certain U.S. states in the past several years and involves hundreds of companies that have been named as defendants. The Company believes it has sufficient insurance to cover all material costs of these claims and that it has valid defenses to these claims and intends to defend itself vigorously in these matters. However, there can be no assurances that the ultimate resolution of these matters will be consistent with the Company’s expectations and will not have a material adverse effect on the Company. Adequacy of Reserve Levels The Company establishes reserves to cover uncollectible accounts receivable, excess or obsolete inventory, fair market value write-downs of certain assets, and various liabilities, which may not be adequate to cover future write-downs or losses. These reserves are subject to adjustment from time to time depending on actual experience and are subject to many uncertainties, including bankruptcy or other financial problems at key customers. In the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible such matters could be decided against the Company and require the payment of damages or other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. The effects on the Company’s financial results by many of these factors depends in some cases on its ability to obtain insurance covering potential losses at reasonable rates. Changes in Tax Rates and Exposure to Additional Income Tax Liabilities The Company is subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and its domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among these different jurisdictions. Its effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or in tax laws, which could affect the Company’s profitability. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on the Company’s ability to generate future taxable income. In addition, the amount of income taxes the Company pays is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect profitability. 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 