Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. The risks discussed below are those that we believe are currently the most significant, although additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant may also impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. Status of the Global Economy As widely reported, the global economy has been experiencing extreme disruptions during 2008, particularly in the last quarter, and to date in 2009. These disruptions have included severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. There can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in credit and financial markets and in confidence in economic conditions. These economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. Continuing adverse global economic conditions in our markets would likely negatively impact our business, which could result in: • Reduced demand for our products; • Increased price competition for our products; • Increased credit or other financial difficulties at our suppliers that could result in delays in their ability to supply us with necessary raw materials, components or finished products; • Increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; • Increased risk of the collectibility of cash from our customers; • Increased risk in potential reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable; and • Higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. 9 Financial and Credit Market Volatility Continued volatility in the financial markets could have a significant effect on our business as it could impact the returns generated on our investment portfolio, our ability to further diversify our business through strategic acquisitions or other alliances, and our ability to obtain and hold insurance, among other things. As our investments are impacted by market conditions, such as factors that affect interest rates and the underlying liquidity of the related investment bank through which we hold investments, any volatility in our or their ability to liquidate our investments could negatively effect our financial position. Undertaking acquisitions and divestitures is an important component of our long-term growth strategy. The volatility of the credit markets can significantly affect us from an acquisition stand-point, through access to our line of credit and other forms of financing, and from a divestiture stand-point, through the availability of funds to the potential acquiring party. Technology and Product Development Our future results depend upon our ability to continue to develop new products and improve our product and process technologies. Our success in these efforts will depend upon our ability to anticipate market requirements in our product development efforts, and the acceptance and continued commercial success of the end user products. Additionally, our success depends on our ability to adapt to technological changes and to support established and emerging industry standards. In particular, the communications market is characterized by frequent new product introductions, evolving industry standards, rapid changes in product and process technologies, price competition and many new potential applications. The products that we manufacture and sell to the communications market are relatively new. To continue to be successful in this area, we must be able to consistently manufacture and supply materials that meet the demanding expectations of customers for quality, performance and reliability at competitive prices. Our timely introduction of such new products could be affected by engineering or other development program delays and problems in effectively and efficiently increasing production to meet customer needs. In addition, rapid technological change, significant pricing pressures and short lead times characterize the markets for computers and related equipment, such as printers and electronic portable hand-held devices. Because we manufacture and sell our own materials to meet the needs of these markets, our results may be negatively affected by these factors. Volatility of Demand The consumer electronics industry and the communications industry have historically been characterized by wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time-to-time, these industries have experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles and declines in general economic conditions, as we are currently experiencing. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production over-capacity and accelerated price erosion. Our business may in the future be materially and adversely affected by such downturns. Raw Materials We from time to time must procure certain raw materials from single or limited sources that expose us to price increases and inconsistent material quality. In addition, our inability to obtain these materials in required quantities could result in significant delays or reductions in our own product shipments. In the past, we have been able to purchase sufficient quantities of raw materials to sustain production until alternative materials and production processes could be qualified with customers. However, any inability to obtain timely deliveries of materials of acceptable quantity or quality, or a significant increase in the prices of materials, could have a material adverse affect on our operating results. Foreign Manufacturing and Sales Our international manufacturing and sales involve risks, including imposition of governmental controls, currency exchange fluctuation, potential insolvency of international customers, reduced protection for intellectual property rights, the impact of recessions in foreign countries (as is currently being experienced), political instability, employee selection and retention, and generally longer receivable collection periods, as well as tariffs and other trade barriers. There can be no assurance that these factors will not have an adverse effect on our future international manufacturing and sales, and consequently, on our business, operating results and financial condition. 10 Unanticipated Events that are Beyond Our Control Our business and operating results may be affected by certain events that we cannot anticipate and that are beyond our control, such as natural disasters and national emergencies, which could disrupt production at our facilities and cause delayed deliveries, cancelled orders and possibly loss of market share. In addition, we purchase certain raw materials from single or limited sources, and, even if our facilities are not directly affected by such events, we could be affected by interruptions of production at our suppliers. Key Personnel Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers, and on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. The loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, there could be a material adverse effect on our operating results if the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. Acquisitions and Divestitures Acquisitions and investments in technologies are an important component of our growth strategy. Accordingly, our future performance will be impacted by our ability to identify appropriate businesses to acquire, negotiate favorable terms for such acquisitions and then effectively and efficiently integrate such acquisitions into Rogers. There is no certainty that we will succeed in such endeavors. Environmental and Other Litigation We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits arising out of the conduct of our business. We are currently engaged in proceedings involving three waste disposal sites, as a participant in a group of potentially responsible parties (PRP's). Our estimation of environmental liabilities is based on an evaluation of currently available information with respect to each individual situation, including existing technology, presently enacted laws and regulations, and our past experience in addressing environmental matters. Although current regulations impose potential joint and several liability upon each named party at any superfund site, we expect our contribution for cleanup to be limited due to the number of other PRP's, and our share of the contributions of alleged waste to the sites, which we believe is de-minimis. In addition, we believe we have sufficient insurance to cover all material costs of these claims. However, there can be no assurances that our estimates will not be disputed or that any ultimate liability concerning these sites will not have a material adverse effect on us. We are also involved in certain asbestos-related product liability litigation. The level of such litigation has escalated in certain U.S. states in the recent years and involves hundreds of companies that have been named as defendants. At December 31, 2008, there were approximately 163 claims pending against us. We expect that additional claims will be brought against us in the future. Our ultimate liability with respect to such pending and unasserted claims is subject to various uncertainties, including the following: · the number of claims that are brought in the future; · the costs of defending and settling these claims; · the risk of insolvencies among our insurance carriers; · the possibility that adverse jury verdicts could require us to pay damages in amounts greater than the amounts for which we have historically settled claims; and · the risk of changes in the litigation environment of Federal and state law governing the compensation of asbestos claimants. We believe we have sufficient insurance to cover all material costs of these claims and that we have valid defenses to these claims and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters. However, there can be no assurances that the ultimate resolution of these matters will be consistent with our expectations and will not have a material adverse effect on us. 11 Adequacy of Reserve Levels We establish reserves to cover uncollectible accounts receivable, excess or obsolete inventory, fair market value write-downs of certain assets, and various liabilities, which may not be adequate to cover future write-downs or losses. These reserves are subject to adjustment from time to time depending on actual experience and are subject to many uncertainties, including bankruptcy or other financial problems at key customers. In the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible such matters could be decided against us and require the payment of damages or other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. The effects on our financial results of many of these factors depend in some cases on our ability to obtain insurance covering potential losses at reasonable rates. Changes in Tax Rates and Exposure to Additional Income Tax Liabilities We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among these different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or in tax laws, which could affect our profitability. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect profitability. Expense Reduction and Cost Containment Goals Over the past few years, we have implemented certain restructuring plans in order to better align our cost structure with our anticipated revenue stream, while improving our results of operations and cash flows, including those related to our Durel and Flexible Circuit Material operating segments. However, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of these restructuring plans and to the extent that we do not reach our objectives, we may be required to implement further restructuring plans, which may lead us to incur material future charges. Further, our restructuring plans could result in a potential adverse effect on employee capabilities that could harm our efficiency and our ability to act quickly and effectively in the rapidly changing technology markets in which we sell our products. Ability to access capital markets In recent months, the volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets have reached unprecedented levels. If these conditions continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience a material adverse effect on our ability to borrow money, including under our existing credit facilities, or have access to capital, if needed. Although our lender has made commitments to make funds available to us in a timely fashion, our lender may be unable or unwilling to lend money. In addition, if we determine that it is appropriate or necessary to raise capital in the future, the future cost of raising funds through the debt or equity markets may be more expensive or those markets may be unavailable. If we were unable to raise funds through debt or equity markets, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. International nature of our business Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes could harm our future sales, expenses and financial condition. Our future sales, costs and expenses could be adversely affected by a variety of international factors, including: · changes in a country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; · longer accounts receivable cycles; · trade protection measures; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · differing technology standards and/or customer requirements; and · import or export licensing requirements, which could affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components or lead to penalties or restrictions. 12 For fiscal 2008, sales of our products to foreign customers accounted for approximately 72% of our net sales. As of December 31, 2008, we employed approximately 1,100 employees overseas. In addition, a portion of our product and component manufacturing, along with key suppliers, is located outside of the United States, and also could be disrupted by some of the international factors described above. Our stock price is volatile The market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely from the beginning of fiscal year 2007 through the end of fiscal year 2008 with our stock price experiencing a high of $61.79 per share and a low of $29.14 per share. Consequently, the current market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices, and we may be unable to sustain or increase the value of an investment in our common stock. Factors affecting our stock price may include: · variations in operating results from quarter to quarter; · changes in earnings estimates by analysts or our failure to meet analysts’ expectations; · changes in the market price per share of our public company customers; · market conditions in the industries upon which we depend; · general economic conditions; · political changes, hostilities or natural disasters such as hurricanes and floods; and · low trading volume of our stock. In addition, the stock market has recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations and these market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our stock. Auction Rate Securities No active market currently exists for the auction rate securities (ARS) we hold and as a result we may not be able to liquidate them at the current valuation, if at all. As a result, we have written down the cost basis of these securities to their estimated fair value and determined that the decline in fair value is considered not other-than-temporary in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Additional valuation allowances may have to be taken again in the future under certain scenarios based on market conditions at a given time. We currently hold $50.0 million of par value ARS. The estimated fair value of these securities at December 31, 2008, was $43.4 million and they are rated as investment grade securities. The contractual maturities of these securities range from 5 to 38 years and are comprised predominately of student loan and municipality securities. Prior to the first quarter of 2008, these securities provided short-term liquidity through a Dutch auction process that reset the applicable interest rate at pre-determined calendar intervals, generally every 28 to 35 days. This mechanism allowed existing investors to either retain or liquidate their holdings by selling such securities at par. We have the intent and ability to hold these securities for an extended period of time and continue to receive interest income when due. Given the continued challenges in the financial markets and the prolonged credit crisis, we cannot reasonably predict when or whether market conditions will change resulting in the recovery of fair value on these auction rate securities. It is also possible that a secondary market for auction rate securities may emerge in which securities similar to our own would trade at prices below our currently recorded fair values. Under such a scenario, or if other events arise that impact the fair value of the securities, we may have to recognize other-than temporary impairment charges, which would adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 13 