Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our stock. The risks discussed below are those that we believe are currently the most significant, although additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant may also impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. The global credit and financial markets, although somewhat stabilized, could experience additional disruption, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Conditions in the global credit and financial markets continue to be uncertain and there can be no assurances that there will not be future deterioration in credit and financial markets and in confidence in overall economic conditions. These economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. Adverse global economic conditions in our markets will likely negatively impact our business, which could result in the following conditions, among others: • Reduced demand for our products; • Increased price competition for our products; • Increased credit or other financial difficulties at our suppliers that could result in delays in their ability to supply us with necessary raw materials, components or finished products; • Increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; • Increased risk of the collectability of cash from our customers; • Increased risk in potential reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable; and • Higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. Continued or additional volatility in the global credit and financial markets could also have a significant impact on our ability to generate returns on our investment portfolio, our ability to obtain financing, and consequently, our ability to further diversify our business through strategic acquisitions or other alliances (an important component of our long-term growth strategy), and our ability to obtain and hold insurance, among other things. As our investments and certain other assets are impacted by market conditions, such as factors that affect interest rates and the underlying liquidity of the related investment banks through which we hold investments, any volatility in our or their ability to liquidate our investments could negatively affect our financial position. 11 Our future revenue, gross margins, operating results and net income are difficult to predict and may materially fluctuate. Our future revenue, gross margins, operating results and net income are difficult to predict and may be materially affected by a number of factors, including: · the effects of adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and international markets; · changes in customer demand for our products and for end products that incorporate our materials; · loss of or significant declines in sales to key customers; · the timing of new product announcements or introductions by us, our customers, or our competitors; · competitive pricing pressures; · fluctuations in manufacturing yields, adequate availability of copper and other raw materials, and manufacturing, assembly and test capacity; · significant declines in backlog; · the timing, delay or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability to manage inventory; · changes in geographic, product, or customer mix; · our ability to utilize our manufacturing facilities at efficient levels; · potential significant litigation-related costs; · the difficulties inherent in forecasting future operating expense levels, including with respect to costs associated with labor, utilities, transportation and raw materials; · the costs related to compliance with increasing worldwide regulations; · changes in our effective tax rates in the U.S., China or worldwide; and · the effects of public health emergencies, natural disasters, security risks, terrorist activities, international conflicts and other events beyond our control. In addition, the consumer electronics and communications industries historically have been characterized by wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time to time, these industries have experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production over-capacity and accelerated price erosion. Our business is also subject to rapid technological changes and there can be no assurance, depending on the mix of future business, that products stocked in our inventory will not be rendered obsolete before we ship them. As a result of this and other factors, there can be no assurance that we will not experience material fluctuations in future revenue, gross margins, operating results and net income on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition, if our revenue, gross margins, operating results and net income do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock may decline. Our future success depends upon our ability to continue to innovate, improve our products, develop and market new products, and identify and enter new markets. Our future success depends in part upon our ability to continue to develop new products and improve our product and process technologies. Our success in these efforts will be determined by our ability to anticipate market requirements in our product development efforts, and the acceptance and continued commercial success of the end user’s products. Additionally, our success depends upon our ability to adapt to technological changes and to support established and emerging industry standards. In particular, the portable communications market is characterized by frequent new product introductions, evolving industry standards, rapid changes in product and process technologies, price competition and many new potential applications. To continue to be successful in this area, we must be able to consistently develop, produce and supply materials that meet the demanding expectations of customers for quality, performance and reliability at competitive prices. Our timely introduction of new products to meet these needs could be affected by engineering or other development program delays and problems in effectively and efficiently increasing production to meet customer needs. In addition, rapid technological change, significant pricing pressures and short lead times characterize the markets for portable communications and other electronic devices. Because we manufacture and sell our own materials to meet the needs of these markets, our results may be negatively affected by these factors. 12 We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We primarily rely on patents, copyrights, and trademarks, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies and processes, it is possible that competitors and other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our technologies, products, and processes. Moreover, the laws of foreign countries in which we design, manufacture, market and sell our products may afford little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. There can be no assurances that the claims allowed in our issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, any of our existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. As such, any rights under these patents may not provide us with meaningful protection. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. We try to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products or technology without authorization. Also, former employees may seek employment with our business partners, customers or competitors, and there can be no assurance that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. We are exposed to business, economic, political, legal and other risks through our significant worldwide operations. We have significant foreign operations, particularly in China and Europe, which exposes us to business, political and economic changes that could negatively impact our future sales, expenses and financial condition. For fiscal 2011, sales of our products to foreign customers accounted for approximately 80.7% of our net sales. As of December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 1,700 employees overseas. Although we engage in hedging transactions to help reduce our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations, there can be no assurance that our competitive position will not be adversely affected by changes in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against other currencies. Potential interest rate increases, as well as high energy and other consumer costs, could have an adverse impact on industrial and consumer spending patterns and could adversely impact demand for our products and the products our materials are in. While a substantial portion of our cash is generated outside the U.S., we require a significant amount of cash in the U.S. to address our operating requirements, including the funding of acquisitions, and debt and interest payments, among other things. If we are unable to address our U.S. cash requirements through our U.S. operations cash flows, by efficient and timely repatriations of overseas cash, through borrowings under our current credit facility or from other sources of cash obtained at an acceptable cost, our business strategies and operating results could be adversely affected. We are also subject to the risks associated with ongoing uncertainties and political and economic instability in many countries around the world, as well as economic disruption from acts of terrorism and the response to them by the U.S. and its allies. Other business risks associated with international operations include, but are not limited to, increased managerial complexities; air transportation disruptions; expropriation; currency controls; currency exchange rate fluctuations; additional costs related to foreign taxes, tariffs and freight rate increases; exposure to different business practices and differing legal standards, particularly with respect to price protection; intellectual property and environmental compliance; trade and travel restrictions; pandemics; import and export license requirements and restrictions; difficulties in staffing and managing worldwide operations; longer account receivable cycles and collections; and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. We expect our business to continue to have a strong presence in Asia, particularly in China, in the foreseeable future, as the Asian marketplace is a key factor to our current and future success. Our operations in these markets may be adversely affected by China’s continuously evolving laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, currency controls, environmental regulations, and intellectual property rights and enforcement of those rights. Enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be inconsistent, as there is a high degree of fragmentation among regulatory authorities resulting in uncertainties as to which authorities have jurisdiction over particular parties or transactions. In addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies, or U.S. and China relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, potentially resulting in increased taxation, restrictions on imports, import duties or currency revaluations, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operational results. 13 Availability of and changes in the costs and quality of certain key raw materials could negatively impact our profit margins and our ability to produce products in a timely manner to required specifications. We use certain key raw materials in our manufacturing processes, including, but not limited to, copper and certain types of resins, that could be subject to price volatility due to availability, demand and global monetary policies. In addition, these materials are often sourced from single or limited sources that expose us to price increases that further expose us to the risk of not being able to procure enough material to meet our customer demands, as well as inconsistent material quality. Any inability to obtain timely deliveries of materials of acceptable quantity or quality, or a significant increase in the prices of materials, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy could be adversely affected. Our continued success depends to a significant extent upon the recruitment, retention and effective succession of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers. The loss of the services of one or more of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, there could be a material adverse effect on our operating results if the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. Implementation of our acquisition strategy may not be successful, which could affect our ability to increase our revenues or our profitability. A key element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisition of businesses, assets, products, or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. Accordingly, our future performance will be impacted by our ability to identify appropriate businesses and technologies to acquire, as well as effectively and efficiently integrating such acquisitions into Rogers. We may not succeed in such endeavors for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, the inability to identify businesses that have the technology or resources we need and, if we find such businesses, the possibility that we may not be able to purchase or license the technology or resources on commercially favorable terms or at all. In 2011, we purchased Curamik, an acquisition that required a significant level of investment. This included borrowing funds through the use of our credit facility, which created long-term debt and made us subject to the various covenant requirements contained in the related bank agreement. Certain risks are inherent in any acquisition, such as the risk that the acquisition may not be accretive to our business or perform to our expectations going forward and that revenue opportunities, cost savings and other anticipated synergies will not be fully realized. In addition, there are more particular risks relating to Curamik itself, including, but not limited to, the following: a decline in sales to certain key customers; the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and the impact of that cyclicality on sales and profits; the strict nature of labor laws in Germany and the impact on our ability to manage costs and react to downturns in the market; and increased exposure to significant fluctuations in raw material and commodity costs, particularly copper, which is a key component in Curamik’s manufacturing process. We also continually review our current business and product portfolio to attempt to maximize our business performance. We may in the future deem it appropriate to pursue the divestiture of product lines or businesses as conditions dictate. These strategic decisions could have a potential negative impact on our business. 14 We are involved with certain litigation and disputes and may become involved in future litigation or other disputes all of which could give rise to potential contingencies, such as environmental, product liability and/or warranty claims, that could be costly to bring or defend and could result in a significant negative impact to our business. We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits arising out of the conduct of our business which could ultimately have a material adverse impact on our business, including our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Such claims could result from environmental issues, product liability claims and general commercial litigation, among others. Our products are typically highly specialized, proprietary-type materials that must meet very stringent performance requirements by our customers. We invest significant resources in the testing of our products to meet our product specifications. However, if any of our materials or products contain defects, we may be required to incur additional development and remediation costs. We are also subject to a variety of environmental issues, particularly considering the age of our business and the range of geographic areas and manufacturing processes we have been involved with over the course of time. We are currently engaged in proceedings involving 2 separate superfund sites, as a participant in a group of potentially responsible parties (PRPs) and in the remediation of certain polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) contamination at our Woodstock, Connecticut manufacturing facility. Our estimation of the environmental liability is based on an evaluation of currently available information with respect to the situation, including existing technology, presently enacted laws and regulations, and our past experience in addressing environmental matters. Although current regulations impose potential joint and several liability upon each named party at any superfund site, we expect our contribution for cleanup to be limited due to the number of other PRPs, and our share of the alleged contributions of waste to the sites, which we believe is de minimis. In addition, we believe we have sufficient insurance to cover all material costs of these claims. However, there can be no assurances that our estimates will not be disputed or that any ultimate liability concerning this site will not have a material adverse effect on us. We are also involved in certain asbestos-related product liability litigation. The level of such litigation has escalated in certain U.S. states in recent years and involves hundreds of companies that have been named as defendants. At December 31, 2011, there were 242 claims pending against us. We expect that additional claims will be brought against us in the future. Our ultimate liability with respect to such pending and unasserted claims is subject to various uncertainties, including the following: · the number of claims that are brought in the future; · the costs of defending and settling these claims; · the risk of insolvencies among our insurance carriers; · the possibility that adverse jury verdicts could require us to pay damages in amounts greater than the amounts for which we have historically settled claims; and · the risk of changes in the litigation environment of Federal and state law governing the compensation of asbestos claimants. We believe we have sufficient insurance to cover all material costs related to these claims and that we have valid defenses to the majority of these claims and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters. However, there can be no assurances that the ultimate resolution of these matters will be consistent with our expectations and will not have a material adverse effect on us. For further information, see Item 3 Legal Proceedings and Note 14 in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K. We are subject to increasingly strict environmental regulations, which could increase our expense and affect our operating results. Our business is subject to increasingly strict environmental regulations that control and restrict the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage and disposal of certain chemicals, gases and other substances used or produced in our various manufacturing processes. Public attention to environmental controls has continued to increase and changes in environmental regulations may require us to invest in potentially costly pollution control equipment or alter the way our products are made. In addition, we use hazardous and regulated materials that subject us to risks for strict liability for damages caused by accidental releases, regardless of fault. Any failure to control such materials adequately or to comply with regulatory restrictions or contractual obligations could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results. 15 New climate change regulations could require us to change our manufacturing processes or obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be harder to procure for our manufacturing operations. In addition, new restrictions on carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gas emissions could result in additional costs for us. Greenhouse gas legislation has been introduced in the U.S. legislature and we expect increased worldwide regulatory activity in the future. The cost of complying, or of failing to comply, with these and other climate change and emissions regulations could have an adverse effect on our business plans and results of operations. Our current reserve levels may not be adequate to cover potential exposures. We establish reserves to cover various exposures, including uncollectible accounts receivable, excess or obsolete inventory, fair market value write-downs of certain assets, and various liabilities. However, these reserves may not be adequate to cover future impairments or losses. These reserves are subject to analysis and adjustment on a regular basis and are based on management’s best estimates based on the facts and circumstances known at the time. Such reserves are subject to many uncertainties, including the assumptions used to value certain assets, forward looking forecasted financial information, and bankruptcy or financial problems at key customers, among others. In the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable or reasonably estimable, facts and circumstances could change related to such matters which would result in such matters being decided against us and require the payment of damages or other expenditures in amounts that are not presently accrued. The effects on our financial results of many of these factors depend in some cases on our ability to obtain insurance covering potential losses. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, we may not be able to service our debt obligations, including making payments on our outstanding line of credit. In the first quarter of 2011, we borrowed $145.0 million against our existing line of credit to finance our strategic acquisition of Curamik and had $122.5 million outstanding at December 31, 2011. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness when due depends upon the cash flows generated from our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to, among other things, seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; sell selected assets; reduce or delay planned capital expenditures; reduce or delay planned operating expenditures; or redeem our auction rate securities at a level below their par value. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt, which could negatively impact our financial results. In addition, any such financing, refinancing, or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms. Restrictions in our credit facility may limit our activities. Our current credit facility imposes, and future debt instruments to which we may become subject, may impose, restrictions that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our Company, including undertaking certain transactions, creating certain credit lines on our assets and incurring certain subsidiary indebtedness, among others. Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on the cash flows generated from our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology, and changes in the level of competition. In addition, our credit facility requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. If we breach any of the covenants under our credit facility and we do not obtain appropriate waivers, our operations may be negatively impacted by the consequences of such breaches, including the declaration of any outstanding indebtedness to be immediately due and payable. Changes in tax rates and exposure may lead to additional income tax liabilities. We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among these different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, increases in tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or in tax laws, each of which could adversely affect our profitability. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could adversely affect profitability. 16 The requirements to evaluate goodwill and non-amortizable assets for impairment may result in a write-off of all or a portion of our recorded amounts, which would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. We are required to perform an impairment review of both goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets on an annual basis, or when facts and circumstances around such assets change that indicate the potential for an impairment to have occurred. In 2011, we did not have an impairment of our goodwill or non-amortizable intangible assets; however there can be no assurances that future impairments will not occur. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely from the beginning of fiscal year 2009 through the end of fiscal year 2011, with our stock price reaching a high of $52.44 per share and a low of $14.60 per share during that time period. Consequently, the current market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices, and we may be unable to sustain or increase the value of an investment in our common stock. Factors affecting our stock price may include, but are not limited to, the following: · changes in the long-term outlook for our Company in the markets we serve; · variations in operating results from quarter to quarter; · changes in earnings estimates by analysts or our failure to meet analysts’ expectations; · changes in the market value of publicly traded customers or suppliers, which could decrease their demand for our products; · market conditions in the industries and markets in which we participate; · general economic conditions; · political changes, hostilities or natural disasters such as hurricanes and floods; and · low trading volume of our common stock. In addition, the New York Stock Exchange has recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations and continued market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our stock. We may not be able to redeem our existing auction rate security portfolio in the near term, thereby impacting our cash available to support our business activities. An active market does not currently exist for the auction rate securities (ARS) we hold and, as a result, we may not be able to liquidate them at the current valuation prior to final maturity. We have written down the cost basis of these securities to their estimated fair value and determined that the decline in fair value is considered other-than-temporary, with the portion of the impairment related to credit loss being recognized in earnings and the remainder of the decline recorded in other comprehensive income, per the relevant accounting guidance. Additional valuation allowances may have to be taken in the future under certain scenarios based on market conditions at such time, including, but not limited to, downgrades in the assets underlying the ARS. We currently hold $29.5 million of par value ARS. The estimated fair value of these securities at December 31, 2011, was $26.0 million, of which 85% are rated as investment grade securities. The contractual maturities of these securities range from 21 to 36 years and are comprised predominately of student loan and municipal securities. Prior to the first quarter of 2008, these securities provided short-term liquidity through a Dutch auction process that reset the applicable interest rate at pre-determined calendar intervals, approximately every 28 to 35 days. This mechanism allowed existing investors to either retain or liquidate their holdings by selling such securities at par. In the first quarter of 2008, the markets in which these securities traded became illiquid, resulting in us not being able to redeem such securities through the auction process. Currently, we have the intent and ability to hold these securities for an extended period of time and continue to receive interest income on these securities, albeit at de minimis levels. Given the continued challenges in the financial markets and the prolonged credit crisis, we cannot reasonably predict when these securities will liquidate or whether market conditions will change resulting in the recovery of fair value on these auction rate securities. There is a secondary market for auction rate securities that has emerged in which securities similar to our own would trade at prices below our currently recorded fair values. Under such a scenario, or if other events arise that impact the fair value of these securities, we may have to recognize other-than-temporary impairment charges, which would adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. Employee benefit cost increases could reduce our profitability. Our profitability is affected by employee benefit costs, particularly medical, pension and other employee benefits. In recent years, employee medical costs have increased due to factors such as the increase in health care costs in the U.S. These factors will continue to put pressure on our business and financial performance, as employee benefit costs continue to escalate. Although we actively seek to control increases in employee benefit costs and encourage employees to maintain healthy lifestyles to reduce future potential medical costs, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting future cost increases. Continued employee benefit cost increases could have an adverse affect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We also sponsor a limited number of defined benefit plans that cover certain employees. Our costs of providing defined benefit plans have risen dramatically over the past few years, and are dependent upon a number of factors and assumptions that drive our projected liabilities and annual expenses, such as discount rates, the actual and projected rates of return on the plans’ assets, governmental regulation, global equity prices, portfolio composition and our required and/or voluntary contributions to the plans. Changes in assumptions, the ability to grow our pension investments over time to increase the value of the plans’ assets, and other factors relating to worldwide and domestic economic trends and financial market conditions, could all have a negative impact on our pension plans, which could result in an increase in our pension liabilities, a reduction in the funded status of our plan, increases in annual expense recognized related to the plans, and requirements to increase funding for some or all of our defined benefit plans, among other factors, all of which could negatively impact our operations. 17 Our business could be negatively affected by unanticipated events that are beyond our control. Our business and operating results may be affected by certain events that we cannot anticipate and that are beyond our control, such as natural disasters and national emergencies, which could disrupt production at our facilities, or at the facilities of our customers and suppliers, and cause delayed deliveries, cancelled orders and possibly loss of market share. From time to time, we purchase certain raw materials from single or limited sources, and, even if our facilities are not directly affected by such events, we could be affected by interruptions of production at our suppliers. In addition, our customers could be affected by certain events, which could decrease demand for our products. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 