Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Future Results This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our business, operating results, financial performance, and share price may be materially adversely affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to the following risk factors, any one of which could cause actual results to vary materially from anticipated results or from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us in this annual report on Form 10-K or in other reports, press releases or other statements issued from time to time. Additional factors that may cause such a difference are set forth elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. We have accumulated significant losses and may not be able to generate significant revenue or any net income in the future, which would negatively impact our ability to run our business. We have accumulated net losses of approximately $281.9 million from our inception through December 31, 2006. We have continued to accumulate losses after December 31, 2006, to date and we may be unable to generate significant revenue or net income in the future. We have funded our operations primarily through the issuance of equity and debt securities to investors and may not be able to generate a positive cash flow in the future. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, we will need to seek additional funds through the issuance of additional equity or debt securities or other sources of financing. We may not be able to secure such additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. Any additional financings will likely cause substantial dilution to existing stockholders. If we are unable to obtain necessary additional financing, we may be required to reduce the scope of, or cease, our operations. We have not generated any significant sales of our products within the competitive commercial market, nor have we demonstrated sales techniques or promotional activities that have proven to be successful on a consistent basis, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business performance or our future prospects. We are in an emerging, complex and competitive commercial market for digital commerce and communications security solutions. Potential customers in our target markets are becoming increasingly aware of the need for security products and services in the digital economy to conduct their business. Historically, only enterprises that had substantial resources developed or purchased security solutions for delivery of digital content over the Internet or through other means. Also, there is a perception that security in delivering digital content is costly and difficult to implement. Therefore, we will not succeed unless we can educate our target markets about 8 Table of Contents the need for security in delivering digital content and convince potential customers of our ability to provide this security in a cost-effective and easy-to-use manner. Even if we convince our target markets about the importance of and need for such security, there can be no assurance that it will result in the sale of our products. We may be unable to establish sales and marketing operations at levels necessary for us to grow this portion of our business, especially if we are unsuccessful at selling our products into vertical markets. We may not be able to support the promotional programs required by selling simultaneously into several markets. If we are unable to develop an efficient sales system, or if our products or components do not achieve wide market acceptance, then our operating results will suffer and our earnings per share will be adversely affected. A significant number of shares of our common stock are or will be eligible for sale in the open market, which could reduce the market price for our common stock and make it difficult for us to raise capital. As of March 27, 2007, 122,891,503 shares of our common stock were outstanding. In addition, there were a total of 36,364,758 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise or conversion of outstanding options, warrants, and convertible debt. These convertible securities to acquire shares of common stock are held by our employees and certain other persons at various exercise or conversion prices, 926,471 of which have exercise or conversion prices below the market price for our common stock of $0.09 as of March 27, 2007. Options to acquire 8,151,998 shares of our common stock were outstanding as of March 27, 2007, and our existing stock incentive plan had 3,168,830 shares available for future issuance as of that date. We may, in our discretion, elect to pay the monthly redemption amounts and interest due on the debentures we issued in June 2006 in cash or in shares of our common stock. To date, we have elected to pay all redemption amounts and interest due in shares of our common stock and, accordingly, we have issued 33,983,297 shares of our common stock for the December 2006, January 2007, February 2007, and March 2007 redemption and interest payments and the April 2006 pre-redemption issuance. The issuance of large numbers of additional shares of our common stock to pay the principal and interest of our convertible debt or upon the exercise or conversion of outstanding options, warrants or convertible debt would cause substantial dilution to existing stockholders and could decrease the market price of our common stock due to the sale of a large number of shares of common stock in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the perception of possible sales, could also impair our ability to raise capital in the future. If we do not generate significant revenue from our participation in large government security initiatives or increase the level of our participation in these initiatives, our business performance and future prospects may suffer. We play various roles in certain large government security initiatives, including pursuing various opportunities in connection with the Transportation Security Administration’s (TSA) Registered Traveler program. However, our Registered Traveler business has never generated revenue. Our primary focus in the Registered Traveler business has been the development of a solution designed to meet the needs of the Registered Traveler program through the FLO Alliance, a consortium of companies with expertise in credentialing, security, access control, travel services, political lobbying, and corporate and consumer marketing. Although Huntsville International Airport recently agreed to work exclusively with the FLO Alliance to develop and implement a Registered Traveler program, the FLO Alliance has not entered into any agreement to be a Registered Traveler service provider and its solution has not been implemented in any airport to date. In addition, we have participated on the TSA’s Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC) program, where our credentialing solutions accounted for a significant portion of the technology deployment for the prototype or limited deployment phase of the initiative. We have invested a substantial amount of time and resources in our efforts to participate in these and other government security initiatives, but we have not generated significant revenue from our participation in these security initiatives to date. If we are not able to generate significant revenue from our participation in these or other government programs, or if we incur substantial additional 9 Table of Contents expenses related to government programs before we earn associated revenue, we may not have adequate resources to continue to operate or to compete effectively in the government or the commercial marketplace. Our Registered Traveler business will be highly dependent on the FLO Alliance and could be materially harmed if we cannot negotiate definitive agreements with our alliance partners or if our relationships with our alliance partners were to weaken. Our Registered Traveler business depends on the other members of the FLO Alliance for many elements of our Registered Traveler solution. Our arrangements and relationships with the members of the FLO Alliance will be critical to our ability to provide a Registered Traveler solution. The FLO Alliance is a consortium of companies with experience in credentialing, security, access control, travel services, political lobbying, and corporate and consumer marketing. Our agreements with the members of the FLO Alliance currently consist of letters of understanding to enter into discussions regarding the obligations of the respective parties and financial terms of the relationships, but the letters of understanding do not specifically obligate any of the companies in the FLO Alliance to concrete obligations relating to the implementation of a Registered Traveler solution. The success of the FLO Alliance will depend on our ability to negotiate definitive arrangements with respect to the obligations of the various members of the alliance and the performance of these third parties’ obligations or their ability to meet their obligations under these arrangements are outside our control. If we are unable to negotiate formal arrangements with these parties or they do not meet or satisfy their obligations under these arrangements, the performance and success of the FLO Alliance and our ability to implement a Registered Traveler solution may be significantly impaired. Our financial results and ability to generate revenue from the Registered Traveler program in the future depend on our ability to negotiate arrangements with the FLO Alliance providing us with an acceptable portion of the annual fees travelers pay to participate in the Registered Traveler program. We believe our principal source of revenue under the Registered Traveler program will be a portion of the annual fees travelers will pay to participate in the Registered Traveler program. We have not determined what annual fee participating travelers would be required to pay, but we anticipate that the annual fee will be approximately $100 per traveler. The TSA has announced that the fee for its portion of the Registered Traveler program, which covers the cost of the TSA’s security threat assessment, will be $28. Following the deduction of TSA’s portion of the annual fee from the anticipated annual fee, the FLO Alliance would receive $72 per traveler to cover services provided by all members of the FLO Alliance, including the registration and enrollment of travelers and the issuance of Registered Traveler cards and related customer service. If we are unable to negotiate favorable arrangements with members of the FLO Alliance providing us with an acceptable portion of the annual fees travelers pay to participate in the Registered Traveler Program, our financial results, and future prospects and ability to generate revenue could be harmed. If the market for our products and services does not experience significant growth or if our biometric, token and smart card products do not achieve broad acceptance in this market, our ability to generate significant revenue in the future would be limited and our business would suffer. A substantial portion of our product and service revenue are derived from the sale of biometric, token and smart card products and services. Biometric, token and smart card solutions have not gained widespread acceptance. It is difficult to predict the future growth rate of this market, if any, or the ultimate size of the biometric, token and smart card technology market. The expansion of the market for our products and services depends on a number of factors such as: • the cost, performance and reliability of our products and services compared to the products and services of our competitors; • customers’ perception of the benefits of biometric, token and smart card solutions; • public perceptions of the intrusiveness of these solutions and the manner in which organizations use the biometric information collected; 10 Table of Contents • public perceptions regarding the confidentiality of private information; • customers’ satisfaction with our products and services; and • marketing efforts and publicity regarding our products and services. Even if biometric, token and smart card solutions gain wide market acceptance, our products and services may not adequately address market requirements and may not gain wide market acceptance. If biometric or smart card solutions or our products and services do not gain wide market acceptance, our business and our financial results will suffer. As our current services and product offerings evolve, we may derive a material portion of our revenue from royalties, which is inherently risky. Because a material portion of our future revenue may be derived from license royalties, our future success depends on: • our ability to secure broad patent coverage for our new technologies and enter into license agreements with potential licensees; and • the ability of our licensees to develop and commercialize successful products that incorporate our technologies. We face risks inherent in a royalty-based business model, many of which are outside of our control, such as the following: • the rate of adoption of our technologies by, and the incorporation of our technologies into products of, OEMs; • the willingness of our licensees and others to make investments to support our licensed technologies, and the amount and timing of those investments; • actions by our licensees that could severely harm our ability to use our proprietary rights; • the pricing and demand for products incorporating our licensed technologies; • our ability to structure, negotiate and enforce agreements for the determination and payment of royalties; and • competition we may face with respect to our licensees competing with our business. It is difficult to predict when we will enter into additional license agreements, if at all. The time it takes to establish a new licensing arrangement can be lengthy. We may also incur delays or deferrals in the execution of license agreements as we develop new technologies. The timing of our receipt of royalty payments and the timing of how we recognize license revenue under license agreements may fluctuate and significantly impact our quarterly or annual operating results. Because we may recognize a significant portion of license fee revenue in the quarter that the license is signed, the timing of signing license agreements may significantly impact our quarterly or annual operating results. Under our license agreements, we also may receive ongoing royalty payments, and these may fluctuate significantly from period to period based on sales of products incorporating our licensed technologies. Our success depends on significant growth in the emerging Registered Traveler market and on broad acceptance of our Registered Traveler products and services in this market. Because we believe a significant source of revenue will be a portion of the annual fees travelers will pay to participate in the Registered Traveler program, our success will depend largely on the expansion of markets for Registered Traveler related products domestically and internationally. The Registered Traveler market is new and unproven and our ability to generate revenue will depend on the size of the market and the market’s acceptance of our products and services. We cannot accurately predict the future growth of this industry or the ultimate size 11 Table of Contents of the Registered Traveler market. Even if the Registered Traveler products and related technology gain market acceptance, our products may not achieve sufficient market acceptance or the market may not be sufficiently large to ensure our viability. We may not be able to compete successfully in the Registered Traveler market against current and potential competitors. We and the FLO Alliance will face intense competition in both the Registered Traveler and travel services markets. Many of our current and potential competitors, such as Verified Identity Pass and Unisys, have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. Verified Identity Pass is currently the only service provider operating a Registered Traveler program at a U.S. airport and has substantial name recognition. We may not be able to compete effectively with these competitors. In addition, as the market evolves there may be competitors that can respond more rapidly to changes in the market. Our competitors may also be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and standards or changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. If we are unable to compete successfully with existing and potential competitors in the Registered Traveler market, our ability to implement our Registered Traveler solution and our business will suffer. We may not be able to find attractive acquisition candidates as part of our growth strategy and, even if we do, we may not be able to integrate acquired companies. In order to expand our Registered Traveler product offerings, we may need to acquire additional businesses, assets or securities of companies that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business, such as companies involved in screening, remote check in, offsite baggage handling, and credentialing. We may not be able to identify acquisition targets and, if identified, we may not be able to complete transactions with these targets. Any business we acquire would need to be integrated with our existing operations. In addition, we could incur unknown or contingent liabilities of acquired companies. Difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel of any acquired companies could disrupt our business operations, divert management’s time and attention and impair relationships with and risk the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business. Our failure to identify acquisition targets or to manage the integration of any acquisition could disrupt our business operations harm our financial condition. If we are unable to keep up with rapid technological change in the biometric technology, smart card, and Registered Traveler markets, we may not be able to compete with our product and service offerings. Our future success will depend upon our ability to keep pace with the developing Registered Traveler market and to integrate new technology into our Registered Traveler solution and introduce new products and product enhancements to address the changing needs of the marketplace. Various technical problems and resource constraints may impede the development, production, distribution and marketing of our Registered Traveler products and services. More advanced or alternate technology employed by competitors and unavailable to us could give our competitors a significant advantage. It is possible that products and services developed by our competitors will significantly limit the potential market for our Registered Traveler products and services or render our products and services obsolete. If Registered Traveler is not accepted by consumers and businesses as a viable retail offering, our ability to continue as a business would be severely jeopardized. The Registered Traveler program has not been widely adopted and is in its infancy. The program may not achieve wide acceptance by airports, airlines and travelers for a number of reasons, including that the Registered Traveler program may not: • be seen as providing tangible and widely anticipated benefits to passengers; 12 Table of Contents • attract significant numbers of registrants; • be seen as generating a pronounced improvement in overall security; • overcome vendor interoperability issues; • diminish system-wide passenger wait times; or • satisfactorily confront and resolve passenger privacy issues. In addition, the current concerns and frustration of travelers over the increased difficulty of air travel may decline and businesses may not wish to invest in technology like our solution that uses biological identifiers to secure and simplify the security screening process. Because we are targeting the Registered Traveler program to grow our business, a failure to accept or a decline in the use of the Registered Traveler program will severely harm our business. If we lose our current or future license rights to use the biometric, encryption, and scanning technologies of third parties, our ability to compete with products that already include this technology will be substantially impaired and may be entirely precluded. Third party biometric identification and authentication software, encryption algorithms, and document scanning and processing technologies play a key role in the Registered Traveler business. We anticipate that these technologies will also play a key role in the future development of our enrollment and authentication kiosks. Our rights under any third party agreements may be terminated if we fail to pay required fees, including minimum specified payments, or if we otherwise breach these agreements. If we lose our rights to use these technologies, our business would likely suffer. Government regulation and legal uncertainties associated with the Registered Traveler program could hurt our business and future prospects. The Registered Traveler program is currently subject to oversight by the TSA. Although private industry has been tasked with the responsibility of crafting specifications and guidelines for this program, it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to Registered Traveler, covering issues such as user privacy, pricing, and characteristics and quality of products and services. Furthermore, the growth and development of the market for Registered Traveler may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on those companies conducting business in this space. Any such new legislation or regulation, or the application of laws or regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to protect, or incur significant costs in defending, our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely primarily on trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and unfair competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. However, our technology is not patented, and we may be unable or may not seek to obtain patent protection for our technology. Moreover, existing U.S. legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights offer only limited protection, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, and may be challenged by third parties. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property or otherwise gaining access to our technology. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer our products or portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. Moreover, many of our employees have access to our trade secrets and other intellectual property. If one or more of these employees leave us to work for 13 Table of Contents one of our competitors, then they may disseminate this proprietary information, which may as a result damage our competitive position. If we fail to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, then our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially harmed. We depend heavily on our network infrastructure and its failure could result in unanticipated expenses and prevent users from effectively utilizing our services, which could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain users. Our success will depend upon the capacity, reliability and security of our network infrastructure. We must continue to expand and adapt our network infrastructure as the number of users and the amount of information at risk increases, and to meet changing customer requirements. The expansion and adaptation of our network infrastructure will require substantial financial, operational and management resources. There can be no assurance that we will be able to expand or adapt our infrastructure to meet additional demand or our customers’ changing requirements on a timely basis, at a commercially reasonable cost, or at all. If we fail to expand its network infrastructure on a timely basis or adapt it either to changing customer requirements or to evolving industry standards, our business could be significantly impacted. In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our network infrastructure against damage from fire, earthquakes, floods, mudslides, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. Despite precautions taken by us, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problem at our network operations center, co-locations centers (sites at which we will locate routers, switches and other computer equipment which make up the backbone of our network infrastructure) could cause, interruptions in the services we provide. The failure of our telecommunications providers to provide the data communications capacity required by us as a result of a natural disaster, operational disruption or for any other reason could also cause interruptions in the services we provide. Any damage or failure that causes interruptions in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on industry leading encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information. Despite the implementation of intense security measures, there can be no assurance that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments will not result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms used by us to protect customer data. If any such compromise of our security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any acquisition we make in the future could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. To date, most of our revenue growth has been created by acquisitions. In any future acquisitions or business combinations, we are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including: • dilution of our current stockholders’ percentage ownership as a result of the issuance of stock; • incurrence or assumption of debt; • assumption of unknown liabilities; or • incurrence of expenses related to the future impairment of goodwill and the amortization of other intangible assets. We may not be able to successfully complete the integration of the businesses, products or technologies or personnel in the businesses or assets that we might acquire in the future, and any failure to do so could disrupt our business and seriously harm our financial condition. 14 Table of Contents We have depended on a limited number of customers for a substantial percentage of our revenue, and due to the non-recurring nature of these sales, our revenue in any quarter may not be indicative of future revenue. Two customers accounted for 13% and 11% of our revenue, for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, while two customers accounted for 16% and 10% of our revenue for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005. A substantial reduction in revenue from any of our significant customers would adversely affect our business unless we were able to replace the revenue received from those customers. As a result of this concentration of revenue from a limited number of customers, our revenue has experienced wide fluctuations, and we may continue to experience wide fluctuations in the future. Many of our sales are not recurring sales, and quarterly and annual sales levels could fluctuate and sales in any period may not be indicative of sales in future periods. Doing business with the United States government entails many risks that could adversely affect us by decreasing the profitability of government contracts we are able to obtain and interfering with our ability to obtain future government contracts. Government sales accounted for 73% of our total sales for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, and 84% of our total sales for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005. Our sales to the U.S. government are subject to risks that include: • early termination of contracts; • disallowance of costs upon audit; and • the need to participate in competitive bidding and proposal processes, which are costly and time consuming and may result in unprofitable contracts. In addition, the government may be in a position to obtain greater rights with respect to our intellectual property than we would grant to other entities. Government agencies also have the power, based on financial difficulties or investigations of their contractors, to deem contractors unsuitable for new contract awards. Because we will engage in the government contracting business, we will be subject to audits and may be subject to investigation by governmental entities. Failure to comply with the terms of any government contracts could result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties, as well as suspension from future government contracts for a significant period of time, any of which could adversely affect our business by requiring us to spend money to pay the fines and penalties and prohibiting us from earning revenues from government contracts during the suspension period. Furthermore, government programs can experience delays or cancellation of funding, which can be unpredictable. For example, the U.S. military’s involvement in Iraq has caused the diversion of some Department of Defense funding away from certain projects in which we participate, thereby delaying orders under certain of our government contracts. This makes it difficult to forecast our revenues on a quarter-by-quarter basis. The lengthy and variable sales cycle of some of our products makes it difficult to predict operating results. Certain of our products have lengthy sales cycles while customers complete in-depth evaluations of the products and receive approvals for purchase. In addition, new product introduction often centers on key trade shows and failure to deliver a product prior to such an event can seriously delay introduction of a product. As a result of the lengthy sales cycles, we may incur substantial expenses before we earn associated revenues because a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed and based on expected revenues. The lengthy sales cycles make forecasting the volume and timing of orders difficult. In addition, the delays inherent in lengthy sales cycles raise additional risks that customers may cancel or change their minds. If customer cancellations or product delays occur, we could lose anticipated sales. 15 Table of Contents A security breach of our internal systems or those of our customers due to computer hackers or cyber terrorists could harm our business by adversely affecting the market’s perception of our products and services. Since we provide security for Internet and other digital communication networks, we may become a target for attacks by computer hackers. The ripple effects throughout the economy of terrorist threats and attacks and military activities may have a prolonged effect on our potential commercial customers, or on their ability to purchase our products and services. Additionally, because we provide security products to the United States government, we may be targeted by cyber terrorist groups for activities threatened against United States-based targets. We will not succeed unless the marketplace is confident that we provide effective security protection for Internet and other digital communication networks. Networks protected by our products may be vulnerable to electronic break-ins. Because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. Although we have never experienced any act of sabotage or unauthorized access by a third party of our internal network to date, if an actual or perceived breach of security for Internet and other digital communication networks occurs in our internal systems or those of our end-user customers, it could adversely affect the market’s perception of our products and services. This could cause us to lose customers, resellers, alliance partners or other business partners. Our financial and operating results often vary significantly from quarter to quarter and may be adversely affected by a number of factors. Our financial and operating results have fluctuated in the past and our financial and operating results could fluctuate in the future from quarter to quarter for the following reasons: • reduced demand for our products and services; • price reductions, new competitors, or the introduction of enhanced products or services from new or existing competitors; • changes in the mix of products and services we or our distributors sell; • contract cancellations, delays or amendments by customers; • the lack of government demand for our products and services or the lack of government funds appropriated to purchase our products and services; • unforeseen legal expenses, including litigation costs; • expenses related to acquisitions; • impairments of goodwill and intangible assets; • other financial charges; • the lack of availability or increase in cost of key components and subassemblies; and • the inability to successfully manufacture in volume, and reduce the price of, certain of our products that may contain complex designs and components. Particularly important is our need to invest in planned technical development programs to maintain and enhance our competitiveness, and to develop and launch new products and services. Improving the manageability and likelihood of success of such programs requires the development of budgets, plans and schedules for the execution of these programs and the adherence to such budgets, plans and schedules. The majority of such program costs are payroll and related staff expenses, and secondarily materials, subcontractors and promotional expenses. These costs will be very difficult to adjust in response to short-term fluctuations in our revenue, compounding the difficulty of achieving profitability. 16 Table of Contents We may be exposed to significant liability for actual or perceived failure to provide required products or services. Products as complex as those we offer may contain undetected errors or may fail when first introduced or when new versions are released. Despite our product testing efforts and testing by current and potential customers, it is possible that errors will be found in new products or enhancements after commencement of commercial shipments. The occurrence of product defects or errors could result in adverse publicity, delay in product introduction, diversion of resources to remedy defects, loss of or a delay in market acceptance, or claims by customers against us, or could cause us to incur additional costs, any of which could adversely affect our business. Because our customers rely on our products for critical security applications, we may be exposed to claims for damages allegedly caused to an enterprise as a result of an actual or perceived failure of our products. An actual or perceived breach of enterprise network or information security systems of one of our customers, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products or solutions, could adversely affect our business reputation. Furthermore, our failure or inability to meet a customer’s expectations in the performance of our services, or to do so in the time frame required by the customer, regardless of our responsibility for the failure, could result in a claim for substantial damages against us by the customer, discourage customers from engaging us for these services, and damage our business reputation. Government regulations affecting security of Internet and other digital communication networks could limit the market for our products and services. The United States government and foreign governments have imposed controls, export license requirements and restrictions on the import or export of some technologies, including encryption technology. Any additional governmental regulation of imports or exports or failure to obtain required export approval of encryption technologies could delay or prevent the acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks for secure communications and could limit the market for our products and services. In addition, some foreign competitors are subject to less rigorous controls on exporting their encryption technologies. As a result, they may be able to compete more effectively than us in the United States and in international security markets for Internet and other digital communication networks. In addition, governmental agencies such as the Federal Communications Commission periodically issue regulations governing the conduct of business in telecommunications markets that may adversely affect the telecommunications industry and us. If we fail to attract and retain qualified senior executive and key technical personnel, our business will not be able to expand. We will be dependent on the continued availability of the services of our employees, many of whom are individually keys to our future success, and the availability of new employees to implement our business plans. Although our compensation program is intended to attract and retain the employees required for us to be successful, there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain the services of all of our key employees or a sufficient number to execute our plans, nor can there be any assurance that we will be able to continue to attract new employees as required. Our personnel may voluntarily terminate their relationship with us at any time, and competition for qualified personnel, especially engineers, is intense. The process of locating additional personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategy could be lengthy, costly and disruptive. If we lose the services of key personnel, or fail to replace the services of key personnel who depart, we could experience a severe negative impact on our financial results and stock price. In addition, there is intense competition for highly qualified engineering and marketing personnel in the locations where we will principally operate. The loss of the services of any key engineering, marketing or other personnel or our failure to attract, integrate, motivate and retain additional key employees could adversely affect on our business and financial results and stock price. 17 Table of Contents Provisions in our certificate of incorporation may prevent or adversely affect the value of a takeover of our company even if a takeover would be beneficial to stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, the issuance of which could adversely affect our common stockholders. We can issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval and upon terms and conditions, and having those types of rights, privileges and preferences, as our board of directors determines. Specifically, the potential issuance of preferred stock may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or may discourage a third party from acquiring, voting control of our company even if the acquisition would benefit stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 