Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Future Results This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our business, operating results, financial performance, and share price may be materially adversely affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to the following risk factors, any one of which could cause actual results to vary materially from anticipated results or from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us in this annual report or in other reports, press releases or other statements issued from time to time. Additional factors that may cause such a difference are set forth elsewhere in this annual report. We have accumulated significant losses and we may not be able to generate significant revenue or any net income in the future, which would negatively impact our ability to run our business. We have accumulated net losses of $4.4 million from our inception through December 31, 2007. We have continued to accumulate losses after December 31, 2007, to date, and we may be unable to generate significant revenue or any net income in the future. We have funded our operations primarily through the issuance of equity and debt securities to investors and may not be able to generate a positive cash flow in the future. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, we will need to seek additional funds through the issuance of additional equity or debt securities or other sources of financing. We may not be able to secure such additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. Any additional financings will likely cause substantial dilution to existing stockholders. If we are unable to obtain necessary additional financing, we may be required to reduce the scope of, or cease, our operations. A significant number of shares of our common stock are or will be eligible for sale in the open market, which could reduce the market price for our common stock and make it difficult for us to raise capital. As of March 27, 2008, 54,889,826 shares of our common stock were outstanding and there were a total of 1,474,379 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise or conversion of outstanding options and warrants. Our existing stock incentive plan had 10,632,510 shares available for future issuance. The issuance of additional 11 Table of Contents shares of our common stock upon the exercise or conversion of outstanding options or warrants or the issuance of restricted stock grants could cause substantial dilution to existing stockholders and could decrease the market price of our common stock due to the sale of a large number of shares of common stock in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the perception of possible sales, could also impair our ability to raise capital in the future. Because they own approximately 71% of our common stock, five stockholders could significantly influence our affairs, which may preclude other stockholders from being able to influence stockholder votes or corporate actions. Five of our stockholders (together with their affiliates), who were former members of IdentiPHI, LLC, beneficially own approximately 71% of our outstanding common stock as of March 27, 2008. Given this substantial ownership, if they decided to act together, they would be able to significantly influence the vote on those corporate matters to be decided by our stockholders. If we fail to protect, or incur significant costs in defending, our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely primarily on trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and unfair competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. However, our technology is not patented, and we may be unable or may not seek to obtain patent protection for our technology. Moreover, existing U.S. legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights offer only limited protection, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, and may be challenged by third parties. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property or otherwise gaining access to our technology. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer our products or portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. Moreover, many of our employees have access to our trade secrets and other intellectual property. If one or more of these employees leave us to work for one of our competitors, then they may disseminate this proprietary information, which may as a result damage our competitive position. If we fail to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, then our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially harmed. We have depended on a limited number of customers for a substantial percentage of our revenue, and due to the non-recurring nature of these sales, our revenue in any period may not be indicative of future revenue. Two customers accounted for 73% and 14%, respectively, of our revenue for fiscal 2007, while the same customer who accounted for 73% of our revenue in 2007 accounted for 86% of our revenue for fiscal 2006. A substantial reduction in revenue from any of our significant customers would adversely affect our business unless we were able to replace the revenue received from those customers. As a result of this concentration of revenue from a limited number of customers, our revenue has experienced wide fluctuations, and we may continue to experience wide fluctuations in the future. Many of our sales are not recurring sales, and quarterly and annual sales levels could fluctuate and sales in any period may not be indicative of sales in future periods. We depend heavily on our network infrastructure and its failure could result in unanticipated expenses and prevent users from effectively utilizing our services, which could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain users. Our success will depend upon the capacity, reliability and security of our network infrastructure. We must continue to expand and adapt our network infrastructure as the number of users and the amount of information at risk increases, and to meet changing customer requirements. The expansion and adaptation of our network 12 Table of Contents infrastructure will require substantial financial, operational and management resources. There can be no assurance that we will be able to expand or adapt our infrastructure to meet additional demand or our customers’ changing requirements on a timely basis, at a commercially reasonable cost, or at all. If we fail to expand its network infrastructure on a timely basis or adapt it either to changing customer requirements or to evolving industry standards, our business could be significantly impacted. In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our network infrastructure against damage from fire, earthquakes, floods, mudslides, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. Despite precautions taken by us, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problem at our network operations center, co-locations centers (sites at which we will locate routers, switches and other computer equipment which make up the backbone of our network infrastructure) could cause, interruptions in the services we provide. The failure of our telecommunications providers to provide the data communications capacity required by us as a result of a natural disaster, operational disruption or for any other reason could also cause interruptions in the services we provide. Any damage or failure that causes interruptions in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on industry leading encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information. Despite the implementation of intense security measures, there can be no assurance that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments will not result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms used by us to protect customer data. If any such compromise of our security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If third parties, on whom we partly depend for our product distribution, do not promote our products, our ability to generate revenue may be limited and our business and financial condition could suffer. We utilize third parties such as resellers, distributors and other technology manufacturers to augment our full-time sales staff in promoting sales of our products. If these third parties do not actively promote our products, our ability to generate revenue may be limited. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources that these third parties devote to marketing activities on our behalf. Some of these business relationships are formalized in agreements that can be terminated with little or no notice, which may further decrease the willingness of such third parties to act on our behalf. We also may not be able to negotiate acceptable distribution relationships in the future and cannot predict whether current or future distribution relationships will be successful. Our reliance on third party technologies for some specific technology elements of our products and our reliance on third parties for manufacturing may delay product launch, impair our ability to develop and deliver products or hurt our ability to compete in the market. Our ability to license new technologies from third parties will be critical to our ability to offer a complete suite of products that meets customer needs and technological requirements. Some of our licenses do not run for the full duration of the third party’s patent for the licensed technology. We may not be able to renew our existing licenses on favorable terms, or at all. If we lose the rights to a patented technology, we may need to stop selling or may need to redesign our products that incorporate that technology, and we may lose a competitive advantage. In addition, competitors could obtain licenses for technologies for which we are unable to obtain licenses, and third parties may develop or enable others to develop a similar solution to digital communication security issues, either of which events could erode our market share. Also, dependence on the patent protection of third parties may not afford us any control over the protection of the technologies upon which we rely. If the patent protection of any of these third parties were compromised, our ability to compete in the market also would be impaired. 13 Table of Contents The anticipated benefits of our recently completed merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than anticipated. Our recently completed merger involved the integration of two companies that had previously operated independently with principal offices in two distinct locations. We must now devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the two companies. Delays in this process could adversely affect our business, operations, financial results, financial condition and stock price. Even if we are able to integrate the two companies there can be no assurance that this integration will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that we had anticipated from the merger or that these benefits will be achieved within a reasonable period of time. The lengthy and variable sales cycle of some of our products makes it difficult to predict operating results. Certain of our products have lengthy sales cycles while customers complete in-depth evaluations of the products and receive approvals for purchase. In addition, new product introduction often centers on key trade shows and failure to deliver a product prior to such an event can seriously delay introduction of a product. As a result of the lengthy sales cycles, we may incur substantial expenses before we earn associated revenues because a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed and based on expected revenues. The lengthy sales cycles make forecasting the volume and timing of orders difficult. In addition, the delays inherent in lengthy sales cycles raise additional risks that customers may cancel or change their minds. If customer cancellations or product delays occur, we could lose anticipated sales. We face intense competition and pricing pressures from a number of sources, which may reduce our average selling prices and gross margins. The markets where we offer our products and services are intensely competitive. As a result, we face significant competition from a number of sources. We may be unable to compete successfully because many of our competitors are more established, benefit from greater name recognition and have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. In addition, there are several smaller and start-up companies with which we compete from time to time. We expect competition to increase as a result of consolidation in the information security technology industry. The average selling prices for our products may decline as a result of competitive pricing pressures, promotional programs and customers who negotiate price reductions in exchange for longer-term purchase commitments. The pricing of products depends on the specific features and functions of the products, purchase volumes and the level of sales and service support required. As we experience pricing pressure, the average selling prices and gross margins for our products may decrease over product lifecycles. These same competitive pressures may require us to write down the carrying value of any inventory on hand, which would adversely affect our operating results and adversely affect our earnings per share. A security breach of our internal systems or those of our customers due to computer hackers or cyber terrorists could harm our business by adversely affecting the market’s perception of our products and services. Since we provide security for Internet and other digital communication networks, we may become a target for attacks by computer hackers. The ripple effects throughout the economy of terrorist threats and attacks and military activities may have a prolonged effect on our potential commercial customers, or on their ability to purchase our products and services. Additionally, because we provide security products to the United States government, we may be targeted by cyber terrorist groups for activities threatened against United States-based targets. We will not succeed unless the marketplace is confident that we provide effective security protection for Internet and other digital communication networks. Networks protected by our products may be vulnerable to electronic break-ins. Because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change 14 Table of Contents frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. Although we have never experienced any act of sabotage or unauthorized access by a third party of our internal network to date, if an actual or perceived breach of security for Internet and other digital communication networks occurs in our internal systems or those of our end-user customers, it could adversely affect the market’s perception of our products and services. This could cause us to lose customers, resellers, alliance partners or other business partners. Our financial and operating results often vary significantly from quarter to quarter and may be adversely affected by a number of factors. Our financial and operating results have fluctuated in the past and our financial and operating results could fluctuate in the future from quarter to quarter for the following reasons: • reduced demand for our products and services; • price reductions, new competitors, or the introduction of enhanced products or services from new or existing competitors; • changes in the mix of products and services we or our distributors sell; • contract cancellations, delays or amendments by customers; • unforeseen legal expenses, including litigation costs; • expenses related to acquisitions; • impairments of goodwill and intangible assets; • other financial charges; • the lack of availability or increase in cost of key components and subassemblies; and • the inability to successfully manufacture in volume, and reduce the price of, certain of our products that may contain complex designs and components. Particularly important is our need to invest in planned technical development programs to maintain and enhance our competitiveness, and to develop and launch new products and services. Improving the manageability and likelihood of success of such programs requires the development of budgets, plans and schedules for the execution of these programs and the adherence to such budgets, plans and schedules. The majority of such program costs are payroll and related staff expenses, and secondarily materials, subcontractors and promotional expenses. These costs will be very difficult to adjust in response to short-term fluctuations in our revenue, compounding the difficulty of achieving profitability. We may be unable to keep pace with rapid technological change in network operating environments, which could lead to an increase in our costs, a loss of customers or a delay in market acceptance of our products. Network operating environments are characterized by rapid development and technological improvements. Because of these changes, our success will depend in part on our ability to keep pace with a changing marketplace, integrate new technology into our core software and hardware and introduce new products and product enhancements that build off of our existing technologies to address the changing needs of the marketplace. Various technical problems and resource constraints may impede the development, production, distribution and marketing of our products and services. In addition, laws, rules, regulations or industry standards may be adopted in response to these technological changes, which in turn, could materially and adversely affect how we will do business. 15 Table of Contents Our future success will also depend upon our ability to develop and introduce a variety of new products and services, and enhancements to these new products and services, to address the changing and sophisticated needs of the marketplace. Frequently, technical development programs in the biometric and smart card industry require assessments to be made of the future directions of technology and technology markets generally, which are inherently risky and difficult to predict. Delays in introducing new products, services and enhancements, the failure to choose correctly among technical alternatives or the failure to offer innovative products and services at competitive prices may cause customers to forego purchases of our products and services and purchase those of our competitors. Our continued participation in the market for governmental agencies may require the investment of our resources in upgrading our products and technology for us to compete and to meet regulatory and statutory standards. We may not have adequate resources available to us or may not adequately keep pace with appropriate requirements to compete effectively in the marketplace. Our efforts to expand our international operations are subject to a number of risks, including our potential inability to obtain government authorization regarding exports of our products, any of which could adversely affect our future international sales. We must comply with U.S. laws regulating the export of our products in order to ship internationally. In some cases, authorization from the U.S. government may be needed in order to export our products. The export regimes applicable to our business are subject to frequent changes, as are the governing policies. Although we have obtained approvals to export certain of our products, we cannot assure you that such authorizations to export will be available to us or for our products in the future. If we cannot obtain the required government approvals under these regulations, we may not be able to sell products abroad or make products available for sale internationally. Additionally, our international operations could be subject to a number of risks, any of which could adversely affect our future international sales, including: • increased collection risks; • trade restrictions; • export duties and tariffs; • uncertain political, regulatory and economic developments; and • inability to protect our intellectual property rights. We may be exposed to significant liability for actual or perceived failure to provide required products or services. Products as complex as those we offer may contain undetected errors or may fail when first introduced or when new versions are released. Despite our product testing efforts and testing by current and potential customers, it is possible that errors will be found in new products or enhancements after commencement of commercial shipments. The occurrence of product defects or errors could result in adverse publicity, delay in product introduction, diversion of resources to remedy defects, loss of or a delay in market acceptance, or claims by customers against us, or could cause us to incur additional costs, any of which could adversely affect our business. Because our customers rely on our products for critical security applications, we may be exposed to claims for damages allegedly caused to an enterprise as a result of an actual or perceived failure of our products. An actual or perceived breach of enterprise network or information security systems of one of our customers, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products or solutions, could adversely affect our business reputation. Furthermore, our failure or inability to meet a customer’s expectations in the performance of our services, or to do so in the time frame required by the customer, regardless of our responsibility for the failure, could result in a claim for substantial damages against us by the customer, discourage customers from engaging us for these services, and damage our business reputation. 16 Table of Contents Government regulations affecting security of Internet and other digital communication networks could limit the market for our products and services. The United States government and foreign governments have imposed controls, export license requirements and restrictions on the import or export of some technologies, including encryption technology. Any additional governmental regulation of imports or exports or failure to obtain required export approval of encryption technologies could delay or prevent the acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks for secure communications and could limit the market for our products and services. In addition, some foreign competitors are subject to less rigorous controls on exporting their encryption technologies. As a result, they may be able to compete more effectively than us in the United States and in international security markets for Internet and other digital communication networks. In addition, governmental agencies such as the Federal Communications Commission periodically issue regulations governing the conduct of business in telecommunications markets that may adversely affect the telecommunications industry and us. If we fail to attract and retain qualified senior executive and key technical personnel, our business will not be able to expand. We will be dependent on the continued availability of the services of our employees, many of whom are individually keys to our future success, and the availability of new employees to implement our business plans. Although our compensation program is intended to attract and retain the employees required for us to be successful, there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain the services of all of our key employees or a sufficient number to execute our plans, nor can there be any assurance that we will be able to continue to attract new employees as required. Our personnel may voluntarily terminate their relationship with us at any time, and competition for qualified personnel, especially engineers, is intense. The process of locating additional personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategy could be lengthy, costly and disruptive. If we lose the services of key personnel, or fail to replace the services of key personnel who depart, we could experience a severe negative impact on our financial results and stock price. In addition, there is intense competition for highly qualified engineering and marketing personnel in the locations where we will principally operate. The loss of the services of any key engineering, marketing or other personnel or our failure to attract, integrate, motivate and retain additional key employees could adversely affect on our business and financial results and stock price. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation may prevent or adversely affect the value of a takeover of our company even if a takeover would be beneficial to stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 66,667 shares of preferred stock, the issuance of which could adversely affect our common stockholders. We can issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval and upon terms and conditions, and having those types of rights, privileges and preferences, as our board of directors determines. Specifically, the potential issuance of preferred stock may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or may discourage a third party from acquiring, voting control of our company even if the acquisition would benefit stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 