ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS Our business is subject to the general volatility of the shipping market. The shipping industry is subject to cyclical fluctuations in charter rates and vessel values based on changes in supply and demand. The industry has been experiencing volatility in profitability, vessel values and charter rates resulting from changes in the supply of, and demand for, shipping capacity. The factors which affect the supply of and demand for vessel capacity are beyond the control of the Company. In addition, the nature, timing and degree of changes in the shipping markets, in which the Company operates, as well as future charter rates and values of its vessels, are not readily predictable. Our business is subject to significant environmental and other regulations. The operation of vessels is affected by extensive and changing environmental protection and other laws and regulations, compliance with which may entail significant expense, including expenses for ship modifications and changes in operating procedures. Such expense could have a material adverse effect on the Company at any time. Our business is subject to government regulation which may increase our costs and potential liabilities, including for the failure to obtain required permits, licenses and certificates and the failure to keep up with changing regulations. The shipping business is materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state or local laws and regulations, and laws and regulations of the flag nations of its vessels, including laws relating to the discharge of materials into the environment. Because such conventions, laws and regulations are often revised, the Company is unable to predict the ultimate costs of complying with such conventions, laws and regulations. Under certain regulations, a vessel owner may be liable for property and environmental damages and all of its assets could be subject to claim for such damages. Moreover, in certain jurisdictions, under the "sister ship" doctrine, all of the affiliates in a fleet of ships may be liable for damages caused by, or debts incurred with respect to, a ship owned by one affiliate, and the ships and other assets of all the affiliates may be subject to attachments. 7 Table of Contents Shipping is an inherently risky business and our insurance may not be adequate. The business of the Company is affected by the risks of mechanical failure of the Company’s vessels, collisions, property losses to the vessels, cargo loss or damage, and business interruption due to political action in foreign countries and labor strikes. In addition, the operation of any ocean-going vessel entails an inherent risk of catastrophic marine disaster. Any of these events may result in loss of revenues, increased costs and decreased cash flows. The Company maintains Insurance consistent with industry practice. Nonetheless, risks may arise against which we are not adequately insured. For example, a catastrophic event could exceed our insurance coverage and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Although the Company has had no difficulty in obtaining such insurance for its vessels in the past, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to procure sufficient amounts of insurance at commercially reasonable rates in the future and we cannot guarantee that any particular claim will be paid. There may be risks associated with the purchase and operation of second hand vessels. The economic useful lives of most gas carriers are generally estimated to be approximately 30 years, depending on market conditions, the type of cargo being carried and the level of maintenance. Although we inspect second-hand vessels prior to purchase, this does not normally provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have had if such vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Second-hand vessels carry no warranties from sellers or manufacturers. In general, expenditures necessary to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. Second-hand vessels may develop unexpected mechanical and operational problems despite adherence to regular survey schedules and proper maintenance. Changes in governmental regulations and safety standards may require expenditures for alterations. The Company’s vessels range from 10 to 30 years old. There can be no assurance that market conditions will justify the level of expenditures necessary to maintain such vessels, to comply with applicable regulations, to enable the Company to operate such vessels profitably during the remainder of such vessels’ useful lives or to sell such vessels at prices approaching or in excess of the book value. Therefore, our future operating results could be negatively affected if some of the vessels do not perform as we expect. We may face unexpected repair costs for our vessels. Repairs and maintenance costs are difficult to predict with certainty and may be substantial. Many of these expenses are not covered by our insurance. Large repair expenses could decrease our cash flow and profitability and reduce our liquidity. Our revenues may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels. The Company’s vessels are currently chartered for periods ranging from three to fifty one months. Upon the termination of such charters, the Company may seek to sell one or more of its vessels, enter into medium- to long-term charters or trade such vessels in the spot market. If the Company decides to recharter the vessels, there can be no assurance that it will be able to enter into charters for periods and at rates of hire that will be sufficient to enable the Company’s vessels to be operated profitably. We are dependant on a few charterers and if we lose any of our charterers or a significant portion of our revenues, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. The Company has derived and is expected to continue to derive, a significant portion of its revenues from a limited number of charterers. If the Company loses a significant customer, or if a significant customer decreases the amount of business it transacts with us, our revenues, cash flows and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. The risks associated with operations outside the United States could adversely impact our operating results. The Company’s operations are conducted worldwide, and may be affected by changing economic, political and social conditions in the countries where the Company is engaged in business or where the Company’s vessels are registered or flagged. In particular, the Company’s operations may be affected by war, expropriation of vessels, the imposition of taxes, increase regulation or other circumstances, and as a consequence the Company may incur higher costs, its assets may be impaired or its operations may be curtailed. 8 Table of Contents Our operating performance may be materially affected by competition. Competition in the operation of LPG carriers is intense. A few large and experienced operators, with greater financial resources than those of the Company, dominate the LPG sector, particularly in the larger ship segments, and there is no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully with other shipping firms. Related party transactions may materially affect our business. Certain of the directors and executive officers of the Company are involved in outside business activities similar to those conducted by the Company. As a result of such affiliations, such persons may experience conflicts of interest in connection with the selection, purchase, operation and sale of the Company’s vessels and those of other entities affiliated with such persons. If we default under any of our loan agreements, we could forfeit our rights in our vessels and their charters. We have pledged all of our vessels and related collateral as security to the lenders under our loan agreements. Default under any of these loan agreements, if not waived or modified, would permit the lenders to foreclose on the mortgages over the vessels and the related collateral, and we could lose our rights in the vessels and their charters. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK You may not be able to sell your common stock when you want to and, if you do, you may not be able to receive the price that you want. Although our common stock trades on the American Stock Exchange, we do not know if an active trading market for the common stock will continue or, if it does, at what prices the common stock may trade. During 2005, the reported closing prices for our common stock have ranged from a high of $15.82 to a low of $3.55. In addition, the stock markets in general, including the American Stock Exchange, have experienced extreme price and trading volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have resulted in volatility in the market prices of securities that has often been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market prices of our common stock. Further, possible additional issuances could significantly increase the number of shares of our common stock outstanding, and could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Therefore, you may not be able to sell our common stock when you want and, if you do, you may not receive the price you want. We cannot assure you that we will pay any dividends. In March 2005, our board of directors initiated a cash dividend policy. The timing and amount of dividends, if any, could be affected by factors affecting cash flows, results of operations, required capital expenditures, or reserves. Maintaining the dividend policy will depend on our cash earnings, financial condition and cash requirements and could be affected by factors, including the loss of a vessel, required capital expenditures, reserves established by the board of directors, increased or unanticipated expenses, additional borrowings or future issuances of securities, which may be beyond our control. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 9 Table of Contents ITEM 