Item 1A. Risk Factors The factors described below represent principal risks to our business. While we have programs in place to manage these risks we face, our results could be adversely affected by the occurrence of one or more of these factors. Ø Changes in global economic, political and social conditions may adversely affect our financial results. We are active participants in the markets of North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, and Latin America. Economic and political conditions and social unrest can cause fluctuations in demand and volatility in the price of raw materials and other costs that can adversely affect our financial results. In addition, economic conditions affecting the building and construction, electronics, packaging and paper, industrial and other, transportation, household and personal care, water and food markets could adversely affect our financial results. Ø Changes in foreign currencies may adversely affect our financial results. Approximately 59% of our sales are derived from outside the United States, a significant portion of which are denominated in foreign currencies. We have significant production facilities which are located outside of the United States. Our financial results therefore will be affected by changes in foreign currency rates. We use certain financial instruments to mitigate these effects, but it is not cost effective to hedge our foreign currency exposure in a manner that would entirely eliminate the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates on our earnings, cash flows and fair values of assets and liabilities. Accordingly, reported sales, net earnings, cash flows and fair values have been and in the future will be affected by changes in foreign exchange rates. Ø As a multinational company, changes in foreign laws and regulatory requirements, export controls or international tax treaties could adversely affect our financial results. We may have to comply with unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulatory requirements which could negatively impact our operations and ability to manage our global resources. Export controls or other regulatory restrictions could prevent us from shipping our products into and from some markets. Changes in tax regulation and international tax treaties could reduce the financial performance of our foreign operations. Ø Deliberate, malicious acts, including terrorism, could damage our facilities, disrupt our operations or injure employees, contractors, customers or the public and adversely affect our financial results. Intentional acts of destruction could hinder our sales or production and disrupt our supply chain. Our facilities could be damaged or destroyed, reducing our operational production capacity and requiring us to repair or replace our facilities at a substantial cost. Employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury for which we could be liable. Governmental authorities may impose security or other requirements that could make our operations more difficult or costly. The consequences of any such actions could adversely affect our financial results. Ø Actions by our competitors may adversely affect our financial results. Our products are sold in a competitive, global economy. Competitors include many large multinational chemical firms based in Europe, Asia and the United States. New competitive products or pricing policies of our competitors can materially affect demand for and pricing of our products. Ø Changes in demand may adversely affect our financial results. Our financial results are subject to fluctuations in demand, the effective forecasting of customer demand, the seasonal activity of certain of our businesses and weather conditions, particularly for the Salt segment. We also manufacture and sell our products to customers in industries and countries that are experiencing periods of rapid change, most notably countries in Central and Eastern Europe, Turkey, Russia, Latin America and the Asia-Pacific region. These factors can affect demand for our products and therefore may have a significant impact on financial results. Ø Restrictions on, and increased costs of, raw material supplies and energy may adversely affect our financial results. We purchase large amounts of raw materials and energy for our businesses. The costs of these materials and energy, in the aggregate, represent a substantial portion of our operating expenses. From time to time, certain raw materials we require become limited. It is likely this will occur again in the future. Should such limitations arise, disruptions of our supply chain may lead to higher prices and/or shortages. Also, the costs of these raw materials and energy vary with market conditions and may be highly volatile. While we try to increase the prices of our products to cover increases in our costs, we may not be able to raise our prices as quickly as the costs rise, if at all, as our customers may not accept these increases. Ultimately, our ability to pass on increases in the cost of raw materials or energy to customers is greatly dependent upon market conditions and raising prices could result in a loss of sales volume. Further, increases in energy prices may increase our shipping 19 costs. These limitations and increased costs could adversely affect our financial results. (See additional discussion of raw materials in Item 1.) Ø Production facilities are subject to operating risks and capacity limitations that may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We are dependent on the continued operation of our production facilities. Production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacturing, handling, storage, and transportation of chemical materials and products, including pipeline leaks and ruptures, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, labor difficulties, transportation interruptions, and environmental risks. Further, from time to time, we may experience capacity limitations in our manufacturing operations. In addition, if we are unable to effectively forecast our customers’ demand, it could affect our ability to successfully manage operating capacity limitations. These hazards, limitations, disruptions in supply and capacity constraints could adversely affect financial results. Ø An incident affecting the Houston ship channel area may adversely affect our financial results. An incident affecting the Houston ship channel area could materially impact our financial results as it could significantly affect both our operations because our largest plant is located there; and our sources of supply, as a large portion of our petrochemical supply is from this area. Ø Failure to develop new technology or the development and successful implementation of new, competing technologies by our competitors could adversely affect future financial results. If we fail to develop new technology or if our competitors successfully develop and implement new, competing technologies in the market place, our future financial results could be significantly impacted. Ø Failure of our intellectual property protections could adversely affect future financial results. We have invested significant resources in intellectual properties such as patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets. Since we depend on these intellectual resources for our financial stability and future growth, we rely on the protection that these intellectual property rights provide. With a significant portion of our operations outside the U.S., we could face challenges in protecting our intellectual property and we may not be able to adequately protect our trademarks and other intellectual property overseas due to uncertainty of laws and enforcement in a number of countries relating to the protection of intellectual property rights. A loss of intellectual property protections could enhance the ability of our competitors to develop competitive products, thereby adversely affecting our financial results. We also rely on unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While it is our policy to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to restrict the use and disclosure of our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, those confidentiality agreements may be breached. In addition, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of such trade secrets and know-how, and others could obtain knowledge of such trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal means. A breach of these trade secrets and know-how could adversely affect our financial results. Ø Failure to realize benefits from joint ventures, alliances or acquisitions could adversely affect future financial results. We have entered, and in the future may enter, into arrangements with other companies to expand product offerings and to enhance our own capabilities. We may continue to make strategic acquisitions and divestitures. In certain of these ventures, we share control with third parties and run the risk of encountering differences of opinion or having difficulty in reaching consensus with respect to certain business issues. In addition, the success of acquisitions of new technologies, companies and products, or arrangements with third parties, is not predictable and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in realizing our objectives, or that realization may not take longer than anticipated, or that there will not be unintended adverse consequences from these actions. These complications and issues arising from our participation in joint ventures, alliances and acquisitions could adversely affect our financial results. Ø Environmental costs could adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental, safety and health laws, and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions in the air, discharges to land and water, and the generation, handling, treatment, and disposal of hazardous waste and other materials. We take our environmental responsibilities very seriously, but there is a risk of environmental impact inherent in chemical manufacturing operations. Future developments and more stringent environmental regulations may require us to make additional unforeseen environmental expenditures. In addition, laws and regulations require significant 20 expenditures for environmental protection equipment, compliance and remediation. These additional costs may adversely affect our financial results. Ø Litigation results could adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to litigation in the normal course of business. In addition, we could become subject to additional claims in the future. An adverse outcome of one or more of these litigation matters, both current and those that may affect us in the future, could adversely affect our financial results. Ø Inability to attract, develop or retain quality employees could adversely impact our ability to achieve our objectives. We have objectives in our businesses and regions to sustain and grow the company. Continued success in achieving the objectives of the company depends on the recruitment, development and retention of qualified employees. Without these employees, we may not be able to achieve these objectives. Ø Any damage to our reputation could adversely affect our financial results. Maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. If we fail to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, our reputation could be jeopardized. Adverse publicity, whether or not valid, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. Damage to our reputation or loss of confidence in our products for any of these reasons could adversely affect our financial results. Ø Uncertainty related to our pending merger and contractual restrictions while the merger is pending could adversely affect our business. As previously disclosed, on July 10, 2008, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with The Dow Chemical Company and Ramses Acquisition Corporation (Dow). Uncertainty about when and whether the merger will be completed and about the effects of the merger may have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the merger agreement restricts us from taking specified actions without Dow’s approval. These restrictions could prevent us from pursing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the merger and could otherwise have a material adverse impact on our company. Ø Failure to complete the transaction with Dow could negatively impact our stock price, future business and financial results. As previously disclosed, on January 26, 2009, we filed suit in the Delaware Court of Chancery against Dow alleging that, even though all conditions to Dow’s obligation to close the merger have been satisfied, Dow, in breach of its obligations under the Merger Agreement, has refused to consummate the transaction. The suit seeks an order of specific performance requiring Dow to close the merger immediately. If we do not obtain the relief we are seeking in the law suit, there is possibility that the merger will not be completed in a timely manner or at all. If the merger is not completed, we will be subject to certain risks including the following: • because the current price of our common stock may reflect a market assumption that we will complete the merger, a failure to complete the merger could result in a decline in the price of our common stock; and • the pending merger and related matters may distract our employees from day-to-day operations and require substantial commitments of time and resources, and may also impair our relations with our employees, customers, suppliers and other constituencies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Rohm and Haas Company has no unresolved staff comments. 21 