Item 1A. Risk Factors. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Company Changes in reimbursement or coverage limitations by third-party payors, including Medicaid and Medicare, could harm our business. The price we receive for our products depends primarily on the reimbursement rates paid by government and private payors. In 2007, we generated approximately 64% of our net sales from patients who rely on Medicaid, ADAP, and Medicare (excluding Part D, which is administered through private payor sources) for reimbursement. In 2008, approximately 58% of our revenues came from Medicaid, ADAP and Medicare (excluding Part D, which is administered through private payor sources). In recent years, these programs have reduced reimbursement to providers. Our revenues and profitability are affected by the efforts of healthcare payors, including Medicaid, ADAP, Medicare Parts B and D and private payors, to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare by lowering reimbursement rates and negotiating reduced or capitated pricing arrangements. In addition, changes to the programs or coverage limitations established by the programs for the medications we sell may reduce our earnings. For example, these programs could decide not to cover certain medications or cover only a certain number of units prescribed within a specified time period. Other changes may include modifications in the timing or processing of payments and other changes intended to limit or decrease the growth of Medicaid, Medicare, and other government programs, or third party expenditures. Any reduction in amounts reimbursable by government programs for our products and services or changes in regulations governing such reimbursements could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents In particular, the California legislature has recently implemented reductions in Medi-Cal reimbursement rates. Effective July 1, 2008, the California legislature approved a 10% reduction in the reimbursement to providers paid under Medi-Cal. The 10% reduction, which was initiated as part of the fiscal 2009 state budget setting process included reduced reimbursement for prescription drugs. On August 18, 2008, the U.S. District Court issued a preliminary injunction to halt certain portions of the 10% payment reduction, including the reductions related to prescription drugs. In response to this ruling, the California DHCS eliminated the 10% payment reduction, effective September 5, 2008. The DHCS also announced that corrections to previously adjudicated claims for dates of service on or after August 18, 2008 will be reprocessed at rates in effect prior to the cuts. The State of California has filed an appeal of the preliminary injunction with the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. In September 2008, Assembly Bill 1183 was enacted in California, which requires provider payments to be reduced by 1% or 5%, depending upon the provider type, for dates of service on or after March 1, 2009. These reductions will replace the 10% provider payment reductions previously implemented. Based on the results for our Specialty HIV business for the year ended December 31, 2008 and the results for our Specialty Infusion business for the nine months ended December 31, 2008, our annualized net sales for prescription drugs from the Medi-Cal program subject to the 5% and 1% reductions total approximately $58 million and $9 million, respectively, or 16.0% and 2.4% of our total annualized net sales, respectively. On January 16, 2009, Managed Pharmacy Care and other plaintiffs filed a complaint challenging the 5% rate reduction to providers of pharmacy services under Assembly Bill 1183. On February 27, 2009, the U.S. District Court issued a preliminary injunction prohibiting DHCS from implementing the 5% reduction in payments to pharmacies for prescription drugs (including prescription drugs and traditional over-the-counter drugs provided by prescription) provided under the Medi-Cal fee-for-service program. If ultimately implemented, we believe these rate reductions will have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and financial results. Reimbursement under Medicare has also been the subject of cost containment measures and reductions. On July 15, 2008, MIPPA was enacted, which changed the way certain low income beneficiaries will be affected by cost sharing requirements. Under this provision, effective January 1, 2010, special needs plans (a type of Medicare Advantage plan) serving beneficiaries eligible for full benefits under Medicaid, or for limited benefits under the Qualified Medicare Beneficiary program, will be prohibited from charging cost-sharing amounts, such as deductibles and co-payments, in excess of what would be permitted under Medicaid. This limitation on cost-sharing amounts could reduce the amount we collect for drugs in these instances. However, another section of MIPPA limits cost containment measures, requiring the Secretary of DHHS, by plan year 2010 to designate drugs that would fall into a “protected class.” This designation limits the use of cost containment tools that can be imposed by Part D plan sponsors. On January 15, 2009, CMS issued interim final regulations, effective January 16, 2009, implementing these MIPPA provisions and providing that for plan year 2010, the six existing protected classes (which include HIV/AIDS drugs) would continue to apply to Part D plan sponsors, and that for plan years 2011 and beyond, CMS will use the notice-and-comment rulemaking process if it makes any modifications to the protected classes. Although unlikely, it is possible that for plan year 2011 or beyond, CMS might propose the removal of HIV/AIDS drugs from the set of protected classes — a policy that, if finalized, could result in the imposition of cost containment measures that would reduce access to our drugs. We are also dependent on reimbursement from private payors. Many payors seek to limit the number of providers that supply drugs to their enrollees. From time to time, private payors with which we have relationships require that we and our competitors bid to keep their business, and there can be no assurance that we will be retained or that our margins will not be adversely affected if and when re-bidding occurs. If we are not retained or we are subject to reduced reimbursement rates, our net sales could be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents If we do not continue to qualify for preferred reimbursement programs in California and New York, our net sales could decline. In 2004, California approved the California Pilot Program, which provides additional reimbursement for HIV/AIDS medications for up to ten qualified pharmacies. We own two of the ten pharmacies that qualified for this program. The California Pilot Program has been renewed until June 30, 2009. However, we can offer no assurance that the California legislature will approve continued premium reimbursement after June 30, 2009. We have also qualified as a specialty HIV pharmacy in New York that makes us eligible to receive preferred reimbursement rates for HIV/AIDS medications. Our continuing qualification for specialized HIV pharmacy reimbursement in New York is dependent upon our recertification every two years by the Department of Health in New York as an approved HIV pharmacy. We have been notified that the New York program has been extended through September 2009, and we are awaiting recertification. However, we can offer no assurance that we will obtain our recertification in New York; if we do not, our net sales and profit would be adversely affected. There also can be no assurance that the California or New York legislatures will not change these programs in a manner adverse to us or will not terminate early or elect not to renew these programs. If either of these programs are not renewed or are terminated early, our net sales and profit could be adversely affected. Additionally, if either California or New York permits additional companies to take advantage of these additional reimbursement programs, our competitive advantage in these states would be adversely impacted. The denial of our Medi-Cal change of ownership application could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. The California DHCS has notified us that it has denied our application for a change of ownership as a Medi-Cal provider at Biomed’s Inglewood, California pharmacy location. As a result of this denial, we have transferred the prescriptions of Medi-Cal patients to our Van Nuys pharmacy location, and we are no longer serving Medi-Cal patients out of the Inglewood location. We have appealed DHCS’s decision, and we intend to vigorously pursue our appeal and believe we will ultimately succeed. However, we can offer no assurance that we will prevail in our appeal or that DHCS’s denial will be reversed. If our application for a change of ownership is ultimately denied, we could be required to reimburse Medi-Cal for any amounts paid under the Inglewood Medi-Cal provider number since the original change of ownership in July 2007, when Biomed acquired the pharmacy. Although we have not received any demands for reimbursement from the State of California, if we are required to repay the Inglewood Medi-Cal reimbursements, we intend to seek contribution from the former owners of Biomed for any repayment obligations. However, we may not receive any contribution we seek and any repayment obligations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Downturns in the general economy and restrictions in the credit markets may result in reduced reimbursement rates and negatively impact our access to financing sources. Worldwide economic conditions and the international credit markets have recently significantly deteriorated and will likely remain depressed for the foreseeable future. While sales of our products are not typically sensitive to general declines in U.S. and regional economies, general economic downturns may cause erosion in the tax base and restrictions on state governments’ ability to obtain financing, which could result in reimbursement rate cuts or reimbursement delays from governmental payors. In addition, the restrictions in the credit markets could make it more difficult for us to replace our current credit facility or obtain additional financing, if needed. If demand for our products and services is reduced, our business and ability to grow would be harmed. A reduction in demand for HIV/AIDS medications or for injectible or infusible medications for the treatment of Hemophilia, auto-immune disorders or primary immunodeficiency diseases would significantly 25 Table of Contents harm our business, as we would not be able to quickly shift our business to provide medications for other diseases or disorders. Reduced demand for our products and services could be caused by a number of circumstances, such as: • A cure or vaccine for HIV/AIDS, Hemophilia, auto-immune disorders, or PID; • The emergence of a new strain of HIV that is resistant to available HIV/AIDS medications; • Shifts to treatment regimens other than those we offer; • New methods of delivery of existing HIV/AIDS medications or of injectible or infusible medications that do not require our specialty pharmacy and disease management services; • Recalls of the medications we sell; • Adverse reactions caused by the medications we sell; • The expiration of or challenge to the drug patents on the medications we sell; or • Competing treatment from a new HIV/AIDS medication or from a new injectible or infusible medication or a new use of an existing HIV/AIDS, injectible, or infusible medication. Our revenues could be adversely affected if new drugs or combination therapies are developed and prescribed to our patients that have a reimbursement rate less than that of the current drug therapies our patients receive. If our patients switch medications to those with lower reimbursement rates or to combination therapies, which combine multiple HIV drugs into a single medication, our net sales could decline. Combination therapies reduce the number of total prescriptions received by our patients, resulting in reduced average revenues and a decrease in dispensing fees per patient. In the second half of 2006, we began dispensing ATRIPLAtm. ATRIPLAtm is a once-daily single tablet regimen for HIV intended as a stand-alone therapy or in combination with other anti-retrovirals. ATRIPLAtm combines SUSTIVA®, manufactured by Bristol-Myers Squibb, and Truvada®, manufactured by Gilead Sciences. During the quarter ended December 31, 2008, approximately 11.0% of our patients received ATRIPLAtm compared to 9.6% in the same period in 2007. Conversion to ATRIPLAtm has resulted in the loss of one or two dispensing fees per patient, depending on the previous drug combination used by these patients. Our results of operations may be negatively impacted if the number of our patients using ATRIPLAtm or other similar new therapies increases in the future or if the reimbursement for ATRIPLAtm or other similar new therapies is reduced. We have an ongoing informal inquiry by the SEC’s Enforcement Division, and depending on the length, scope and results of the informal inquiry, our business, financial condition and results of operations could experience a material adverse impact. We have cooperated fully with the SEC’s Enforcement Division in connection with its informal inquiry and produced requested documents and information. On December 8, 2008, we submitted an Offer of Settlement, which, if accepted by the SEC, would result in an order against the Company to cease and desist from committing or causing any violations of Section 13 of the Exchange Act. However, if the SEC does not accept our Offer of Settlement and we are ultimately required to pay significant amounts or take significant corrective actions, our costs could significantly increase and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the risks associated with the ongoing informal inquiry could negatively impact the perception of our company by investors and others, which could adversely affect the price of our securities, our access to capital markets and our borrowing costs. Furthermore, if the SEC requests additional information, we may continue incurring expenses in connection with responding to the SEC’s informal inquiry, and these increased expenses could negatively impact our financial results. Our senior management has devoted a significant amount of time and effort to responding to the SEC’s informal inquiry. As a result, if our senior management is unable to devote sufficient 26 Table of Contents time in the future toward managing our existing business operations and executing our growth strategy, we may not be able to remain competitive and our revenues and gross profit may decline. We have granted CIT Healthcare LLC a security interest in substantially all of our assets, and if we default under our Credit Agreement, CIT may foreclose on our assets. We have secured amounts owing under the Credit Agreement with substantially all of our and our subsidiaries’ assets, including inventory, accounts receivable, general intangibles, and collateral. If we default under the terms of the Credit Agreement, CIT has the right to accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose upon and sell substantially all of our and our subsidiaries’ assets to repay our indebtedness, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our debt may limit our operating flexibility. Our Credit Agreement with CIT requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take specific actions, even if we believe such actions are within the Company’s best interest. Potential effects of our debt on our future operations include, among others: • We must dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to the repayment of our debt, which restricts the cash flow available to us for other purposes; • Our debt covenants may limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and our industry, including acquisition opportunities, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; • We are limited by our debt covenants in our ability to obtain additional financing, which we may need for working capital, capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, or other general corporate purposes; • We are more vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions. We may be unable to integrate successfully the Specialty Infusion business of Biomed and realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. In April 2008, we completed our merger with Biomed. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the growth opportunities from successfully integrating Biomed’s business with our business. The integration of two independent companies can be a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among other factors: • coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities, including complexities associated with managing the combined businesses at separate locations; • integrating specialty pharmaceutical operations that are different from our core specialty pharmaceutical services; • combining the sales force territories and competencies associated with the sale of products presently sold by Biomed; • integrating personnel from different companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high-quality products and customer service; • unforeseen expenses or delays associated with the integration; and • performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management’s attention to the integration. If we are unable to successfully combine the businesses of Biomed and Allion in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the growth anticipated to result from the merger, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. In addition, the integration process could result in the loss of key employees of Biomed, the disruption or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in, our business, inconsistencies between each business’s standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, 27 Table of Contents suppliers and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, or could reduce earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the combined company. In connection with the Biomed merger, we entered into a Transition Services Agreement with the RAM Capital Group, or RAM, whereby RAM agreed to provide us with various financial and administrative services related to the integration. The Transition Services Agreement is set to expire on April 4, 2009 and is subject to continuation upon the parties’ mutual written agreement. If RAM terminates the Transition Services Agreement before we have fully integrated the Biomed business, the transition may require additional management attention and could adversely impact our ability to realize the benefits of the merger. As a result, we may experience a decline in our results of operations. We do not have a contractual relationship with private third-party payors for a significant portion of our Biomed business. As a result, we have no continuing right to receive reimbursement and we are subject to reductions in reimbursement rates, which could have a material adverse effect on revenues. In cases in which we do not have a contractual relationship with an insurance company, we are considered “out-of-network,” and we have no contractual right to payment. Payors with whom we are out-of-network may refuse to reimburse us, which could result in a loss of patients and decrease in our revenues. As an out-of-network provider, reductions in reimbursement rates for non-contracted providers could also adversely affect us. In 2008, approximately one-half of the Biomed business was out-of-network. Third-party payors with whom we do not participate as a contracted provider may also require that we enter into contracts, which may have pricing and other terms that are materially less favorable to us than the terms under which we currently operate. While the number of prescriptions may increase as a result of these contracts, our revenues per prescription may decrease. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for the prescriptions dispensed by our pharmacies, and we could have difficulty obtaining sufficient supply of the drugs to fill those prescriptions. A limited number of manufacturers operating under current Good Manufacturing Practices are capable of manufacturing the drugs dispensed by our pharmacies, and the supply of those drugs is limited by allocations from the manufacturers. Although we believe we have sufficient supply from such manufacturers and we maintain inventory on hand to meet our demand, if our suppliers had problems or delays with their manufacturing operations we may have difficulty obtaining sufficient quantities of the drugs required for our business. If we do not receive sufficient quantities from our current suppliers, we may be unable to identify or obtain our required drugs from alternative manufacturers on commercially reasonable terms or on a timely basis, which would negatively impact our revenues, reputation and business strategy. If our credit terms with AmerisourceBergen become unfavorable or our relationship with AmerisourceBergen is terminated, our business could be adversely affected. In September 2003, we entered into a prime vendor agreement with AmerisourceBergen. The original term of the AmerisourceBergen agreement expired on September 14, 2008. By contract, the term is extended on a month-to-month basis until either party gives at least ninety days prior written notice to the other party of its intention not to extend the agreement. Pursuant to the agreement, we are obligated to purchase at least 95% of the medications we sell from AmerisourceBergen. When we entered into the agreement, we depended on existing credit terms from AmerisourceBergen to meet our working capital needs between the times we purchased medications from AmerisourceBergen and when we received reimbursement or payment from third-party payors. Although we no longer rely on credit terms from our suppliers, in the past our ability to grow has been limited in part by our inability to negotiate favorable credit terms from our suppliers. If our position changes and we again have to rely on credit to meet working capital needs, but are unable to maintain adequate credit terms from AmerisourceBergen or sufficient financing from third-party lenders, we may become limited in our ability to continue to increase the volume of medications we need to fill prescriptions. There are only a few alternative wholesale distributors from which we can purchase the medications we offer to HIV/AIDS patients. In the event that our prime vendor agreement with AmerisourceBergen terminates 28 Table of Contents or is not renewed, we might not be able to enter into a new agreement with another wholesale distributor on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us. Our inability to enter into a new supply agreement may cause a shortage of the supply of medications we keep in stock, or we may be required to accept pricing and credit terms from a vendor that are less favorable to us than those we have with AmerisourceBergen. We have a history of losses and may not be able to sustain profitability. We achieved profitability for the first time in the first quarter of 2005; however, we may not be able to maintain profitability on a regular basis. If we fail to maintain profitability, your investment in our stock could result in a significant or total loss. Our predecessor company, The Care Group, Inc., filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in September 1998. We emerged from bankruptcy in February 1999 and experienced operating losses from that time until the first quarter of 2005. If we are not able to market our services effectively to HIV/AIDS clinics, their affiliated healthcare providers and PDPs, we may not be able to grow our patient base as rapidly as we have anticipated. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and maintain relationships with HIV/AIDS clinics and their affiliated healthcare providers because each is an important patient referral source for our business. In addition, we also have to maintain and continue to establish relationships with PDPs so we can continue to fill prescriptions for our dual eligible customers who receive prescription drug coverage under Medicare Part D. If we are unable to market our services effectively to these clinics, healthcare providers and PDPs, or if our existing relationships with clinics and providers are terminated, our ability to grow our patient base will be harmed, which could significantly reduce our net sales and our ability to maintain profitability. Additionally, Medicare Part D regulations that strictly limit our ability to market to our current and new patients may limit our ability to maintain and grow our current patient base. If we fail to manage our growth or implement changes to our reporting systems effectively, our business could be harmed. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we could incur losses. How we manage our growth will depend, among other things, on our ability to adapt our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures to the demands of a larger business, including the demands of integrating our acquisitions. To manage the growth and increasing complexity of our business, we may make modifications to or replace computer and other reporting systems, including those that report on our financial results and on which we are substantially dependent. We may incur significant financial and resource costs as a result of any such modifications or replacements, and our business may be subject to transitional difficulties. The difficulties associated with any such implementation, and any failure or delay in the system implementation, could negatively affect our internal control over financial reporting and harm our business and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to successfully hire, train and manage additional sales, marketing, customer support and pharmacists quickly enough to support our growth. To provide this support, we may need to open additional offices, which will result in additional burdens on our systems and resources and require additional capital expenditures. Our success in identifying and integrating acquisitions may impact our business and our ability to have effective disclosure controls. As part of our strategy, we continually evaluate acquisition opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will complete any future acquisitions or that such transactions, if completed, will be integrated successfully or will contribute favorably to our operations and financial condition. The integration of acquisitions includes ensuring that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting effectively apply to and address the operations of newly acquired businesses. We may be required to change our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting to accommodate newly acquired operations, and we may also be required to remediate historic weaknesses or deficiencies at acquired businesses. For example, the auditors of Specialty Pharmacies, Inc., or SPI, a company we acquired in 2005, identified certain material weaknesses in SPI’s internal controls in connection with its audit of the SPI’s 2004 29 Table of Contents financial statement. The auditors stated that SPI needed to implement an improved accounting system and implement better controls to segregate duties regarding the cash disbursements and cash receipts functions of SPI. Based on the audit letter and our own evaluation of SPI’s internal controls, we took a number of remedial steps, including increasing the number of persons (and making changes in the persons) who are primarily responsible for performing the accounting and financial duties at SPI. Our review and evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting of the companies we acquire may take time and require additional expense, and if they are not effective on a timely basis, could adversely affect our business and the market’s perception of our company. In addition, acquisitions may expose us to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired businesses, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare or reimbursement laws. While we try to negotiate indemnification provisions that we consider to be appropriate for the acquisitions, there can be no assurance that liabilities relating to the prior operations of acquired companies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, future acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, incurrence of additional debt, and amortization of expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third-party delivery services to deliver our products to the patients we serve. Price increases or service interruptions in our delivery services could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make deliveries on a timely basis. Delivery is essential to our operations and represents a significant expense in the operation of our business that we cannot pass on to our customers. As a result, any significant increase in delivery rates, including as a result of an increase in the price of gasoline, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Similarly, strikes or other service interruptions in these delivery services would adversely affect our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis. In addition, some of the medications we ship require special handling, such as refrigeration to maintain temperatures within certain ranges. The spoilage of one or more shipments of our products could adversely affect our business or potentially result in damage claims being made against us. We rely on a few key employees whose absence or loss could adversely affect our business. Many key responsibilities within our business have been assigned to a small number of employees. The loss of their services could adversely affect our business. In particular, the loss of the services of our executive officers — Michael P. Moran, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President; Russell J. Fichera, our Chief Financial Officer, Stephen A. Maggio, our Secretary and Treasurer; Anthony Luna, our Vice President, HIV Sales; or Robert Fleckenstein, our Vice President, Pharmacy Operations — could disrupt our operations. We have employment agreements in place with each of our executive officers. However, any existing employment agreements or any employee agreement that we may enter into will not assure the retention of an employee. In addition, we do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our employees and are not insured against any losses resulting from the death of our key employees. Failure to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified technical operating and professional staff, including experienced pharmacists and nurses. We rely on specialized pharmacists to dispense the prescriptions and treatment regimens at our pharmacies, as well as for consultations and to provide education, counseling, treatment coordination, clinical information and compliance monitoring to our customers. Additionally, more than half of our Specialty Infusion business requires the services of a nurse to administer prescriptions. Competition for these employees is strong, and if we are not able to attract and retain qualified personnel without significant cost increases, we may not be able to sustain or grow our business and our revenues may be adversely affected. 30 Table of Contents A prolonged malfunction of our MOMSPak automated packaging system could hurt our relationships with the patients we serve and our ability to grow. We rely on our MOMSPak packaging system to create the MOMSPak for dispensing patient medication. We expect that prescriptions packaged in a MOMSPak will increase substantially in the future as more of the patients who we serve switch to the MOMSPak from traditional packaging system pill boxes and as the number of patients and prescriptions that we fill increases. We currently own our MOMSPak machines. If these machines fail to function properly for a prolonged period, we may have to fill prescriptions by hand using pill boxes or by otherwise sorting the various drug combinations into individual doses. Delays or failure to package medications by our MOMSPak packaging system could result in the loss of a substantial portion of our patients who receive their prescriptions in MOMSPaks. Approximately 15% of our patients currently receive the MOMSPak. Our financial results may suffer if we have to write off intangible assets or goodwill. As a result of our acquisitions, a significant portion of our total assets consist of intangible assets (including goodwill). Intangible assets, net of amortization, and goodwill together accounted for approximately 69% and 55% of the total assets on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. We may engage in additional acquisitions, which may result in our recognition of additional intangible assets and goodwill. We amortize intangible assets over a period of five to fifteen years and do not amortize goodwill. We may not realize the full fair value of our intangible assets and goodwill. We evaluate on a regular basis whether all or a portion of our goodwill and intangible assets may be impaired. One indicator of impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets would include a prolonged period of our market capitalization at less than our book value. Under current accounting rules, any determination that impairment has occurred would require us to write off the impaired portion of goodwill and such intangible assets, resulting in a charge to our earnings. Such a write-off could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We do not have patent or trademark protection for our MOMSPak, our automated prescription packaging system or for our trade name, MOMS Pharmacy. We believe that several components of our ability to compete effectively include our MOMSPak package, created by our MOMSPak automated prescription packaging system, and our trade name, MOMS Pharmacy. We developed our MOMSPak packaging system with software and other technology that we license from third-parties. We have not attempted to obtain patent protection for our MOMSPak packaging system, and we do not intend to do so in the future. As a consequence, our competitors may develop technology that is substantially equivalent to our MOMSPak system, and we could not prevent them from doing so. If our competitors or other third parties were able to recreate the MOMSPak, one of our competitive advantages in serving HIV/AIDS patients could be lost. In addition, we do not have trademark protections for our automated packaging system, our MOMSPak package or our MOMS Pharmacy name, and there is no guarantee that if we were to decide to seek protection, we would be able to obtain it. Unauthorized parties may attempt to use our name, or copy or otherwise obtain and use, our customized packaging solution or technology. We do not have any confidentiality agreements with any of our collaborative partners, employees or consultants that would prevent them from disclosing our trade secrets. There can be no assurance that we will have adequate remedies for any misuse or misappropriation of our trade secrets. If we are not adequately protected, other companies with sufficient resources and expertise could quickly develop competing products, which could materially harm our business. A disruption in our telephone system or our computer system could harm our business. We receive and take most prescription orders over the telephone and by facsimile. We also rely extensively upon our computer system to confirm payor information, patient eligibility and authorizations; to check on medication interactions and patient medication history; to facilitate filling and labeling prescriptions for delivery and billing; and to help with the collection of payments. Our success depends, in part, upon our 31 Table of Contents ability to promptly fill and deliver complex prescription orders as well as on our ability to provide reimbursement management services for our patients and their healthcare providers. Any continuing disruption in our telephone, facsimile or computer systems could adversely affect our ability to receive and process prescription orders, make deliveries on a timely basis and receive reimbursement from our payors. This could adversely affect our relations with the patients and healthcare providers we serve and potentially result in a partial reduction in orders from, or a complete loss of, these patients. Our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by volatile and illiquid market conditions. We have an investment portfolio that we manage in accordance with our internal policies and procedures. Our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by market fluctuations including, without limitation, changes in interest rates and overall market liquidity. Certain markets have been experiencing disruptions in market liquidity and the lack of a secondary market may adversely affect the valuation of certain investments. There have been recent auction market liquidity failures and at present there is no official estimate of when liquidity will be restored to the market. As of December 31, 2008, we held approximately $2.2 million of auction rate securities. Risks Related to the Specialty Pharmacy Industry There is substantial competition in our industry, and we may not be able to compete successfully. The specialty pharmacy industry is highly competitive and is continuing to become more competitive. All of the medications, supplies and services that we provide are also available from our competitors. Our current and potential competitors may include: • Other specialty pharmacy distributors; • Specialty pharmacy divisions of wholesale drug distributors; • Pharmacy benefit-management companies; • Hospital-based pharmacies; • Local infusion providers; • Other retail pharmacies; • Manufacturers that sell their products both to distributors and directly to clinics and physicians’ offices; and • Hospital-based care centers and other alternate-site healthcare providers. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and marketing staffs and more established operations and infrastructure than we have. A significant factor in effective competition will be our ability to maintain and expand our relationships with patients, healthcare providers and government and private payors. If we are found to be in violation of Medicaid and Medicare reimbursement regulations, we could become subject to retroactive adjustments and recoupments, or exclusion from the Medicaid and Medicare programs. As a Medicaid and Medicare provider, we are subject to retroactive adjustments due to prior-year audits, reviews and investigations, government fraud and abuse initiatives, and other similar actions. Federal regulations provide for withholding payments to recoup amounts payable under the programs and, in certain circumstances, allow for exclusion from Medicaid and Medicare. While we believe we are in material compliance with applicable Medicaid and Medicare reimbursement regulations, there can be no assurance that we, pursuant to such audits, reviews, investigations, or other proceedings, will be found to be in compliance in all respects with such reimbursement regulations. A determination that we are in violation of any such reimbursement regulations could result in retroactive adjustments and recoupments of payments and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a Medicaid and Medicare 32 Table of Contents provider, we are also subject to routine, unscheduled audits that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, should an audit result in a negative finding, and we can offer no assurance that future Medicaid and Medicare audits will not result in a negative finding. We have been advised by the Office of the Medicaid Inspector General for the State of New York, which we refer to as the NY State Auditors, in a letter dated August 21, 2008, that the NY State Auditors will conduct a review of the records that support our billings to the New York Medicaid program. This routine audit began in November 2008, with the period under review for the years 2005 through 2007. We are still awaiting the completion of this audit, including an exit conference to discuss any audit findings. Although we believe that our records support our New York Medicaid billings, if the audit were to have a negative outcome, we could be required to make reimbursement repayments, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and noncompliance by us or our suppliers could harm our business. The repackaging, marketing, sale, and purchase of medications are extensively regulated by federal and state governments. As a provider of pharmacy services, our operations are subject to complex and evolving federal and state laws and regulations enforced by federal and state governmental agencies, including, but not limited to, the federal Controlled Substances Act, the False Claims Act, federal and state Anti-Kickback laws, HIPAA, the Stark Law, the federal Civil Monetary Penalty Law, the PDMA, the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and various other state pharmacy laws and regulations. In addition, many of the HIV/AIDS medications that we sell receive greater attention from law enforcement officials than those medications that are most often dispensed by traditional pharmacies due to the high cost of HIV/AIDS medications and the potential for illegal use. If we fail to, or are accused of failing to, comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to penalties that may include exclusion from the Medicare or Medicaid programs, fines, requirements to change our practices, and civil or criminal penalties, which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Any disqualification from participating in Medicare or the state Medicaid programs would significantly reduce our net sales and our ability to maintain profitability. Our business could also be harmed if the entities with which we contract or have business relationships, such as pharmaceutical manufacturers, distributors, physicians, HIV/AIDS clinics, or home health agencies are accused of violating laws or regulations. While we believe we are operating our business in substantial compliance with existing legal requirements material to the operation of our business, there are significant uncertainties involving the application of many of these legal requirements to our business. Changes in interpretation or enforcement policies could subject our current practices to allegation of impropriety or illegality. The applicable regulatory framework is complex and evolving, and the laws are very broad in scope. Many of the laws remain open to interpretation and have not been addressed by substantive court decisions to clarify their meaning. We are also unable to predict what additional federal or state legislation or regulatory initiatives may be enacted in the future relating to our business or the healthcare industry in general, or what effect any such legislation or regulation might have on us. Further, we cannot provide any assurance that federal or state governments will not impose additional restrictions or adopt interpretations of existing laws that could increase our cost of compliance with such laws or reduce our ability to remain profitable. Federal and state investigations and enforcement actions continue to focus on the healthcare industry, scrutinizing a wide range of items such as referral and billing practices, product discount arrangements, dissemination of confidential patient information, clinical drug research trials, pharmaceutical marketing programs, and gifts for patients. It is difficult to predict how any of the laws implicated in these investigations and enforcement actions may be interpreted to apply to our business. Any future investigation may cause publicity, regardless of the eventual result of the investigation, or its underlying merits, that would cause potential patients to avoid us, reducing our net sales and profits and causing our stock price to decline. 33 Table of Contents Changes in industry pricing benchmarks could adversely affect the reimbursement we receive for drugs we dispense and, as a result, negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Historically, government payors, such as ADAP and Medicaid, which account for a large percentage of our net sales, paid us directly or indirectly for the medications we provide at AWP or at a percentage of AWP. Private payors with whom we may contract also reimburse us for medications at AWP or at a percentage of AWP. Federal and state government attention has focused on the validity of using AWP as the basis for Medicaid and Medicare Part D payments for HIV/AIDS medications. Drug pricing and the validity of AWP continues to be a focus of litigation and governmental investigations. A number of state governments have brought, and are continuing to bring, lawsuits against drug manufacturers and publishers of pricing compendia over AWP issues. Specifically, many of these lawsuits claim that the manufacturers’ alleged inflation of the AWPs reported to the publishing companies, and the publishing companies’ alleged publication of inflated AWPs, have resulted in overcharges to patients and payors, including the state Medicaid programs. Some of these lawsuits have resulted in large settlements or in compensatory and punitive damages. While we cannot predict the outcomes of any pending cases, any reductions in the AWPs reported by manufacturers and published in pricing compendia that may result from these cases could potentially reduce the price paid to us for medications we dispense, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. These cases may also result in the elimination of AWP as a pricing benchmark altogether, and our reimbursement from government and private payors may be based on less favorable pricing benchmarks in the future, which would have a negative impact on our net sales. Regardless of the outcome of these cases, we believe that government and private payors will continue to evaluate pricing benchmarks other than AWP as the basis for prescription drug reimbursements. Payments to pharmacies for Medicaid-covered outpatient prescription drugs are set by the states, and most state Medicaid programs now pay substantially less than the AWP for the prescription drugs we dispense. In addition, federal reimbursement to states for the federal share of those payments is subject to the FUL. The DRA changed the FUL for multiple source drugs to 250% of the AMP as of January 1, 2007. However, MIPPA, which was enacted on July 15, 2008, delayed the implementation of this AMP-based methodology for calculating FULs until October 1, 2009. Until that time, FULs will continue to be calculated at an amount equal to 150% of the published price for the least costly therapeutic alternative. On July 6, 2007, CMS issued final regulations that (1) defined what will be considered a “multiple source drug,” and (2) defined “AMP” by identifying the categories of drug sales that would be used to calculate AMP. In commentary to the final regulations, CMS indicated that it intended to post on the agency’s website the AMPs reported to CMS by manufacturers, in order to implement the DRA’s requirements regarding AMP publication. The final regulations became effective October 1, 2007. While CMS issued the final regulations in a final rule with comment period, CMS has not yet responded to comments submitted to the agency on the rule. The first publication of AMP data and the resulting FULs was scheduled to occur in December of 2007. However, on December 19, 2007, NACDS and NCPA sought and were granted a preliminary injunction in U.S. District Court, which halted CMS’ implementation of its AMP regulations and the posting of any AMP data. In their complaint, the two pharmacy groups allege that the AMP regulations go beyond what Congress intended when it passed the Social Security Act. Specifically, the lawsuit alleges, in part, that (1) in defining “AMP,” CMS included categories of drug sales that exceed the plain language of the Social Security Act, and (2) CMS’ definition of “multiple source drugs” is impermissibly broad and, in some respects, contrary to the Social Security Act. On March 14, 2008, CMS issued an interim final rule revising its definition of “multiple source drug” to address an issue raised in the NACDS/NCPA lawsuit. On October 7, 2008, CMS published its final rule on the definition of “multiple source drug,” and on November 5, 2008, NACDS and NCPA filed an amended complaint challenging both the interim and the final versions of this rule (and maintaining their existing challenges to the AMP regulations). At this time, the preliminary injunction remains in effect. The scheduling conference for this case, formerly set for February 25, 2009, has been continued, with the parties directed to advise the court by May 15, 2009 if there is a need for a scheduling conference. 34 Table of Contents In addition to the NACDS/NCPA injunction, MIPPA delayed certain provisions of this final rule until October 1, 2009. However, if the preliminary injunction is lifted and CMS is ultimately allowed to implement the AMP regulations after the delay imposed by MIPPA expires on September 30, 2009, the AMP final regulations could adversely impact our revenues. We continue to review the potential impact that the DRA and the AMP regulations may have on our business, but we are not yet able to fully assess their impact on our business or profitability. However, the use of AMP in the FUL may have the effect of reducing the reimbursement rates for certain medications that we currently dispense or may dispense in the future. Further, while states are not required to use AMP to set payment amounts, states may elect to base all Medicaid pharmacy reimbursement on AMP instead of other published prices on which they have historically based Medicaid pharmacy reimbursement, such as AWP. If the individual states make this decision, it may also have the effect of reducing the reimbursement rates for certain medications that we currently dispense or may dispense in the future. Further, the Obama Administration could rescind the AMP regulations and issue new regulations in their place. We cannot predict the content of such regulations, if issued, though any such action could have a significant adverse effect on our business or profitability. Our revenues may continue to be adversely affected in connection with reduced reimbursement rates for patients who are “dual-eligible” under the Medicare Part D program. Beginning January 1, 2006, under Medicare Part D, PDPs, and not Medicaid, began to make reimbursements for the prescription drugs provided to dual eligible patients. Reimbursement rates for these patients are generally less favorable than the rates received from Medicaid and result in lower gross margins for dual eligible patients. In December 2008, we serviced 3,390 patients under Medicare Part D, which totaled approximately 20.3% of our patients. Our earnings have been negatively impacted from the movement of our patients from Medicaid to a Medicare Part D plan. If a higher number of our patients become eligible to have their prescription drug coverage transferred from Medicaid to PDPs, there is a risk that our gross margins will decline further and negatively impact earnings. Our business could be affected by reforms in the healthcare industry. Healthcare reform measures have been considered by Congress and other federal and state bodies during recent years. The intent of the proposals generally has been to reduce healthcare costs and the growth of total healthcare expenditures, and to eliminate fraud, waste and financial abuse. Comprehensive healthcare reform may be considered and efforts to enact reform bills are likely to continue. These changes are occurring on a fast-paced basis, and it is impossible to predict the extent or substance of the changes. For example, in 2005, Florida approved a sweeping change to its Medicaid program that shifts from the traditional Medicaid “defined benefit” plan to a “defined contribution” plan, under which the state sets a limit on spending for each recipient. Under the program, Medicaid enrollees enrolled in, or were automatically enrolled in, private health plans, which have the authority to manage the enrollees’ Medicaid healthcare benefit. Other states are considering implementing such a change to the administration of their Medicaid programs. We are unable to predict the likelihood that any healthcare reform legislation or similar legislation will be enacted into law or the effects that any such legislation would have on our business. We may not be able to obtain insurance that is sufficient to protect our business from liability. Our business exposes us to risks inherent in the provision of drugs and related services. In recent years, participants in the healthcare industry have become subject to an increasing number of lawsuits, many of which involve large claims and significant defense costs. Claims, lawsuits or complaints relating to our products and services may be asserted against us in the future. Although we currently maintain professional and general liability insurance, there can be no assurance that the scope of coverage or limits of such insurance will be adequate to protect us against future claims. In addition, our insurance policies must be renewed annually. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. 35 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 