Item 1A. Risk Factors The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially harm our business and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Company If demand for our products and services is reduced, our business and ability to grow would be harmed. A reduction in demand for HIV/AIDS medications would significantly harm our business as we would not be able to shift quickly our business to provide medications for other diseases. Reduced demand for our products and services could be caused by a number of circumstances, such as: • a cure or vaccine for HIV/AIDS; • the emergence of a new strain of HIV that is resistant to available HIV/AIDS medications; • shifts to treatment regimens other than those we offer; • new methods of delivery of existing HIV/AIDS medications that do not require our specialty pharmacy and disease management services; • recalls of HIV/AIDS medications we sell; • adverse reactions caused by the HIV/AIDS medications we sell; • the expiration or challenge to the drug patents of the HIV/AIDS medications we sell; or • competing treatment from a new HIV/AIDS medication or a new use of an existing HIV/AIDS medication. Changes in reimbursement by third-party payors could harm our business. The price we receive for our products depends primarily on the reimbursement rates paid by our government and private payors. In 2005, we generated approximately 87% of our net sales from patients who rely on Medicaid and ADAP, for reimbursement. In recent years, these programs have reduced reimbursement to providers. Changes to the programs themselves, the amounts the programs pay, or coverage limitations established by the programs for the medications we sell, may reduce our earnings. For example, these programs could revise their pricing methodology for the medications we sell, decide not to cover certain medications or cover only a certain number of units prescribed within a specified time period. We are likely to experience some form of revised drug pricing as ADAP and Medicaid expenditures for HIV/AIDS medications have garnered significant attention from government agencies during the past few years. Any reduction in amounts reimbursable by government programs for our services or changes in regulations governing such reimbursements could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we are disqualified from participating in the state Medicaid programs of New York, New Jersey, California, Florida or Washington, our net sales and our ability to maintain profitability would be dramatically reduced. We are also dependent on reimbursement from private payors. Many payors seek to limit the number of providers that supply drugs to their enrollees. From time to time, private payors with which we have relationships require that we and our competitors bid to keep their business, and there can be no assurance that we will be retained or that our margins will not be adversely affected when that rebidding occurs. Our revenues could be adversely affected if our patients who are “dual-eligible” under the Medicare Modernization Act cease to use our services or if prescription drug plans, or PDPs, reduce reimbursement rates. Part D of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or the MMA, presents a number of potential risks and uncertainties to our business and financial operations that we are 21 Table of Contents continuing to assess and for which we may not have better information until the end of the first quarter of 2006, after Part D takes effect and we have had several months to fill prescriptions for dual eligible patients. These risks include: • Not being able to determine the exact number of patients we serve who currently receive Medicaid coverage and are also eligible for Medicare, or are “dual eligible;” • Reimbursement rates with PDPs may be less than the rates we have historically received for our services; • Having no assurance that all of our patients who are dual eligible will enroll in or be assigned automatically to PDPs with which we have a contract, or will choose our services over another pharmacy which has a contract with the PDP in which the patient is enrolled; • Regulations that strictly limit our ability to market to our current and new patients, which may limit our ability to maintain and grow our current patient base; • Disruption to our payments and services from the implementation of Part D; • The possibility that Part D may not cover all the medications or services needed for persons with HIV/AIDS, including those we have provided historically to our patients; and • Increased administrative expenses in implementing Part D and transitioning our dual eligible patients to PDPs with which we have a reimbursement agreement. We have a history of losses and may not be able to sustain profitability. We achieved profitability for the first time in the first quarter of 2005 but we may not be able to maintain profitability on a regular basis. If we fail to maintain profitability, your investment in our stock could result in a significant or total loss. Our predecessor company, The Care Group, Inc., filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in September 1998. We emerged from bankruptcy in February 1999 and, since that time experienced operating losses prior to the first quarter of 2005. If we do not continue to qualify for preferred reimbursement programs in California and New York, our net sales could decline. We have qualified for additional reimbursement rates under a California pilot program for HIV/AIDS pharmacies that is effective until January 1, 2008 and have qualified as a specialty HIV pharmacy in New York and are eligible to receive preferred reimbursement rates for HIV/AIDS medications that we sell in New York until March 31, 2006. As of September 1, 2004, reimbursement rates for pharmacy services provided under Medi-Cal, the Medicaid reimbursement program administered in California, were reduced as part of the passage of the State of California budget. On September 28, 2004, California approved an HIV/AIDS Pharmacy Pilot Program bill that funds an additional $9.50 fee per prescription for qualified and participating HIV pharmacies through January 1, 2008, unless extended. In New York, reimbursement rates for pharmacy services provided under Medicaid were reduced in September 2004. Through March 31, 2006, we will continue to be reimbursed at the higher rate that was in place before the 2004 reimbursement reduction. There can be no assurance that the California or New York legislatures will not change these programs in a manner adverse to us or will not terminate early or elect not to renew these programs. If either of these programs are not renewed or are terminated early, our net sales and profit could be adversely affected. Additionally, if either California or New York permits additional companies to take advantage of these additional reimbursement programs, our competitive advantage in these states could be adversely impacted. 22 Table of Contents If we are not able to market our services effectively to HIV/AIDS clinics, their affiliated healthcare providers and PDPs, we may not be able to grow our patient base as rapidly as we have anticipated. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and maintain relationships with HIV/AIDS clinics and their affiliated healthcare providers because each is an important patient referral source for our business. In addition, we will also have to maintain and continue to establish relationships with PDPs, so we can continue to fill prescriptions for our dual eligible customers who, beginning January 1, 2006, will now receive prescription drug coverage under Medicare Part D. If we are unable to market effectively our services to these clinics, healthcare providers and PDPs, or if our existing relationships with clinics and providers are terminated, our ability to grow our patient base will be harmed which could dramatically reduce our net sales and our ability to maintain profitability. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business could be harmed. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we could incur losses. How we manage our growth will depend, among other things, on our ability to adapt our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures to the demands of a larger business. In addition, we may not be able to successfully hire, train and manage additional sales, marketing, customer support and pharmacists quickly enough to support our growth. To provide this support, we may need to open additional offices, which will result in additional burdens on our systems and resources and require additional capital expenditures. If our credit terms with AmerisourceBergen become unfavorable or our relationship with AmerisourceBergen is terminated our business could be adversely affected. In September 2003, we entered into a five-year prime vendor agreement with AmerisourceBergen under which we currently purchase almost 100% of our prescription medications. Pursuant to the agreement, we are obligated to purchase at least 95% of the medications we sell from AmerisourceBergen. We also depend on the existing credit terms from AmerisourceBergen to meet our working capital needs between the time we purchase medications from AmerisourceBergen and when we receive reimbursement or payment from third party payors. In the past, our ability to grow has been limited in part by our inability to negotiate favorable credit terms from our suppliers. We may become limited in our ability to continue to increase the volume of medications we need to fill prescriptions if we are unable to maintain adequate credit terms from AmerisourceBergen or, alternatively, if we are unable to obtain financing from third-party lenders to support the amount of prescription medications we need to purchase in the future. There are only a few alternative wholesale distributors from whom we can purchase the medications we offer to HIV/AIDS patients. In the event that our prime vendor agreement with AmerisourceBergen terminates or is not renewed, we might not be able to enter into a new agreement with another wholesale distributor on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us. Our inability to enter into a new supply agreement may cause a shortage of the supply of medications we keep in stock or we may be required to accept pricing and credit terms from a vendor that are less favorable to us than those we have with AmerisourceBergen. If we do not meet our minimum purchase requirements under our prime vendor agreement with AmerisourceBergen, we will be required to make an additional payment based on the un-purchased volume. Our prime vendor agreement with AmerisourceBergen requires us to make minimum purchases during the five-year term of the agreement that will be no less than $400 million. If we do not meet the minimum purchase commitments as set forth in the agreement at the end of the term, we will be required to pay an amount equal to 0.20% of the un-purchased volume. We also would be required to pay this amount in the event we terminate our prime vendor agreement with AmerisourceBergen without cause or in the event we default under the agreement. If we were required to make this payment, we would incur a possibly significant expense without any corresponding net sales. 23 Table of Contents We will incur increased costs as a result of being a public company and, as a result, our financial results could be adversely affected. As a public company, we are required to devote additional internal and external resources to various governance and compliance matters to comply with the laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, regulations and The NASDAQ National Market rules. As a result, we intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and in addition we expect to have increased general and administrative expenses. Because we have a relatively small corporate staff, we will rely heavily on outside professional advisers to assist us with these efforts. As a result, we expect to incur additional operating expenses in the future. These costs will include consulting and increased accounting-related fees associated with evaluating, testing and preparing the attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The way in which these laws, regulations and standards are applied and implemented may change over time, which could result in even higher costs to address and implement revisions to compliance and governance practices. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed and we could be exposed to potential liability. In addition, the corporate governance rules and regulations for public companies may make obtaining director and officer liability insurance more expensive, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, attracting and retaining qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers may be more difficult. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to annually assess, test, and evaluate the design and operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or ICFR. We have concluded that our ICFR was not effective as of December 31, 2005, as management identified a material weakness due to an omission of a non-cash interest expense (below the “operating income” line) relating to warrants to purchase 100,000 shares of the Company’s common stock that were issued to an outside director of the Company in April 2005 in connection with the extension of a guarantee on the Company’s West Bank credit facility and to warrants to purchase 40,000 shares of the Company’s common stock that were issued as part of a private placement with an institutional accredited investor in May 2005. As such, we will be required to change our ICFR to remediate this and potentially other deficiencies identified in the future, which may result in lost investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, and may subject us to investigation and/or sanctions, by regulatory authorities. Based on this and other factors, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our ICFR on a going forward basis, as such standards are modified, supplemented, or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404, and our independent auditors may not be able to render the required attestation concerning our assessment and the effectiveness of our ICFR. If we fail to maintain an effective internal control environment or our independent auditors are unable to render the required attestation, it could have a material adverse effect on investor confidence in our reported financial information. Any such events could adversely affect our financial results and/or the market price of our common stock. Our success in identifying and integrating acquisitions may impact our business and our ability to have effective disclosure controls. As part of our strategy, we continually evaluate acquisition opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will complete any future acquisitions or that such transactions, if completed, will be integrated successfully or will contribute favorably to our operations and financial condition. The integration of acquisitions includes ensuring that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting effectively apply to and address the operations of newly acquired businesses. We may be required to change our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting to accommodate newly acquired 24 Table of Contents operations, and we may also be required to remediate historic weaknesses or deficiencies at acquired businesses. For example, the auditors of Specialty identified certain material weaknesses in Specialty’s internal controls in connection with its audit of the 2004 financial statement of Specialty. The auditors stated that Specialty needed to implement an improved accounting system and implement better controls to segregate duties regarding the cash disbursements and cash receipts functions of Specialty. Based on this letter and our own evaluation of Specialty’s internal controls, we have taken a number of remedial steps, including increasing the number of persons (and making changes in the persons) who are primarily responsible for performing the accounting and financial duties at Specialty. Our review and evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting of the companies we acquire may take time and require additional expense, and if they are not effective on a timely basis could adversely affect our business and the market’s perception of our company. In addition, acquisitions may expose us to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired businesses, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare or reimbursement laws. While we try to negotiate indemnification provisions that we consider to be appropriate for the transactions, there can be no assurance that liabilities relating to the prior operations of acquired companies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, future acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, incurrence of additional debt, and amortization of expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to integrate successfully the LabTracker software into our business or LabTracker subscribers may choose not to use our services. There is no guarantee that we will be able to interface the LabTracker software successfully with our and Oris Medical’s existing systems. There is also no guarantee that the physicians or clinics currently using the LabTracker software will use our services, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to attract new customers by marketing this software. Pursuant to the terms of the license agreement between Oris Medical and Ground Zero, we gained an exclusive right in the U.S. to develop and offer a pharmacy interface to users of LabTracker, a leading patient monitoring software for physicians and clinics that treat HIV/AIDS patients. If the license is invalid or otherwise does not grant sufficient rights to continue to use the derivative works created by Oris from the underlying LabTracker software, our business could be materially adversely affected. As a result of our acquisition of Oris Medical, we are required to make royalty payments based on the number of our patients submitting their prescriptions through LabTracker. If we fail to meet such payment obligations, the license to interface with the LabTracker software for HIV/AIDS may become nonexclusive or terminable by the licensor, and such a change could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We rely on third-party delivery services to deliver our products to the patients we serve. Price increases or service interruptions in our delivery services could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make deliveries on a timely basis. Delivery is essential to our operations and represents a significant expense in the operation of our business that we cannot pass on to our customers. As a result, any significant increase in delivery rates, for example, as a result of an increase in the price of gasoline could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Similarly, strikes or other service interruptions in these delivery services would adversely affect our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis. In addition, some of the medications we ship require special handling, including refrigeration to maintain temperatures within certain ranges. The spoilage of one or more shipments of our products could adversely affect our business or potentially result in damage claims being made against us. We rely on a few key employees whose absence or loss could adversely affect our business. Many key responsibilities within our business have been assigned to a small number of employees. The loss of their services could adversely affect our business. In particular, the loss of the services of our named executive officers—Michael P. Moran, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, James G. Spencer, our 25 Table of Contents Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer, Mikelynn Salthouse, our Vice President, Oris Sales, or Robert Fleckenstein, our Vice President, Pharmacy Operations—could disrupt our operations. We do not have employment contracts with any of our named executives and none of Messrs. Moran, Spencer and Fleckenstein are restricted from competing with us if they cease working for us. Additionally, as a practical matter, any employment agreement we may enter into will not assure the retention of such employee. In addition, we do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our employees. As a result, we are not insured against any losses resulting from the death of our key employees. Further, as we grow we must be able to attract and retain other qualified technical operating and professional staff, such as pharmacists. If we cannot attract and retain, on acceptable terms, the qualified employees necessary for the continued development of our business, we may not be able to sustain our business or grow. A prolonged malfunction of our MOMSPak automated packaging system could hurt our relationships with the patients we serve and our ability to grow. We rely on our MOMSPak packaging system to create the MOMSPak for dispensing patient medication. We expect that prescriptions packaged in a MOMSPak will increase substantially in the future as more of the patients we serve switch to the MOMSPak from traditional packaging system pill boxes and as the number of patients and prescriptions we fill increases. We currently lease MOMSPak machines. If these machines fail to function properly for a prolonged period, we may have to fill prescriptions by hand using pill boxes or by otherwise sorting the various drug combinations into individual doses. Delays or failure to package medications by our MOMSPak packaging system could result in our loss of a substantial portion of our patients who receive their prescriptions in MOMSPaks. Our financial results may suffer if we have to write-off intangible assets or goodwill. As a result of our acquisitions, a significant portion of our total assets consist of intangible assets (including goodwill). Intangible assets, net of amortization, and goodwill together accounted for approximately 46% and 31% of the total assets on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Under current accounting standards we are able to amortize intangible assets over a period of five to fifteen years and do not amortize goodwill. We may not realize the full fair value of our intangible assets and goodwill. We expect to engage in additional acquisitions that may result in our recognition of additional intangible assets and goodwill. We evaluate on a regular basis whether all or a portion of our goodwill and those intangible assets may be impaired. Under current accounting rules, any determination that impairment has occurred would require us to write-off the impaired portion of goodwill and such intangible assets, resulting in a charge to our earnings. Such a write off could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We do not have patent or trademark protection for our MOMSPak or our automated prescription packaging system, or for our trade name, MOMS Pharmacy. We believe that several components of our ability to compete effectively include our MOMSPak package, created by our MOMSPak automated prescription packaging system, and our trade name, MOMS Pharmacy. We developed our MOMSPak packaging system with software and other technology that we licensed from third- parties. We have not attempted to obtain patent protection for our MOMSPak packaging system, and we do not intend to do so in the future. As a consequence, our competitors may develop technology that is substantially equivalent to our MOMSPak system, and we could not prevent them from doing so. If our competitors or other third parties were able to recreate the MOMSPak, one of our competitive advantages in serving HIV/AIDS patients could be lost. In addition, we do not have trademark protections for either our automated packaging system, our MOMSPak package or our MOMS Pharmacy name, and there is no guarantee that if we were to decide to seek protection, we would be able to obtain it. Unauthorized parties may attempt to use our name or copy or otherwise obtain and use our customized packaging solution or technology. We do not have any confidentiality agreements with any of our collaborative partners, employees or consultants that would prevent them from disclosing our trade secrets. There can be no 26 Table of Contents assurance that we will have adequate remedies for any misuse or misappropriation of our trade secrets. If we are not adequately protected, other companies with sufficient resources and expertise could quickly develop competing products which could materially harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. A disruption in our telephone system or our computer system could harm our business. We receive and take prescription orders over the telephone, by facsimile or through our electronic prescription writer. We also rely extensively upon our computer system to confirm payor information, patient eligibility and authorizations; to check on medication interactions and patient medication history; to facilitate filling and labeling prescriptions for delivery and billing; and, to help with the collection of payments. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to promptly fill and deliver complex prescription orders as well as on our ability to provide reimbursement management services for our patients and their healthcare providers. Any continuing disruption in our telephone, facsimile or computer systems could adversely affect our ability to receive and process prescription orders, make deliveries on a timely basis and receive reimbursement from our payors. This could adversely affect our relations with the patients and healthcare providers we serve and potentially result in a partial reduction in orders from, or a complete loss of, these patients. We may not be able to obtain insurance that is sufficient to protect our business from liability. Our business exposes us to risks inherent in the provision of drugs and related services. Claims, lawsuits or complaints relating to our products and services may be asserted against us in the future. Although we currently maintain professional and general liability insurance, there can be no assurance that the scope of coverage or limits of such insurance will be adequate to protect us against future claims. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Risks Related To The Specialty Pharmacy Industry There is substantial competition in our industry, and we may not be able to compete successfully. The specialty pharmacy industry is highly competitive and is continuing to become more competitive. All of the medications, supplies and services that we provide are also available from our competitors. Our current and potential competitors may include: • other specialty pharmacy distributors; • specialty pharmacy divisions of wholesale drug distributors; • pharmacy benefit management companies; • hospital-based pharmacies; • other retail pharmacies; • manufacturers that sell their products both to distributors and directly to clinics and physicians’ offices; and • hospital-based care centers and other alternate site healthcare providers. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and marketing staffs and more established operations and infrastructure than we have. A significant factor in effective competition will be our ability to maintain and expand relationships with patients, healthcare providers and government and private payors. If we are found to be in violation of Medicaid and Medicare reimbursement regulations, we could become subject to retroactive adjustments and recoupments. As a Medicaid and Medicare provider, we are subject to retroactive adjustments due to prior-year audits, reviews and investigations, government fraud and abuse initiatives, and other similar actions. Federal regulations also provide for withholding payments to recoup amounts payable under the programs. While we believe we are 27 Table of Contents in material compliance with applicable Medicaid and Medicare reimbursement regulations, there can be no assurance that we, pursuant to such audits, reviews, investigations, or other proceedings, will be found to be in compliance in all respects with such reimbursement regulations. A determination that we are in violation of any such reimbursement regulations could result in retroactive adjustments and recoupments of payments and have a material adverse effect on us. As a Medicaid and Medicare provider, we are also subject to routine, unscheduled audits that can have a material adverse impact on our results of operations should an audit result in a negative finding. There can be no assurance at this time as to the impact on us of future Medicaid and Medicare audits. Our industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and noncompliance by us or our suppliers could harm our business. The repackaging, marketing, sale and purchase of medications are extensively regulated by federal and state governments. If we fail or are accused of failing to comply with laws and regulations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Many of the HIV/AIDS medications that we sell receive greater attention from law enforcement officials than those medications that are most often dispensed by traditional pharmacies due to the high cost of HIV/AIDS medications and the potential for illegal use. In addition, we recognize that the Federal government has an interest in examining relationships between providers or between providers and other third parties relating to health technology services, including those that facilitate the electronic submission of prescriptions. For example, it is possible that our relationship with LabTracker/Oris Medical might invite inquiry from the Federal government. Part of the earn-out payment under our purchase agreement to acquire Oris Medical Systems, Inc. is based upon the number of patients who submit their prescriptions to our pharmacies through the LabTracker software system. These payments are made directly to the shareholders of Oris Medical and to Ground Zero Software, Inc., the owner of LabTracker. The purchase agreement expressly prohibits the shareholders of Oris Medical and Ground Zero from marketing the Oris software system. In addition, we will charge each provider who licenses the Oris System a fair market value license fee. While we believe our relationships with the shareholders of Oris Medical and Ground Zero and with the users of Oris comply with the anti-kickback laws, if we are found to violate any of these laws, we could suffer penalties, fines, or possible exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, which would reduce our sales and profits. Our business could also be harmed if the entities with which we contract or have business relationships, such as pharmaceutical manufacturers, distributors, physicians or HIV/AIDS clinics, are accused of violating laws or regulations. The applicable regulatory framework is complex and evolving, and the laws are very broad in scope. There are significant uncertainties involving the application of many of these legal requirements to our business. Many of the laws remain open to interpretation and have not been addressed by substantive court decisions that clarify their meaning. We are unable to predict what additional federal or state legislation or regulatory initiatives may be enacted in the future relating to our business or the healthcare industry in general, or what effect any such legislation or regulation might have on us. Further, we cannot provide any assurance that federal or state governments will not impose additional restrictions or adopt interpretations of existing laws that could increase our cost of compliance with such laws or reduce our ability to become profitable. If we are found to have violated any of these laws, we could be required to pay fines and penalties, which could materially adversely affect our profitability, and our ability to conduct our business as currently structured. Federal and state investigations and enforcement actions continue to focus on the healthcare industry, scrutinizing a wide range of items such as referral and billing practices, product discount arrangements, dissemination of confidential patient information, clinical drug research trials, pharmaceutical marketing programs, and gifts for patients. It is difficult to predict how any of the laws implicated in these investigations and enforcement actions may be interpreted to apply to our business. To our knowledge, we are not currently the subject of any investigation. Any future investigation may cause publicity that would cause potential patients to avoid us, reducing potential net sales and profits and cause our stock price to decline. 28 Table of Contents Recent changes in how Medicaid and other government payors calculate the amount we are paid for medications we sell could reduce our pricing and margins. Historically, many government payors, including ADAP and Medicaid programs, which account for most of our net sales, paid us directly or indirectly for the medications we handle at average wholesale price, or AWP, or at a percentage of AWP. Private payors with whom we may contract also reimburse for medications at AWP or at a percentage of AWP. Federal and state governmental attention continues to focus on the validity of using AWP as the basis for Medicaid medication payments, including payments for HIV/AIDS medications, and most state Medicaid programs pay substantially less than AWP for drugs. In January of 2006, the Reduction Act was enacted which established AMP as the benchmark for prescription drug reimbursement in the Medicaid program, eliminating the previously used AWP standard. This legislation also made changes to the federal upper payment limit for multiple source drugs. Payments to pharmacies for Medicaid-covered outpatient prescription drugs are set by the states. Federal reimbursements to states for the federal share of those payments are subject to FUL. Effective January 1, 2007, for multiple source drugs (i.e., generics), the FUL will be 250% of the AMP. We are reviewing the potential impact that the Reduction Act may have on our business and are not yet in a position to fully assess its impact on our business or profitability. Its effect may be to reduce reimbursement for certain medications that we dispense, either currently or in the future. As of January 1, 2004, Medicare adopted new pricing that reduced reimbursement for many drugs covered under Medicare Part B. In 2005, the agency that administers the Medicare and Medicaid Programs, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, changed reimbursement so that it will be based on average sales price, or ASP rather than AWP. In 2006, reimbursement may be based on ASP or administered under a competitive acquisition program. This change in pricing may result in reduced reimbursement for medications we dispense. Our sales and profitability are affected by the efforts of healthcare payors to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare by lowering reimbursement rates, limiting the scope of covered services, and negotiating reduced or capitated pricing arrangements. Any changes which lower reimbursement levels under Medicaid, Medicare or private payors could also reduce our future revenue. Furthermore, other changes in these reimbursement programs or in related regulations could reduce our future revenue. These changes may include modifications in the timing or processing of payments and other changes intended to limit or decrease the growth of Medicaid, Medicare or third party expenditures. In addition, the failure, even if inadvertent, by us and/or our patients to comply with applicable reimbursement regulations could adversely affect our reimbursement under these programs and our ability to continue to participate in these programs. In addition, our failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to other penalties. We have entered into relationships with PDPs from which we receive reimbursement for our patients who are dual eligible and enrolled with such PDPs. Part D became effective on January 1, 2006, and until the end of the first quarter of 2006, we may not know the number of patients we serve currently who do not enroll in a PDP with which we have a contract, or who are assigned automatically to a PDP with which we have a contract, or who choose another pharmacy with which the PDP has a contract. If we fail to comply with the terms and conditions of our agreements with the PDPs, our contracts with such PDPs may be terminated. Our business could be affected by reforms in the healthcare industry. Healthcare reform measures have been considered by Congress and other federal and state bodies during recent years. The intent of the proposals generally has been to reduce healthcare costs and the growth of total healthcare expenditures, and to eliminate fraud, waste and financial abuse. Comprehensive healthcare reform may be considered and efforts to enact reform bills are likely to continue. These changes are occurring on a fast-paced basis and it is impossible to predict the extent or substance of those changes. For example, Florida recently approved a sweeping change to its Medicaid program that shifts from the traditional Medicaid “defined benefit” plan to a “defined contribution” plan, under which the state sets a limit on spending for each recipient. Under the 29 Table of Contents new program, Medicaid enrollees will enroll in, or be automatically enrolled in, private health plans, which will have the authority to manage the Medicaid health care benefit. Other states are considering implementing such a change to the administration of their Medicaid programs. We are unable to predict the likelihood of any healthcare reform legislation or similar legislation being enacted into law or the effects that any such legislation would have on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have not received written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the SEC staff that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2005 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 