Item 1A. Risk Factors All phases of our operations are subject to a number of uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which are outside of our control and any one of which, or a combination of which, could materially affect our consolidated liquidity, financial position or results of our operations. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are discussed below. You should carefully consider these factors before investing in our securities. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation: The waste industry is highly competitive and includes large companies and municipalities that may have greater financial and operational resources, flexibility to reduce prices and other competitive advantages that could make it difficult for us to compete effectively. We principally compete with large national waste management companies, municipalities and numerous regional and local companies for collection accounts. We compete primarily on the basis of price and the quality of services. Some of the national waste management companies may have greater financial and operational resources than us. Some municipalities derive their financial resources from their constituent communities. These resources may allow them to reduce prices in order to expand sales volume or win competitive bids. Many counties and municipalities that operate their own waste collection and disposal facilities may have the benefits of tax revenues or tax-exempt financing. Our ability to obtain solid waste volume for our landfills may also be limited by the fact that some major collection companies also own or operate landfills to which they send their waste. In markets in which we do not own or operate a landfill, our collection operations may operate at a disadvantage to fully integrated competitors. As a result of these factors, we may have difficulty competing effectively from time to time or in certain markets. If we were to lower prices to address these competitive issues, it could negatively impact our revenue growth and profitability. Price increases may not be adequate to offset the impact of inflation on our costs and/or may cause us to lose volume. Where appropriate, we expect to raise prices for our services sufficient to offset cost increases from inflation and to improve our return on invested capital. However, competitive factors have and may continue to require us to absorb cost increases resulting from inflation, or may cause us to lose volume to competitors willing to service customers at a lower price. Consistent with industry practice, most of our contracts provide for a pass through of certain costs, including increases in landfill tipping fees and, in some cases, fuel costs. Downturns in the U.S. economy have had and may have an adverse impact on our operating results. A weak economy generally results in decreases in the volumes of waste generated. In the past, weakness in the U.S. economy has had a negative effect on our operating results, including 10 Table of Contents decreases in revenues and operating cash flows. Previous economic slowdowns have negatively impacted the portion of our collection business servicing the manufacturing and construction industries. Additionally, in an economic slowdown, we may experience the negative effects of increased competitive pricing pressure and customer turnover. There can be no assurance that worsening economic conditions or a prolonged or recurring recession will not have a significant adverse impact on our operating results or liquidity. Further, there can be no assurance that an improvement in economic conditions will result in an immediate, if at all positive improvement in our operating results or cash flows. Adverse weather conditions may limit our operations and increase the costs of collection and disposal. Our collection and landfill operations could be adversely impacted by extended periods of inclement weather, which interfere with collection and landfill operations, delay the development of landfill capacity and/or reduce the volume of waste generated by our customers. In addition, weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect our operating results in the affected regions during those periods. We currently have matters pending with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), which could result in large cash expenditures and could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and cash flows. Our federal income tax returns for years 1998 through 2006 are currently under examination by the IRS. The federal income tax audit for BFI’s tax years ended September 30, 1996 through July 30, 1999 is complete except for one matter. If the outstanding matter is decided against us, we estimate it could have a cash impact of approximately $242 million for federal and state taxes, plus accrued interest through December 31, 2007 of approximately $150 million ($94 million net of tax benefit). Additionally, the IRS could ultimately impose penalties and interest on those penalties for any amount up to approximately $121 million, as of December 31, 2007, after tax. Because of the high interest rate being assessed on this matter, on February 13, 2008, we paid the IRS $196 million for tax and interest related to our 1999 income tax return. Later in 2008, we expect to pay the IRS and other tax authorities approximately $155 million of tax and interest related to this matter, primarily associated with our 2000 through 2003 income tax returns. The payments do not represent a settlement with respect to the potential tax, interest or penalty related to this matter nor do they prevent us from contesting the IRS tax adjustment applicable to our 1999 through 2003 taxable years in a federal refund action. Also, if an outstanding matter from 2002 relating to an exchange of partnership interests is decided against us, we estimate it could have a potential total cash impact of approximately $160 million for federal and state taxes, plus accrued interest through December 31, 2007 of approximately $37 million ($24 million, net of tax benefit). In addition, for both matters, the IRS could impose a penalty of up to 40% of the additional income tax due. The potential tax and interest (but not penalties or penalty-related interest) impact of the above matters has been fully reserved on our consolidated balance sheet. With regard to tax and accrued interest through December 31, 2007, a disallowance would not materially affect our consolidated results of operations; however, a deficiency payment would adversely impact our cash flow in the period the payment was made. The accrual of additional interest charges through the time these matters are resolved will affect our consolidated results of operations. In addition, the successful assertion by the IRS of penalties could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated cash flows and results of operations. Also, the IRS has proposed that certain landfill costs be allocated to the collection and control of methane gas that is naturally produced within the landfill. The IRS’ position is that the methane gas produced by a landfill is a joint product resulting from the operations of the landfill and, therefore, these costs should not be expensed until the methane gas is sold or otherwise disposed. We believe we have several meritorious defenses, including the fact that methane gas is not actively produced for sale by us but rather arises naturally in the context of providing disposal services. 11 Table of Contents Therefore, we believe that the resolution of this issue will not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated liquidity, financial position or results of operations. For additional information on these matters, see Note 9, Income Taxes, to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Other matters may also arise in the course of tax audits that could adversely impact our consolidated liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. Increases in the cost of fuel or oil for any extended period of time will increase our operating expenses. Our operations are dependent on fuel to run our collection and transfer trucks and equipment used in our landfill operations. We buy fuel in the open market and the price is unpredictable and can fluctuate significantly based on events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, geopolitical developments, actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil and gas producers, supply and demand for oil and gas, war, terrorism and unrest in oil-producing countries and regional production patterns, and we may not be able to offset such volatility through fuel recovery fees. For example, our fuel costs were $308.7 million in 2007, representing 8.2% of costs of operations compared to $291.6 million in 2006, representing 7.7% of costs of operations. This increase primarily reflects an increase in the price of fuel. In addition, regulations affecting the type of fuel our trucks use are changing and could materially increase the cost and consumption of our fuel. Our operations also require certain petroleum-based products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of oil. An increase in the price of oil could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. Fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities that we sell to customers may adversely affect our revenues, operating income and cash flows. We process recyclable materials such as paper, cardboard, plastics, aluminum and other metals for sale to third parties. Our results of operations may be affected by changing prices or market requirements for recyclable materials. The resale and purchase prices of, and market demand for, recyclable materials can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control. These fluctuations may affect our future revenues, operating income and cash flows. Our recycling business accounted for approximately 4% of consolidated revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. We may be subject to influences of the workforce, including work stoppages, which could increase our operating costs and disrupt our operations. As of December 31, 2007, 29% of our workforce was represented by various local labor unions. If our unionized workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown in the future, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and an increase in our operating costs, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if a greater percentage of our workforce becomes unionized, our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted due to the potential for increased operating costs. Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel is a significant factor for our continued success. In our markets, we compete with other businesses for qualified employees. At times the labor supply is limited in such markets. A shortage of qualified employees could require us to hire more expensive temporary employees, to compete more effectively for employees by offering enhanced wage and benefits packages or to contract for services with more expensive third party vendors. If we are unable to control our labor costs, fail to attract and retain qualified employees or recover any increased labor costs through increased pricing for our services or otherwise offset such increases with cost savings in other areas, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. 12 Table of Contents We may not realize all of the expected benefits from our business development plan. There can be no assurance that we will achieve increases in sales as a result of our business development plan. For example, it is our intention to increase our sales in part through growth in our National Accounts business; however, such growth may not materialize. Even if we are successful in increasing National Accounts revenue, this may negatively impact our consolidated operating margin percentage, since National Accounts business may have a lower operating margin than other customers. We are committed to improving the returns on our invested capital. We may determine that certain development projects, operations, landfills or markets are not expected to provide an adequate return. We may sell, abandon, or temporarily close these projects or operations, which could result in lower earnings, or asset or goodwill impairments. We are subject to costly environmental regulations that may affect our operating margins, restrict our operations and subject us to additional liability. Our compliance with laws and regulations governing the use, treatment, storage, and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and materials, air quality, water quality and the remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances is costly. Government laws and regulations often require us to enhance or replace our equipment and to modify landfill operations or initiate final closure of a landfill. There can be no assurance that we will be able to implement price increases sufficient to offset the cost of complying with these laws and regulations. In addition, environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase expenditures for closure and post-closure monitoring at solid waste facilities and obligate us to spend sums in addition to those presently accrued for such purposes. In the future, our collection, transfer and landfill operations may also be affected by proposed federal and state legislation that may allow individual states to prohibit the disposal of out-of-state waste or to limit the amount of out-of-state waste that can be imported for disposal and may require states, under some circumstances, to reduce the amount of waste exported to other states. If this or similar legislation is enacted in states in which we operate landfills that receive a significant portion of waste from out-of-state, our operations could be negatively affected due to a decline in landfill volumes and increased cost of alternate disposal. The United States Congress could also propose “flow control” legislation, which may allow states and local governments to direct waste generated within their jurisdiction to a specific facility for disposal or processing. If this or similar legislation is enacted, state or local governments with jurisdiction over our landfills could act to limit or prohibit disposal or processing of waste in our landfills. In addition to the costs of complying with environmental regulations, we incur costs to defend against litigation brought by government agencies and private parties who may allege we are in violation of our permits and applicable environmental laws and regulations, or who assert claims alleging environmental damage, personal injury and/or property damage. As a result, we may be required to pay fines, implement corrective measures, or may have our permits and licenses modified or revoked. A significant judgment against us, the loss of a significant permit or license or the imposition of a significant fine could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to obtain required permits or to expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenues and increase our costs. There can be no assurance that we will successfully obtain the permits we require to operate our business because permits to operate non-hazardous solid waste landfills and to expand the permitted capacity of existing landfills have become more difficult and expensive to obtain. Permits often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and compliance with zoning, environmental and other regulatory requirements. These permits are also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. Local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies oppose the issuance of a permit or 13 Table of Contents approval we need, allege violations of the permits under which we operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. Responding to these challenges has, at times, increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new facilities and expanding existing facilities. In addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new facilities and expanding existing facilities. Our failure to obtain the required permits to operate non-hazardous solid waste landfills could hinder our ability to implement our vertical integration strategy and have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations as 13.7% of our third-party revenues in 2007 were generated from our landfills. Additionally, landfills typically operate at a higher margin than our other operations. We also could incur higher costs due to the fact that we would be required to dispose of our waste in landfills owned by other waste companies or municipalities. The waste industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and existing or future regulations, may restrict our operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to make additional capital expenditures. We may have potential environmental liabilities that are not covered by our insurance. We may incur liabilities for the deterioration of the environment as a result of our operations. We maintain high deductibles for our environmental liability insurance coverage. If we were to incur substantial liability for environmental damage, our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover such liability. This could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Despite our efforts, we may incur additional hazardous substances liability in excess of amounts presently known and accrued. We are a potentially responsible party at many sites under CERCLA, which provides for the remediation of contaminated facilities and imposes strict, joint and several liability, for the cost of remediation on current owners and operators of a facility at which there has been a release or a threatened release of a “hazardous substance”, on former site owners and operators at the time of disposal of the hazardous substance(s) and on persons who arrange for the disposal of such substances at the facility (i.e., generator of the waste and transporters who selected the disposal site). Hundreds of substances are defined as “hazardous” under CERCLA and their presence, even in minute amounts, can result in substantial liability. Notwithstanding our efforts to comply with applicable regulations and to avoid transporting and receiving hazardous substances, we may have additional liability under CERCLA or similar laws in excess of our current reserves because such substances may be present in waste collected by us or disposed of in our landfills, or in waste collected, transported or disposed of in the past by acquired companies. In addition, actual costs for these liabilities could be significantly greater than amounts presently accrued for these purposes. We cannot assure you that we will continue to operate our landfills at currently estimated volumes due to the use of alternatives to landfill disposal caused by state requirements or voluntary initiatives. Most of the states in which we operate landfills require counties and municipalities to formulate comprehensive plans to reduce the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills through waste planning, composting and recycling or other programs. Some state and local governments mandate waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of wastes, such as yard wastes, at landfills. Although such actions are useful to protect our environment, these actions, as well as voluntary private initiatives by customers to reduce waste or seek disposal alternatives, may reduce the volume of waste going to landfills in certain areas. If this occurs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to operate our landfills at their current estimated volumes or charge current prices for landfill disposal services due to the decrease in demand for such services. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to execute our business strategy, our waste disposal expenses could increase significantly. Ongoing implementation of our vertical integration strategy will depend on our ability to maintain appropriate collection operations, transfer stations and landfill capacity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to replace such assets either timely or cost effectively. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in expanding the permitted capacity of our current landfills once our landfill capacity is full. In such event, we may have to dispose of collected waste at landfills operated by our competitors or haul the waste long distances at a higher cost to another of our landfills, either of which could significantly increase our waste disposal expenses. Any such failure could seriously harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The solid waste industry is a capital-intensive industry and the amount we spend on capital expenditures may increase, which could require us to issue additional equity or debt to fund our operations or impair our ability to grow our business. Our ability to remain competitive, grow and expand operations largely depends on our cash flow from operations and access to capital. We spent $670 million on capital expenditures during 2007 and expect to spend approximately $650 million in 2008. If our capital efficiency programs are unable to offset the impact of inflation and business growth, it may be necessary to increase the amount we spend. In addition, we spent approximately $75.2 million on landfill capping, closure and post-closure and environmental remediation during 2007, and expect to spend approximately $96 million in 2008. If we make acquisitions or further expand our operations, the amount we expend on capital, capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation expenditures will increase. Our cash needs will also increase if the expenditures for closure and post-closure monitoring increase above our current estimates, which may occur over a long period due to changes in federal, state, or local government requirements. Increases in expenditures will result in lower levels of working capital or require us to finance working capital deficits. Conversely, federal regulations have tightened the emission standards on class A vehicles, which includes the collection vehicles we purchase. As a result, we could experience a reduction in operating efficiency. This could cause an increase in vehicle operating costs. Also, we may reduce the number of vehicles we purchase until manufacturers adapt to the new standards to increase efficiency. 15 Table of Contents We may not be successful in continuing to service or repay our indebtedness, which could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, we have had a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness with significant debt service requirements. From 1999 to 2007 we reduced our consolidated debt from approximately $11.0 billion to approximately $6.6 billion. Although we have substantially reduced our leverage over this period, our leverage is not insignificant and we must continue to service and repay our indebtedness. Our failure to maintain our cash flows and other results of operations could have an adverse effect on our ability to service our indebtedness, repay our debt at maturity, meet other obligations and fund other liquidity needs. In such an event, we may be required to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of our existing debt or seeking additional equity capital. We cannot assure you that any of these alternatives will be effective or available to us. Further, our leverage could increase if we make additional borrowings while operating results remain the same or if we maintain the amount of our debt and operating results decline. As of December 31, 2007, we had about $1.223 billion of availability under our senior credit agreement. If our leverage were to increase, it could have negative consequences to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Among other things, increased leverage could increase our debt service obligations, limit cash flow available for capital expenditures and other investments in our business, increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and interest rate increases, limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and our industry, limit our ability to access the capital markets and increase the risk that we could not comply with financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness. The failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the debt being declared immediately due and payable and have a material adverse effect on us. Covenants in our debt instruments may limit our ability to operate our business and any failure by us to comply with such covenants may accelerate our obligation to repay the underlying debt. Our senior credit facility, our indentures and certain of the agreements governing the other indebtedness of our company and our subsidiaries contain covenants that may limit our ability to operate our business, invest in other businesses, sell assets, create liens or make distributions or other payments to our investors and creditors. All of these restrictions may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. Our ability to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in our debt may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions or other events beyond our control. If we do not comply with these covenants and restrictions, we could be in default and the debt, together with accrued interest, could be declared immediately payable. If we are unable to repay any borrowings when due, the lenders under our senior credit facility could proceed against their collateral, which includes most of our assets. If any of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient assets to repay amounts due. A downgrade in our bond ratings could adversely affect our liquidity by increasing the cost of debt and financial assurance instruments. Our debt instruments contain no ratings-related covenants. However, while downgrades of our bond ratings may not have an immediate impact on our cost of debt or liquidity, they may impact the cost of debt and liquidity over the near to medium term. If the rating agencies downgrade our debt, this may increase the interest rate we must pay if we issue new debt, and it may even make it prohibitively expensive for us to issue new debt. If our debt ratings are downgraded, future 16 Table of Contents access to financial assurance markets at a reasonable cost, or at all, also may be adversely impacted. Changes in interest rates may negatively affect our results of operations. At December 31, 2007, approximately 80% of our debt was fixed and 20% was floating. At this level of floating rate debt, if interest rates increased by 100 basis points, annualized interest expense would increase by approximately $13.3 million ($8.2 million after tax). Therefore, any increase in interest rates could significantly increase our interest expense and may have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to obtain necessary financial assurances, it could negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources. We are required to provide financial assurance to governmental agencies and a variety of other entities under applicable environmental regulations relating to our landfill operations and collection contracts. In addition, we are required to provide financial assurance for our self-insurance program. We satisfy the financial assurances requirements by providing surety bonds, letters of credit, insurance policies or trust deposits. As of December 31, 2007, we have total financial assurance requirements of approximately $2.8 billion. Should we experience rating agency downgrades, the mix of financial assurance instruments we can obtain may change and we may be required to obtain additional letters of credit. In the event we are unable to obtain sufficient surety bonds, letters of credit, insurance policies or trust deposits at reasonable costs, or at all, we would need to rely on other forms of financial assurance that may be more expensive to obtain. This could negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources and our ability to meet our obligations as they become due. Our goodwill may become impaired, which could result in a material non-cash charge to our results of operations. We have a substantial amount of goodwill resulting from our acquisitions, including Browning-Ferris Industries, Inc. (BFI) and Laidlaw. At least annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment in the carrying value, as defined by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), we evaluate this goodwill for impairment based on the fair value of each reporting unit. This estimated fair value could change if there were future changes in our capital structure, cost of debt, interest rates, capital expenditure levels, ability to perform at levels that were forecasted or a significant change to the market capitalization of our company. These changes could result in an impairment that could require a material non-cash charge to our results of operations. Our financial covenants do not contain provisions to maintain a minimum shareholders’ equity or ratios derived from shareholders’ equity. Currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. We are involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries and governmental and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of our business. Many of these matters raise difficult and complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties and complexities. The timing of the final resolutions to these types of matters is often uncertain. Additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments, adversely affecting our results of operations and liquidity. Our business would be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel. Our senior management team is critical to the management and direction of our businesses. Our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain these individuals and other capable management personnel. From time to time we have entered into employment agreements with some of our executive officers and we may do so in the future, as competitive needs require. 17 Table of Contents Departures by our senior management could have a negative impact on our business, as we may not be able to find suitable management personnel to replace departing executives on a timely basis. Businesses we acquire may have undisclosed liabilities and we may be unable to integrate these businesses successfully. In connection with any acquisition made by us, there may be liabilities that we fail to discover or are unable to discover, including liabilities arising from non-compliance with environmental laws by prior owners and for which we, as successor owner, may be responsible. These liabilities could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. We often attempt to minimize our exposure to such liabilities by acquiring only specified assets, by obtaining indemnification from each seller of the acquired companies or by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price as security for the indemnification. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining such indemnifications or that they will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any undisclosed liabilities arising from our acquisitions. Similarly, we incur capitalized costs associated with acquisitions, which if never consummated would result in a charge to earnings. Further, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate any acquisitions that we pursue or that such acquisitions will perform as planned or prove to be beneficial to our operations and cash flow. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired businesses, the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns and potential adverse effects on existing business relationships with current customers. The consolidation of our operations with the operations of acquired companies, including the consolidation of systems, procedures, personnel and facilities, the relocation of staff, and the achievement of anticipated cost savings, economies of scale and other business efficiencies, presents significant challenges to our management, particularly if several acquisitions occur at the same time. Our failure to successfully integrate businesses we acquire could have an adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. The possibility of disposal site developments, expansion projects or pending acquisitions not being completed or certain other events could result in a material charge against our earnings. In accordance with GAAP, we capitalize certain expenditures relating to disposal site development, expansion projects, acquisitions, software development and other projects. If a facility or operation is permanently shut down or determined to be impaired, a pending acquisition is not completed, a development or expansion project is not completed or is determined to be impaired, we will charge any unamortized capitalized expenditures relating to such facility, acquisition or project that we are unable to recover through sale or otherwise against earnings. In future periods, we may incur charges against earnings in accordance with this policy, or due to other events that cause impairments. Depending on the magnitude, any such charges could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. If we inadequately accrue for landfill capping, closure and post-closure costs, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. A landfill must be closed and capped, and post-closure maintenance commenced once the permitted capacity of the landfill is reached and additional capacity is not authorized. We have significant financial obligations relating to such capping, closure and post-closure costs of our existing owned or operated landfills and will have material financial obligations with respect to any future owned or operated disposal facilities. We establish accruals for the estimated costs associated with such capping, closure and post-closure financial obligations. We could underestimate such accruals and our financial obligations for capping, closure or post-closure costs could exceed the amount accrued and reserved or amounts otherwise receivable pursuant to trust funds established for this purpose. Such a shortfall could result in significant unanticipated charges. 18 Table of Contents We are required to make accounting and tax-related estimates and judgments in the ordinary course of business. The accounting and tax-related estimates and judgments we must make in the ordinary course of business affect the reported amounts of our assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of our operating results during the periods presented as described under “Critical Accounting Judgments and Estimates” in Item 7 in this Form 10-K. Additionally, we are required to interpret the accounting rules and tax law in existence as of the date of the financial statements when the rules and laws are not specific to a particular event or transaction. If the underlying estimates or judgments are ultimately proved to be incorrect, or if auditors or regulators subsequently interpret our application of the rules differently, subsequent corrections could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations for the current or prior periods. The introduction of new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our results of operations. Complying with new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or funding requirements, or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our results of operations in future periods. Our obligation to fund multi-employer pension plans to which we contribute may have an adverse impact on us. We contribute to 23 multi-employer pension plans covering approximately 20% of our current employees. We do not administer these plans and generally are not represented on the boards of trustees of these plans. The Pension Protection Act enacted in August 2006 requires under-funded pension plans to improve their funding ratios, perhaps beginning as soon as 2008. We do not have current plan financial information for the multi-employer plans to which we contribute but, based on the information available to us, we believe that some of them are under-funded. We cannot determine at this time the amount of additional funding, if any, we will be required to make to these plans and, therefore, have not recorded a liability but it could have an adverse impact on our cash flows or results of operations for a given period. Furthermore, under current law, upon the termination of a multi-employer pension plan, or in the event of a mass withdrawal of contributing employers, we would be required to make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the plan’s unfunded vested liabilities. We cannot assure you that there will not be a termination of, or mass withdrawal of employers contributing to, any of the multi-employer pension plans to which we contribute or that, in the event of such a termination or mass withdrawal, the amounts we would be required to contribute would not have an adverse impact on our cash flows or results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 