Item 1A. Risk Factors All phases of our operations are subject to a number of uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which are outside of our control and any one of which, or a combination of which, could materially affect the results of our operations or liquidity. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are discussed below. You should carefully consider these factors before investing in our securities. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation: We compete with large companies and municipalities that may have greater financial and operational resources, flexibility to reduce prices and other competitive advantages that could make it difficult for us to compete effectively. We principally compete with large national waste management companies, such as Waste Management, Inc. and Republic Services, Inc., municipalities and numerous regional and local companies for collection accounts. We compete primarily on the basis of price and the quality of services. Some of the national waste management companies and municipalities may have greater financial and operational resources than us, which may allow them to reduce prices in order to expand sales volume or win competitive bids. Many counties and municipalities that operate their own waste collection and disposal facilities may have the benefits of tax revenues, tax-exempt financing and the ability to control the disposal of waste collected within their 9 Table of Contents jurisdictions, which also would give them a competitive advantage. As a result of these factors, we may have difficulty competing effectively from time to time or in certain markets. Price increases may not be adequate to offset the impact of inflation on our costs and/or may cause us to lose volume. Where appropriate, we expect to raise prices for our services sufficient to offset cost increases from inflation and to improve our return on invested capital. However, competitive factors have and may continue to require us to absorb cost increases resulting from inflation, or may cause us to lose volume to competitors willing to service customers at a lower price. Consistent with industry practice, most of our contracts provide for a pass through of certain costs, including increases in landfill tipping fees and, in some cases, fuel costs. Downturns in the U.S. economy have had and may have an adverse impact on our operating results. A weak economy generally results in decreases in the volumes of waste generated. In the past, weakness in the U.S. economy has had a negative effect on our operating results, including decreases in revenues and operating cash flows. Additionally, in an economic slowdown, we may experience the negative effects of increased competitive pricing pressure and customer turnover. There can be no assurance that worsening economic conditions or a prolonged or recurring recession will not have a significant adverse impact on our operating results or liquidity. Additionally, there can be no assurance that an improvement in economic conditions will result in an immediate, if at all positive improvement in our operating results or liquidity. Our goodwill may become impaired, which could result in a material non-cash charge to our results of operations. We have a substantial amount of goodwill resulting from our acquisitions, including Browning-Ferris Industries, Inc. (BFI) and Laidlaw. At least annually, or when we divest a business, as defined by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), we evaluate this goodwill for impairment based on the fair value of each reporting unit. This estimated fair value could change if there were future changes in our capital structure, cost of debt, interest rates, capital expenditure levels, ability to perform at levels that were forecasted or a permanent change to the market capitalization of our company. These changes could result in an impairment that could require a material non-cash charge to our results of operations. We currently have matters pending with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), which could result in large cash expenditures and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. Current examinations include federal income tax audits for calendar years 1998 through 2003. A federal income tax audit for BFI’s tax years ended September 30, 1996 through July 30, 1999 is completed except for one matter. If the outstanding matter is decided against us, we estimate it could have a potential total cash impact of approximately $280 million for federal and state taxes, of which approximately $33 million has been paid, plus accrued interest through December 31, 2006 of approximately $131 million ($79 million net of tax benefit). Also, if an outstanding matter from 2002, relating to an exchange of partnership interests, is decided against us, we estimate it could have a potential total cash tax impact of approximately $160 million for federal and state taxes plus accrued interest through December 31, 2006 of approximately $31 million ($19 million, net of tax benefit). In addition, for both matters, the IRS may successfully impose a penalty of up to 40% of the additional income tax due. The potential tax and interest (but not penalties or penalty-related interest) impact of the above matters has been fully reserved on our consolidated balance sheet. With regard to tax and accrued interest through December 31, 2006, a disallowance would not materially affect our consolidated results of operations; however, a deficiency payment would adversely impact our cash flow in the period the payment was made. The accrual of additional interest charges through the time these matters are resolved will affect our consolidated results of operations. In addition, the successful assertion by the IRS of penalties could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated liquidity, financial position and results of operations. For additional information on these matters, see Note 13, Income Taxes, to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Other matters may also arise in the course of tax audits that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 10 Table of Contents Increases in the cost of fuel or oil for any extended period of time will increase our operating expenses. Our operations are dependent on fuel to run our collection and transfer trucks and equipment used in our landfill operations. We buy fuel in the open market and the price is unpredictable and can fluctuate significantly based on political and economic factors. For example, our fuel costs were $298.4 million in 2006 compared to $241.7 million in 2005. This increase primarily reflects an increase in the price of fuel. In addition, regulations affecting the type of fuel our trucks use are changing in 2007 and could materially increase the cost and consumption of our fuel. Our operations also require certain petroleum-based products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of oil. An increase in the price of oil could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. Adverse weather conditions may limit our operations and increase the costs of collection and disposal. Our collection and landfill operations could be adversely affected by long periods of inclement weather which interfere with collection and landfill operations, delay the development of landfill capacity and/or reduce the volume of waste generated by our customers. In addition, weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect our operating results during those periods. Fluctuations in commodity prices could affect our revenues, operating income and cash flows. We process recyclable materials such as paper, cardboard, plastics, aluminum and other metals for sale to third parties, generally at current market prices. All of these materials are subject to significant price fluctuations, which are driven by general market conditions, global economic conditions and seasonality. These price fluctuations may affect our future revenues, operating income and cash flows. We may be subject to work stoppages, which could increase our operating costs and disrupt our operations. As of December 31, 2006, 29% of our workforce was represented by various local labor unions. If our unionized workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown in the future, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and an increase in our operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if a greater percentage of our work force becomes unionized, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected due to the potential for increased operating expenses resulting in lower net income. We may not realize all of the expected benefits from our significant investment in the development and implementation of our best practices program. We have invested in the identification, development and implementation of a best practices program intended to improve productivity, enhance the quality of our revenue collections and reduce costs. We cannot guarantee that all expected improvements will materialize or have a positive effect on operating results. For example, we have undertaken various procurement-related initiatives which we expect will ultimately save us $100 million in annual operating and capital costs. We may not be able to achieve this level of savings. If we are unable to control these and other costs, we may not be able to improve or maintain operating margins. 11 Table of Contents We may not realize all of the expected benefits from our market rationalization plan. As part of a market rationalization plan, we are performing detailed analysis of our underperforming markets and are considering disposition in some cases. There can be no assurance that we will ultimately sell assets, and if we do, there is no assurance the asset sales will improve margins, profits or operating cash flows. Further, there can be no assurance these sales will not result in a loss on disposition at the time of the sale. We may not realize all of the expected benefits from our business development plan. There can be no assurance that we will achieve increases in sales as a result of our business development plan. For example, it is our intention to increase our sales in part through growth in national accounts; however, such growth may not materialize. Even if we are successful in increasing national account revenue, this may negatively impact our consolidated operating margin percentage, since national accounts may have a lower operating margin than other customers. We are committed to improving the returns on our invested capital. We may determine that certain development projects operations, landfills or markets are not expected to provide an adequate return. We may sell, abandon, or temporarily close these projects or operations which could result in lower earnings, or asset or goodwill impairments. We are subject to costly environmental regulations that may affect our operating margins, restrict our operations and subject us to additional liability. Our compliance with laws and regulations governing the use, treatment, storage, and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and materials, air quality, water quality and the remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances is costly. Government laws and regulations often require us to enhance or replace our equipment and to modify landfill operations or initiate final closure of a landfill. There can be no assurance that we will be able to implement price increases sufficient to offset the cost of complying with these laws and regulations. In addition, environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase expenditures for closure and post-closure monitoring at solid waste facilities and obligate us to spend sums in addition to those presently accrued for such purposes. In the future, our collection, transfer and landfill operations may also be affected by proposed federal and state legislation that may allow individual states to prohibit the disposal of out-of-state waste or to limit the amount of out-of-state waste that can be imported for disposal and may require states, under some circumstances, to reduce the amount of waste exported to other states. If this or similar legislation is enacted in states in which we operate landfills that receive a significant portion of waste from out-of-state, our operations could be negatively affected due to a decline in landfill volumes and increased cost of alternate disposal. The United States Congress could also propose “flow control” legislation, which may allow states and local governments to direct waste generated within their jurisdiction to a specific facility for disposal or processing. If this or similar legislation is enacted, state or local governments with jurisdiction over our landfills could act to limit or prohibit disposal or processing of waste in our landfills. In addition to the costs of complying with environmental regulations, we incur costs to defend against litigation brought by government agencies and private parties who may allege we are in violation of our permits and applicable environmental laws and regulations, or who assert claims alleging environmental damage, personal injury and/or property damage. As a result, we may be required to pay fines, implement corrective measures, or may have our permits and licenses modified or revoked. A significant judgment against us, the loss of a significant permit or license or the imposition of a significant fine could have a material negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 12 Table of Contents We may have potential environmental liabilities that are not covered by our insurance. We may incur liabilities for the deterioration of the environment as a result of our operations. We maintain high deductibles for our environmental liability insurance coverage. If we were to incur substantial financial liability for environmental damage, our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover such liability. This may have a negative effect on our liquidity and there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Despite our efforts, we may incur additional hazardous substances liability in excess of amounts presently known and accrued. We are a potentially responsible party at many sites under CERCLA, which provides for the remediation of contaminated facilities and imposes strict, joint and several liability, for the cost of remediation on current owners and operators of a facility at which there has been a release or a threatened release of a “hazardous substance”, on former site owners and operators at the time of disposal of the hazardous substance(s) and on persons who arrange for the disposal of such substances at the facility (i.e., generator of the waste and transporters who selected the disposal site). Hundreds of substances are defined as “hazardous” under CERCLA and their presence, even in minute amounts, can result in substantial liability. Notwithstanding our efforts to comply with applicable regulations and to avoid transporting and receiving hazardous substances, we may have additional liability under CERCLA or similar laws in excess of our current reserves because such substances may be present in waste collected by us or disposed of in our landfills, or in waste collected, transported or disposed of in the past by acquired companies. In addition, actual costs for these liabilities could be significantly greater than amounts presently accrued for these purposes. We cannot assure you that we will continue to operate our landfills at currently estimated volumes due to the use of alternatives to landfill disposal caused by state requirements or voluntary initiatives. Most of the states or municipalities in which we operate landfills require counties and municipalities to formulate comprehensive plans to reduce the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills through waste planning, composting and recycling or other programs. Some state and local governments mandate waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of wastes, such as yard wastes, at landfills. These actions, as well as voluntary private initiatives by customers to reduce waste or seek disposal alternatives, may reduce the volume of waste going to landfills in certain areas. If this occurs, there can be no assurances that we will be able to operate our landfills at their current estimated volumes or charge current prices for landfill disposal services due to the decrease in demand for services. If we are unable to execute our business strategy, our waste disposal expenses could increase significantly. Ongoing implementation of our vertical integration strategy will depend on our ability to maintain appropriate landfill capacity, collection operations and transfer stations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to replace such assets either timely or cost effectively or integrate acquisition candidates effectively or profitably. Further, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in expanding the permitted capacity of our current landfills once our landfill capacity is full. In such event, we may have to dispose of collected waste at landfills operated by our competitors or haul the waste long distances at a higher cost to another of our landfills, either of which could significantly increase our waste disposal expenses. We may be unable to obtain required permits or to expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenues and increase our costs. There can be no assurance that we will successfully obtain the permits we require to operate our business because permits to operate non-hazardous solid waste landfills and to expand the permitted capacity of existing landfills have become more difficult and expensive to obtain. Permits often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and compliance with zoning, environmental and other regulatory requirements. These permits are also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. Our failure to obtain the 13 Table of Contents required permits to operate non-hazardous solid waste landfills could hinder our ability to implement our vertical integration strategy and have a material negative effect on our future results of operations as 14.1% of our third-party revenues in 2006 were generated from our landfills. Additionally, landfills typically operate at a higher margin than our other operations. We also could incur higher costs due to the fact that we would be required to dispose of our waste in landfills owned by other waste companies or municipalities. The solid waste industry is a capital-intensive industry and the amount we spend on capital expenditures may increase, which could require us to issue additional equity or debt to fund our operations or impair our ability to grow our business. Our ability to remain competitive, grow and expand operations largely depends on our cash flow from operations and access to capital. We spent $669.3 million on capital expenditures during 2006 and expect to spend approximately $700 million in 2007. In addition, we spent approximately $84.7 million on landfill capping, closure and post-closure and environmental remediation during 2006, with a similar amount expected in 2007. If we undertake more acquisitions or further expand our operations, the amount we expend on capital, capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation expenditures will increase. Our cash needs will also increase if the expenditures for closure and post-closure monitoring increase above our current estimates, which may occur due to changes in federal, state, or local government requirements. Increases in expenditures will result in lower levels of working capital or require us to finance working capital deficits. We may be required to obtain additional equity and/or debt financing for debt repayment obligations in order to fund our operations and/or to grow our business. These factors could substantially increase our operating costs and debt and therefore impair our ability to invest in property and equipment. We currently expect to maintain our capital expenditure level at approximately $700 million per year for the next several years. If our capital efficiency programs are unable to offset the impact of inflation and business growth, it may be necessary to increase the amount we spend. Conversely, beginning in 2007, federal regulations have tightened the emission standards on class A vehicles, which includes the collection vehicles we purchase. As a result, we could experience a reduction in operating efficiency. This could cause an increase in vehicle operating costs. Also, we may reduce the number of vehicles we purchase until manufacturers adapt to the new standards to increase efficiency. Our leverage may make it difficult for us to service our debt and operate our business. We have had and will continue to have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness with significant debt service requirements. At December 31, 2006, our consolidated debt was approximately $6.9 billion and our debt to total capitalization ratio was 65.8%. The degree to which we are leveraged could have negative consequences to our business. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to service our debt obligations; • limit cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures to fund organic growth or for other general corporate purposes because a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to servicing debt; • increase our vulnerability to economic downturns; • increase our vulnerability to interest rate increases to the extent any of our variable rate debt is not hedged which could result in higher interest expense; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt in relation to cash flow; • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and our industry; • limit, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds or obtain other financing capacity in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions; and 14 Table of Contents • subject us to a greater risk of noncompliance with financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness. The failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. As of December 31, 2006, our debt agreements permitted us to incur substantial additional indebtedness under various financial ratio tests. At December 31, 2006, we had no borrowings outstanding under our $1.575 billion Revolving Credit Facility (2005 Revolver) and $398.7 million in letters of credit drawn on the 2005 Revolver that support our financial assurance obligations, leaving $1.176 billion of availability. To the extent we incur additional debt, the leverage risks described above would increase. We may not generate a sufficient amount of cash to service our indebtedness and alternatives to service our indebtedness may not be effective. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash flow from operations, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, which may be beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate enough cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness. If we do not have enough cash to service our debt, meet other obligations and fund other liquidity needs, we may be required to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of our existing debt or seeking additional equity capital. We cannot assure you that any of these alternatives will be effective, including that any refinancings or restructurings would be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting these alternatives. We may be unable to refinance or repay our debt at maturity, which would cause us to default under our debt instruments. We may need to refinance our senior notes, our senior subordinated notes and/or other indebtedness to pay the principal amounts due at maturity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt obligations at maturity on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to refinance or repay our debt obligations at maturity, it would constitute an event of default under our debt instruments and our lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. We have also refinanced our debt in the past to extend our maturities and reduce higher cost debt and cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness before maturity on commercially reasonable terms or at all in the future. Covenants in our debt instruments may limit our ability to operate our business and any failure by us to comply with such covenants may accelerate our obligation to repay the underlying debt. Our senior credit facility, our indentures and certain of the agreements governing our other indebtedness contain covenants that may limit our ability to operate our business or invest in other businesses. Our agreements also include covenants that restrict our ability to make distributions or other payments to our investors and creditors unless we satisfy certain financial tests, financial ratios or other criteria. Although none of our debt instruments contain net worth covenants, our senior credit facility, for example, requires us to maintain certain Debt/EBITDA and EBITDA/Interest ratios as described in Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. In some cases, our subsidiaries are subject to similar restrictions, which may restrict their ability to make distributions to us. Our senior credit facility, our indentures and other debt agreements also contain affirmative and negative covenants that, among other items, limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make acquisitions and capital expenditures, sell assets, create liens or other encumbrances, and merge or consolidate. All of these restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. Our ability to comply with the covenants contained in our debt instruments may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions or other events beyond our control. If we do not comply with these covenants and restrictions, we could be in default under our senior credit 15 Table of Contents facility, our indentures and other debt agreements and the debt, together with accrued interest, could then be declared immediately due and payable. If we default under our senior credit facility, the lenders could cause all of our outstanding debt obligations under such senior credit facility to become due and payable, require us to apply all of our cash to repay the indebtedness under the facility or prevent us from making debt service payments on any other indebtedness we owe. If we are unable to repay any borrowings when due, the lenders under our senior credit facility could proceed against their collateral, which includes most of the assets we own, including the collateral securing the senior notes and the guarantees. In addition, any default under our senior credit facility or other debt agreements could lead to an acceleration of debt under our other debt instruments that contain cross acceleration or cross-default provisions. If the indebtedness under any of our debt instruments is accelerated, we may not have sufficient assets to repay amounts due. A downgrade in our bond ratings could adversely affect our liquidity by increasing the cost of debt and financial assurance instruments. Our debt instruments contain no ratings-related covenants. However, while downgrades of our bond ratings may not have an immediate impact on the cost of debt or our liquidity, they may impact the cost of debt and liquidity over the near to medium term. If the rating agencies downgrade our debt, this may increase the interest rate we must pay if we issue new debt, and it may even make it prohibitively expensive for us to issue new debt. If our debt ratings are downgraded, future access to financial assurance markets at a reasonable cost, or at all, also may be adversely impacted. Changes in interest rates may negatively affect our results of operations. At December 31, 2006, approximately 80% of our debt was fixed and 20% was floating. At this level of floating rate debt, if interest rates increased by 100 basis points, annualized interest expense would increase by approximately $14.2 million ($8.5 million after tax). Therefore, any increase in interest rates could significantly increase our interest expense and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to obtain necessary financial assurances, it could negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources. We are required to provide financial assurance to governmental agencies and a variety of other entities under applicable environmental regulations relating to our landfill operations and collection contracts. In addition, we are required to provide financial assurance for our self-insurance program. We satisfy the financial assurances requirements by providing performance bonds, letters of credit, insurance policies or trust deposits. As of December 31, 2006, we have total financial assurance requirements of approximately $2.8 billion. Should we experience rating agency downgrades, the mix of financial assurance instruments we can obtain may change and we may be required to obtain additional letters of credit. In the event we are unable to obtain sufficient performance bonds, letters of credit, insurance policies or trust deposits at reasonable costs, or at all, we would need to rely on other forms of financial assurance that may be more expensive to obtain. This could negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources. There may be undisclosed liabilities associated with our acquisitions. In connection with any acquisition made by us, there may be liabilities that we fail to discover or are unable to discover, including liabilities arising from non-compliance with environmental laws by prior owners and for which we, as successor owner, may be responsible. Similarly, we incur capitalized costs associated with acquisitions, which may never be consummated, resulting in a potential charge to earnings. 16 Table of Contents The possibility of disposal site developments, expansion projects or pending acquisitions not being completed or certain other events could result in a material charge against our earnings. In accordance with GAAP, we capitalize certain expenditures relating to disposal site development, expansion projects, acquisitions, software development and other projects. If a facility or operation is permanently shut down or determined to be impaired, a pending acquisition is not completed, a development or expansion project is not completed or is determined to be impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures relating to such facility, acquisition or project that we are unable to recover through sale or otherwise. In future periods, we may be required to incur charges against earnings in accordance with this policy, or due to other events that cause impairments. Depending on the magnitude, any such charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are required to make accounting and tax-related estimates and judgments in the ordinary course of business. The accounting and tax-related estimates and judgments we must make in the ordinary course of business affect the reported amounts of our assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of our operating results during the periods presented as described under “Critical Accounting Judgments and Estimates” in Item 7 in this Form 10-K. Additionally, we are required to interpret the rules and tax law in existence as of the date of the financial statements when the rules are not specific to a particular event or transaction. If the underlying estimates or judgments are ultimately proved to be incorrect, or if auditors or regulators subsequently interpret our application of the rules differently, subsequent corrections could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for the current or prior periods. The introduction of new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our results of operations. Complying with new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely affect our balance sheet, results of operations or funding requirements, or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our results of operations in future periods. For example, the adoption and application of FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes – an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48), beginning in 2007 may the increase volatility of our income tax expense in future years. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 