ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following information sets forth risk factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements that have been made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and those that may be made from time to time. If any of the risks actually occur, the Company’s business, results of operation, prospects or financial condition could be adversely affected. These are not the only risks the Company faces. Additional risks not presently known or that the Company currently deems immaterial may also affect its business and results of operations. The testing process for the Company’s drug candidates is long, costly, and uncertain, and most drug candidates do not get approved. Even if approved for use in humans, the Company’s drug candidates may later prove to be unsafe or ineffective. The Company’s potential drug candidates must go through extensive preclinical (animal) and clinical (human) trials to prove that the drug is safe and effective before it can be commercialized. This extensive testing takes several years, is quite expensive, and more often than not leads to the conclusion that a drug candidate is not suitable for commercialization. A very significant majority (estimated to be greater than 80 to 90 percent) of all drugs which enter human clinical trials fail to reach the market. In addition, the risk of failure is the highest when working on drug targets that have not yet been validated by the successful commercialization of a prior drug (e.g. a “first-in-class” target). Moreover, even if early drug testing appears positive, later testing or the results of usage after commercialization may preclude further use of a drug. In addition, the current regulatory framework could change, or additional regulations could arise at any stage during the Company’s product development or marketing, which may affect the ability to obtain or maintain approval of its products or require it to make significant expenditures to obtain or maintain such approvals. The results of preclinical tests performed on animals are not always accurate predictors of the safety, efficacy, or suitability of drugs in humans. Similarly, the results of initial clinical trials do not necessarily accurately predict the results that will be obtained in the later stages of clinical trials. The appearance of adverse side effects, inadequate therapeutic efficacy or inadequate drug properties could prevent or slow product development efforts at any stage of product development by delaying or preventing clinical trials, delaying or preventing regulatory approval by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities or adversely affecting the commercial potential of a drug candidate. The FDA or the Company may suspend clinical trials at any time if the FDA or the Company believes that the individuals participating in the trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. Even products approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may later exhibit adverse side effects that prevent their widespread use or necessitate their withdrawal from the market. As a result, the Company’s drug candidates may prove to be unsafe or ineffective in humans, produce undesirable side effects, or fail to get through the testing phases preceding commercialization. The technologies on which the Company relies may not result in the discovery or development of commercially viable drugs. The Company’s AIDD™ method of identifying, prioritizing and screening molecular targets is unproven and may not result in the regulatory approval and commercialization of any therapeutic products. If the Company is unable to identify additional drug candidates using its proprietary drug discovery technologies, it may not be able to maintain a clinical development pipeline or generate revenues. Another company, organization or individual could have, or could develop, a technology to discover and develop compounds into drugs more effectively or efficiently than the Company’s screening and other technologies. Such a technology could render the Company’s technologies, and in particular its AIDD™ system, obsolete or noncompetitive. The Company is subject to strict governmental regulation. If the Company cannot obtain product approvals or if it cannot comply with ongoing governmental regulations, its business could be adversely affected. The Company’s products are subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous federal, state and local government agencies both in the United States and in other countries where it intends to test and market its products. The process by which the Company obtains regulatory approval to market a product involves substantial cost and can take many years. The data the Company obtains from preclinical and clinical trials may be subject to varying interpretations which can delay, limit or prevent the approval of the relevant governmental authority. If there are delays or significant unanticipated costs in obtaining regulatory approvals, the Company’s product development efforts and consequently its business could be adversely affected. Government agencies, such as the FDA, may change their view of acceptable endpoints for clinical trials once they have begun, clinical data may not be accepted by the FDA or similar regulatory agencies, or approvals may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. Even if the Company obtains regulatory approval of a drug, the approval may include limitations and restrictions on its use. In addition, 14 the Company’s products are subject to continual regulatory review and any subsequent discovery of previously unrecognized problems could result in restrictions being placed on either the Company or its products. These restrictions could include an order to withdraw a product from the market. The failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can, among other things, result in fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. The Company faces vigorous competition in the areas of drug discovery and development, which may result in others developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than it does. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and is affected by new technologies, governmental regulations, healthcare legislation, availability of financing, litigation and other factors. The Company’s competitors may develop technologies (including drug discovery techniques) and products that are more effective than its own or that are commercialized prior to similar technologies or products of its own. In addition, developments by others may render its products under development or its technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. If the Company’s product candidates receive FDA approval, they will compete with a number of existing and future drugs and therapies developed, manufactured and marketed by others. Existing or future competing products may provide greater therapeutic convenience or clinical or other benefits for a specific indication than its products, or may offer comparable performance at lower costs. If the Company’s products are unable to capture or maintain market share, it will not achieve significant product revenues and its financial condition will be materially adversely affected. The Company competes against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies or other companies that collaborate with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors have products already approved, marketed or in development. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs, have substantially greater financial resources, experience in developing products, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals, formulating and manufacturing drugs, and commercializing drugs than the Company does. If a competitor were to develop and successfully commercialize a drug before a similar one that the Company was working on, it would put the Company at a significant competitive disadvantage. Moreover competition from generic drugs may have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company relies heavily on its collaborative partners for research and development funding and commercialization. The Company depends on its collaborative partners to fund a significant portion of its research and development expenses and to manufacture and market any products that result from such collaborations. In the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, the Company incurred $55.9 million, $38.5 million, and $31.3 million in research and development expenses and recognized $5.3 million, $3.9 million, and $10.3 million respectively, in research and development revenue from corporate partners. Because the Company has not previously advanced a drug candidate through all phases of clinical testing and subsequently to market, it often depends on its collaborative partners with respect to regulatory filings relating to, and the clinical testing of, compounds developed under its collaborations. In particular, the Company depends on Merck to conduct clinical trials for compounds on which it and Merck collaborate in the Company’s VR1 program. The Company’s reliance on collaborative partners, whose interests may not coincide with its interests, exposes it to many risks, including the following: · that a collaborator will halt, delay, or repeat clinical trials; · that a collaborator will alter the amount or timing of resources dedicated to its collaboration with the Company; · that the interests of a collaborator will depart from Neurogen’s interests; · that a collaborator will dispute the Company’s rights under an agreement; · that a collaborator will attempt to independently develop a competing drug on its own or in conjunction with a third party; · that existing collaboration agreements will not be extended; 15 · that a collaborator will not continue to develop a drug candidate after a collaboration agreement has ended; and · that a collaborator will breach or terminate an agreement with the Company. If any of these risks were to occur, the research program in question, and possibly the Company’s business, would be adversely affected. The Company’s existing collaboration with Merck may be unsuccessful and the Company may not receive any future milestone payments or royalties. If the Company’s collaboration with Merck is not continued or is unsuccessful, its product development efforts and consequently business would be materially adversely affected. If Merck does not continue the development of its compounds under the Company’s VR1 collaborations, the Company may not be able to do so on its own. The Company’s current collaboration with Merck is subject to certain development restrictions. Specifically, Merck has the right to determine when and if to advance compounds in the clinical process. Delays or discontinuation of any of the Company’s collaborative programs could significantly decrease the probability of its ever achieving product revenues. This could negatively impact our ability to access capital and would increase the cost of capital. In addition, the Company may not be able to find suitable partners for any new collaborations it may seek to enter. Any new collaborations would likely be subject to some or all of the same risks as the Company’s existing collaboration with Merck. A consequence of its dependence on collaborative arrangements is that the Company’s potential upside is smaller if a successful product emerges than it would be if the Company successfully commercialized a product on its own. Historically, the Company has entered into strategic collaborations with large pharmaceutical companies to develop and commercialize new drugs. Under its collaboration agreement with Merck, the Company has granted Merck the exclusive worldwide license to manufacture, use and sell jointly developed products. While collaborations have allowed the Company to largely recoup its research and development expenses and avoid risking its own capital on these activities, they have, in most cases, limited its upside to receiving royalties based on net sales levels should a successful drug result. The Company periodically explores new strategic alliances and transactions that may never materialize or that may fail. The Company periodically explores a variety of potential alliances and transactions in an effort to gain access to additional complementary resources. Such alliances or transactions may include joint ventures, asset acquisitions or dispositions, strategic partnerships, divestitures and business combinations. The Company cannot predict what form such alliance or transaction may take, if any. Strategic alliances could result in: the issuance of additional equity securities that would dilute stockholders’ ownership percentage; the expenditure of substantial operational, financial, and management resources in integrating new businesses, technologies, and products; which could disrupt its management or business; the assumption of substantial actual or contingent liabilities; the incurrence of non-recurring or other charges; or a business combination featuring terms that stockholders may not deem desirable, any of which could harm its operations and financial results. There have been a significant number of recent business combinations among large pharmaceutical companies that have reduced the number of potential future collaborators. If business combinations involving the Company’s collaborators were to occur, such combinations could diminish, terminate or cause delays in one or more of the Company’s collaborations. Developing the Company’s drug candidates, particularly its unpartnered product candidates, will require significant additional expenditures. The Company is not certain how much capital it may need, and it may have difficulty raising needed capital in the future on favorable terms or at all. The Company has spent and will continue to spend substantial funds to complete the research, development and clinical testing of its products. In the future the Company expects to need additional funds for these purposes as well as to establish additional clinical- and commercial-scale manufacturing arrangements and to provide for the marketing and distribution of its products. The Company may not be able to acquire additional funds on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In particular, carrying out the development of its unpartnered product candidates to later stages of development and developing other research programs to the stage that they may be partnered, if at all, will require significant additional expenditures, including the expenses associated with preclinical testing, clinical trials and other product development activities. If the Company cannot obtain adequate capital, it may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of its research or development programs. Such a reduction would concentrate its risks in fewer programs. 16 The Company’s future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: · the continued progress of its research and development programs; · its ability to market and distribute any products it develops; · its ability to establish new collaborative and licensing arrangements; · changes in its existing collaborative relationships; · progress with preclinical studies and clinical trials; · the time and costs involved in pursuing regulatory clearance; · the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; and · competing technological and market developments. The Company may seek to raise any necessary additional funds through equity or debt financings, collaborative arrangements with corporate partners or other sources which may dilute the ownership interest of its existing stockholders. In addition, in the event that the Company obtains additional funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or other sources, these arrangements may require it to give up rights to some of its technologies, product candidates or products under development that it would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize on its own. The Company’s patents, trade secrets and confidentiality agreements with collaborators, employees and others may be invalid or inadequate to protect its intellectual property. If the Company or its collaborators are unable to adequately protect or enforce the Company’s intellectual property, its competitive position could be impaired. The Company’s success depends in large part on its ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secrets and operate without infringing on the intellectual property rights of third parties. The Company files patent applications both in the United States and in foreign countries to protect both its products and its processes. The intellectual property rights of biotechnology and pharmaceutical firms are highly uncertain and involve many complex legal and technical issues. The Company’s patent applications may not be successful or its current or future patents may not provide sufficient protection against its competitors. The Company’s patents could be successfully challenged or patents held by others could preclude it from commercializing its products. Litigation to establish the validity of patents, to defend against infringement claims or to assert infringement claims against others can be lengthy and expensive. Moreover, much of the Company’s expertise and technology cannot be patented or, if patented, cannot be readily monitored for infringement. The Company also relies heavily on trade secrets (for example, its AIDDTM system is not patented, but its proprietary elements are protected as trade secrets) and confidentiality agreements with collaborators, advisors, employees, consultants, vendors and others to protect the proprietary nature of its products. These agreements may be breached with or without the Company’s knowledge, or the Company’s trade secrets may otherwise become known or independently discovered by competitors. The Company’s product development efforts and consequently its business would be adversely affected if its competitors were able to learn its secrets or if it was unable to protect its intellectual property. If the Company does not obtain protection under the Hatch-Waxman Act and similar foreign legislation to extend its patents and to obtain market exclusivity for any product candidates that it may bring to market, the Company’s business could be materially harmed. The United States Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, more commonly known as the “Hatch-Waxman Act,” provides for an extension of patent protection for drug compounds for a period of up to five years to compensate for time spent in development. In particular, the Company expects to rely on Hatch-Waxman extension of the primary patent protecting Aplindore. The patent would otherwise be scheduled to expire in 2016. 17 Additionally, a recent directive in the European Union provides that companies who receive regulatory approval for a new compound will have a 10-year period of market exclusivity for that compound (with the possibility of a further one-year extension) in most EU countries, beginning on the date of such European regulatory approval, regardless of when the European new chemical entity patent covering such compound expires. A generic version of the approved drug may not be marketed or sold in EU countries during such exclusivity period. However, there is no assurance that the Company will receive extensions of its patents or other exclusive rights available under the Hatch-Waxman Act or similar foreign legislation. If the Company fails to receive such extensions and exclusive rights, its ability to prevent competitors from manufacturing, marketing and selling generic versions of its products in the EU and other foreign countries would be materially harmed. The Company is subject to uncertainties regarding healthcare reimbursement and reform. In the event that it is successful in bringing a product to market, its revenues may be adversely affected if it fails to obtain acceptable prices or adequate reimbursement for the cost of its products from third-party payors. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other payers of healthcare costs to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may affect the Company’s future revenues and profitability, the future revenues and profitability of its potential customers, suppliers and collaborative partners, and the availability of capital. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. In the United States, both the federal and state governments will likely continue to focus on healthcare reform, the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and reform of the Medicare and Medicaid systems. While the Company cannot predict whether any such proposals will be adopted, the announcement or adoption of such proposals could negatively impact its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s ability to market its products successfully will depend, in part, on the extent to which appropriate reimbursements for the cost of its products and related treatments are available from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as HMOs. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Third-party payors, including Medicare, are constantly challenging the prices charged for pharmaceutical products and medical services. If third-party payors institute cost containment measures or fail to approve the Company’s products for reimbursement, its future sales may be adversely affected, as patients will opt for a competing product that is approved for reimbursement or will forgo treatment completely. The Company may be unable to attract and retain qualified management and technical personnel. The success of the Company’s business depends, in large part, on its continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified management and scientific personnel. The Company faces significant competition for such individuals from other companies, academic institutions and other organizations. In addition, as the Company advances its programs into later stages of development, it is necessary to recruit additional scientists with later stage development experience, including some areas where the Company has relied in whole or in part on consultants or vendors in the past. In particular, the Company is expanding its staff in the areas of formulations research, analytical chemistry, medical affairs, drug metabolism, toxicology and clinical operations. The Company cannot assure investors that it will be able to attract or retain qualified personnel or that the costs of retaining such personnel will not materially increase. The failure to attract and retain key personnel, or the loss of any of the Company’s current management team and its inability to adequately replace such individuals on a timely basis could adversely affect its business and financial condition. The Company relies on third parties for its manufacturing requirements and cannot assure investors that it will be able to manufacture its products on a timely and competitive basis. To complete its clinical trials and to commercialize its product candidates, the Company needs access to, or to develop its own, facilities to manufacture a sufficient supply of its product candidates. Today, the Company depends on its collaborators or third parties’ FDA-approved manufacturing facilities to manufacture its compounds for pre-clinical, clinical and commercial purposes. The Company’s products may be in competition with other products for access to these facilities. Consequently, its products may be subject to manufacturing delays if collaborators or outside contractors give other companies’ products greater priority than its products. For this and other reasons, the Company’s collaborators’ or third parties’ service providers may not be able to 18 manufacture its products in a cost-effective or timely manner. If not manufactured in a timely manner, the clinical trial development of the Company’s product candidates or their submission for regulatory approval could be delayed, and its ability to deliver products to market on a timely basis could be impaired or precluded. The Company may not be able to enter into any third-party manufacturing arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all. The Company does not intend to develop or acquire facilities to manufacture its product candidates for clinical trials or commercial purposes in the foreseeable future. In its ongoing collaboration with the Company, Merck is responsible for manufacturing or obtaining clinical and commercial supplies of pharmaceutical compounds. In the Company’s unpartnered programs, it utilizes third parties to prepare and formulate pharmaceutical compounds for use in clinical studies. The Company’s current dependence upon others for the manufacture of its products may reduce its future profit margin and limit its ability to commercialize products on a timely and competitive basis. The Company lacks sales experience. The Company currently has no sales or distribution experience with its own products. Currently, the Company intends to rely primarily on existing or future collaborative partners for this expertise if one of its products is successfully commercialized. Therefore, to service markets for any areas in which it has retained sales and marketing rights or in the event that any of its collaborative agreements is terminated, the Company must develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise. The Company has no experience in developing, training or managing a marketing and sales force and would incur substantial additional expenses in developing, training and managing such a force. The Company may be unable to build a marketing and sales force, the cost of establishing such a force may exceed any product revenues, or its direct marketing and sales efforts may be unsuccessful. In addition, the Company competes with many other companies that currently have extensive and well-funded marketing and sales operations. The Company’s marketing and sales efforts may be unable to compete successfully against such companies. Moreover, even if the Company or one of its partners is able to bring a product to market, the Company cannot assure investors that the products will gain acceptance among physicians, patients or third-party payors. The Company’s business exposes it to clinical trial and product liability claims. The Company faces an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of one of its products is alleged to have caused an adverse effect on patients. This risk exists for products being tested in human clinical trials, as well as products that receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. Manufacturers of pharmaceuticals have been the subject of significant product liability litigation, and the Company cannot assure investors that it will not be threatened with or become subject to such a claim. The Company maintains limited product liability insurance for compounds it is testing in clinical trials. When the Company’s partners have rights to develop and commercialize a collaboration product they typically indemnify the Company, with certain exceptions, for collaborative compounds they are testing in clinical trials. The Company intends to seek additional product liability insurance coverage if and when its products are commercialized. It may not, however, be able to obtain such insurance at acceptable costs, if at all, or such coverage, if obtained, may not be adequate to cover any claims. If the Company cannot obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, it could be prevented from commercializing its products. If the Company becomes subject to a product liability claim where claims or losses exceed its liability insurance coverage and its ability to pay, it may go out of business. The Company’s business involves hazardous materials and the risk of environmental liability. In connection with its research and development activities, the Company is subject to federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials, biological specimens and wastes. Although the Company believes that it has complied with the applicable laws, rules, regulations and policies in all material respects and has not been required to correct any noncompliance which is material to its business, it may incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety regulations in the future. The Company’s research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, including but not limited to certain hazardous chemicals and radioactive materials. Although it believes that its safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by local, state and federal regulations, the Company cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an occurrence, the Company could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed its resources. The price of the Company’s common stock may be volatile. 19 The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies, including the Company, have historically been highly volatile. For example, from January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2006, the intra-day market price of the Company’s stock was as low as $4.34 per share and as high as $7.61 per share. The volatile price of the Company’s stock makes it difficult for investors to predict the value of their investment, to sell shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. Investors may not be able to sell their shares at a profit due to fluctuations in the market price of the Company’s common stock arising from a decline in its operating performance or prospects. In addition, the stock markets in general, and the markets for biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, including: · announcements by the Company or its competitors of regulatory developments, preclinical testing and clinical trial results, clinical trial enrollment, regulatory filings, new products and product launches, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; · any intellectual property infringement, product liability or any other litigation involving the Company; · technological innovations or new therapeutic products; · developments or disputes concerning the Company's patents or other proprietary rights; · regulatory changes or developments; · general market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; · comments by securities analysts; · economic or other crises and other external factors; · public concern as to the safety of products developed by the Company or others; · actual or anticipated period-to-period fluctuations in the Company’s results of operations; · the Company’s ability to raise capital; · departure of any of the Company’s key management personnel; or · sales of the Company’s common stock. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for the Company’s common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit investors’ ability to readily sell their shares and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity or value of the Company’s common stock. The Company may be at risk of securities class action litigation. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for the Company because biotechnology companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years. If the Company were to face such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could harm the Company’s business. 20 The Company’s current stockholders have significant control of its management and affairs. The Company’s executive officers and directors and holders of greater than five percent of its outstanding common stock, together with entities that may be deemed affiliates of, or related to, such persons or entities, beneficially owned greater than 50 percent of its common stock as of December 31, 2006. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, may be able to control the Company’s management and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations or the sale of substantially all of its assets. The interests of the Company’s current major stockholders may not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders and they may take actions to advance their respective interests to the detriment of other stockholders. If the Company’s stockholders sell substantial amounts of its common stock, the market price of its common stock may fall. If the Company’s stockholders sell substantial amounts of its common stock including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, the market price of its common stock may fall. These sales may also make it more difficult for the Company to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that it deems appropriate. The Company matches employee contributions into the Neurogen Corporation 401(k) Retirement Plan with shares of Neurogen common stock. Due to the recently enacted Pension Protection Act (the “PPA”) of 2006, on January 2, 2007, funds representing approximately 200,000 shares of the Company’s stock held in the Plan, which were deposited over a period of several years as Company matching contributions, became available for transfer by participants in the Plan to other investment options within the Plan. In addition, all new matching contributions into the Plan will be freely transferable. If Plan participants choose to transfer their matched stock from prior to January 2, 2007 into other investment options within the Plan, some or all of the 200,000 shares may then be sold by the Plan on the NASDAQ Stock Market. Prior to the implementation of the PPA, a participant in the Plan was not allowed to trade his or her matched stock until the participant terminated employment and withdrew his or her plan balance. Before January 2009, an additional 330,000 shares of stock in the Plan deposited as matched contributions made prior to January 2, 2007 will become eligible for transfer to other investment options within the Plan. To the extent that participants holding an interest in such shares elect to transfer amounts to other funds, such shares could be sold by the Plan on the NASDAQ Stock Market. Future sales of the Company’s common stock in the public market could lower the stock price. The Company has in the past and may in the future sell additional shares of its common stock in public offerings. The Company may also issue additional shares of our common stock to finance its research and development and commercialization activities. Additionally, a substantial number of shares of its common stock are available for future sale pursuant to stock options granted to certain of its officers and its employees and pursuant to registration rights granted to certain holders of its stock. The Company cannot predict the size of future issuances of its common stock, if any, or the effect, if any, that such future sales and issuances will have on the market price of its common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of the Company’s common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for the Company’s common stock. Because the Company does not expect to pay dividends on its common stock, investors in the Company’s common stock will not realize any income from their investment unless and until they sell their shares at a profit. The Company has never declared or paid dividends on its common stock in the past and it does not expect to pay any dividends on its common stock for the foreseeable future. Investors will only realize income from an investment in the Company’s shares to the extent that they sell or otherwise dispose of their shares at a price higher than the price they paid for their shares. Such a gain would result only from an increase in the market price of the Company’s common stock, which is uncertain and unpredictable. The Company anticipates future losses and may never become profitable. The Company’s future financial results are uncertain. The Company has experienced significant losses since it commenced operations in 1987. The Company’s accumulated net losses as of December 31, 2006 were $232.4 million. These losses 21 have primarily resulted from expenses associated with its research and development activities, including pre-clinical and clinical trials, and general and administrative expenses. The Company anticipates that its research and development expenses will remain significant in the future and it expects to incur losses over at least the next several years as it continues its research and development efforts, pre-clinical testing and clinical trials and, if implemented, manufacturing, marketing and sales programs. As a result, the Company cannot predict when or whether it will become profitable, and if it does, it may not remain profitable for any substantial period of time. If the Company fails to achieve profitability within the timeframe expected by investors, the market price of its common stock may decline making its business unsustainable. Limitation on the Use of Net Operating Loss Carryforwards (“NOLs”) and Tax Credits. The Company’s ability to utilize its NOLs and tax credits may be limited if it undergoes or has undergone an ownership change, as defined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, as a result of changes in the ownership of outstanding stock. An ownership change generally occurs if the percentage of stock owned by one or more stockholders who own, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the value of the Company’s outstanding stock (or are otherwise treated as 5% stockholders under section 382 and the regulations promulgated thereunder) has increased by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the Company’s outstanding stock owned by these stockholders at any time during the testing period, which is generally the three-year period preceding the potential ownership change. In the event of an ownership change, section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post-ownership change taxable income a corporation may offset with pre-ownership change NOLs. In 2006, the Company reviewed its changes in ownership through a testing date of December 31, 2005, and determined that an ownership change occurred in 2005. The change of ownership did not have the effect of reducing the amount of NOLs but has limited approximately $1.1 million of the tax credits existing at the date of the ownership change that the Company may utilize in the taxable years following the change. Delaware Law and our Charter and Bylaws may Impede or Discourage a Takeover, Which Could Cause the Market Price of Our Shares to Decline. The Company is a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of the Company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, the Company’s board of directors has the power, without stockholders’ approval, to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock, which could be used defensively if a takeover is threatened. The Company’s certificate of incorporation and by-laws provide for restrictions on who may call a special meeting of stockholders. The Company’s incorporation under Delaware law, the ability of our board of directors to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market value of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 