ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors are arranged in three groups: industry risk – risks we face because we are in the pharmaceutical industry; company risk – risks that are specific to us; and investment risk – risks that are specifically tied to our securities. Within each group, we have tried to list the most significant risk factors first. These risk factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from what we have predicted in forward-looking statements that have been made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and those that may have been made previously or may be made in the future. Industry Risk Testing of drug candidates takes a long time, is very expensive, is subject to strict government regulation, and most drug candidates never receive FDA approval. Even if approved for use in humans, our drug candidates may later prove to be unsafe or ineffective. Our potential drug candidates must go through extensive animal and human testing to prove that each drug candidate is safe and effective before it can be marketed. Our lead drug candidate is in development in two separate Phase 2 development programs and is prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. We will need to successfully complete a great deal of additional testing before we can demonstrate that this product candidate is safe and effective to the satisfaction of the FDA. This extensive testing takes several years, is quite expensive, and more often than not leads to the conclusion that a drug candidate is not suitable for use in patients. A very significant majority of all drugs that enter human testing fail to reach the market. Moreover, even if early drug testing appears positive, the results of later testing or problems seen with widespread use of the drug may block further sale of a drug. In addition, regulations may be changed at any stage during product development or marketing, which may affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of any product or require significant expenditures to obtain or maintain such approvals. The results of animal testing do not always accurately predict the safety and effectiveness of drugs when used in humans. Similarly, the results of initial human testing do not always accurately predict the results that will be obtained in the later stages of testing. The appearance of harmful side effects or inadequate effectiveness could slow or stop product development efforts at any stage. The continued human testing of our lead products for RLS and Parkinson’s disease could be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: § limited number of, and competition for, suitable patients required for enrollment in clinical trials; § limited number of, and competition for, suitable patients required for enrollment in clinical trials; § limited number of, and competition for, suitable sites to conduct clinical trials; § delay or failure to obtain FDA approval or agreement to commence a clinical trial; § delay or failure to obtain sufficient supplies of the drug candidates for trials; § delay or failure to obtain sufficient supplies of the drug candidates for trials; § delay or failure to reach agreement on acceptable clinical trial agreement terms or clinical trial protocols with prospective sites or investigators; and § delay or failure to obtain institutional review board, or IRB, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site. Page 11 Table of Contents Human testing of our current or any future drug candidates may be suspended or terminated at any time by the FDA, other regulatory authorities, the IRB overseeing the clinical trial at issue, any of its clinical trial sites with respect to that site, or us. Any failure or significant delay in completing human testing of our product candidates could materially harm our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates. The completion of human testing could also be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: § slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment; § failure of patients to complete the clinical trial; § unforeseen safety issues; § lack of efficacy evidenced during clinical trials; § termination of our human testing by one or more clinical trial sites; § inability or unwillingness of patients or medical investigators to follow our clinical trial protocols; and § inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment Even products approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may later exhibit adverse side effects that prevent their widespread use or necessitate their withdrawal from the market. As a result, our current or any future drug candidates may prove to be unsafe or ineffective in humans, produce undesirable side effects, or fail to get through the testing phases preceding commercialization. We anticipate future losses and may never become profitable. Our recurring losses, negative cash flows from operations and significant accumulated deficit raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our future financial results are uncertain. We have experienced significant losses and negative cash flows from operations since we commenced operations in 1987. Our accumulated net losses as of December 31, 2008 were $322.4 million. These losses have primarily resulted from expenses associated with our research and development activities, including pre-clinical and clinical trials and general and administrative expenses. We anticipate that our research and development expenses will remain significant in the future, and we expect to incur losses over at least the next several years as we continue our research and development efforts, pre-clinical testing, clinical trials and, if implemented, manufacturing, marketing and sales programs. As a result, we cannot predict when or whether we will become profitable, and if we do, we may not remain profitable for any substantial period of time. If we fail to achieve profitability within the timeframe expected by investors, the market price of our common stock may decline making our business unsustainable. The Report of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to our audited financial statements for the period ended December 31, 2008 included in this Annual Report indicates that there are a number of factors that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our current operating funds are insufficient to complete all currently planned clinical trials and commercialization of our product candidates, and therefore, we will need to obtain additional financing in order to complete our business plan. We currently have minimal operations, and we have no income. If we are not able to continue as a going concern, it is likely that investors will lose all or a part of their investment. Our patents, trade secrets and confidentiality agreements with collaborators, employees and others may be invalid or inadequate to protect our intellectual property. If we or our collaborators are unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property, our competitive position could be impaired. Our success depends in large part on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secrets Page 12 Table of Contents and operate without infringing on the intellectual property rights of third parties. We file patent applications both in the United States and in foreign countries to protect both our products and our processes. The intellectual property rights of biotechnology and pharmaceutical firms are highly uncertain and involve many complex legal and technical issues. Our patent applications may not be successful or our current or future patents may not provide sufficient protection against our competitors. Our patents could be successfully challenged or patents held by others could preclude us from commercializing our products. Litigation to establish the validity of patents, to defend against infringement claims or to assert infringement claims against others can be lengthy and expensive. Moreover, much of our expertise and technology cannot be patented or, if patented, cannot be readily monitored for infringement. We also rely heavily on trade secrets. When we do so, the intellectual property is protected by, among other things, confidentiality agreements with collaborators, advisors, employees, consultants, vendors and others. These agreements may be breached with or without our knowledge, or our trade secrets may otherwise become known or independently discovered by competitors. Our product development efforts and consequently our business would be adversely affected if our competitors were able to learn our secrets or if we were unable to protect our intellectual property. If we do not obtain protection under the Hatch-Waxman Act and similar foreign legislation to extend our patents and to obtain market exclusivity for any product candidates that we may bring to market, our business could be materially harmed. The United States Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, more commonly known as the “Hatch-Waxman Act,” provides for an extension of patent protection for drug compounds for a period of up to five years to compensate for time spent in development. In particular, we expect to rely on Hatch-Waxman extension of the primary patent protecting Aplindore. The patent would otherwise be scheduled to expire in 2016. Additionally, a recent directive in the European Union provides that companies who receive regulatory approval for a new compound will have a 10-year period of market exclusivity for that compound (with the possibility of a further one-year extension) in most EU countries, beginning on the date of such European regulatory approval, regardless of when the European new chemical entity patent covering such compound expires. A generic version of the approved drug may not be marketed or sold in EU countries during such exclusivity period. However, there is no assurance that we will receive extensions of our patents or other exclusive rights available under the Hatch-Waxman Act or similar foreign legislation. If we fail to receive such extensions and exclusive rights, our ability to prevent competitors from manufacturing, marketing and selling generic versions of our products in the EU and other foreign countries would be materially harmed. The drug development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation, and we may be involved in costly intellectual property lawsuits. The drug development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation, and we believe these lawsuits are likely to continue. Legal proceedings relating to intellectual property would be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. There could be issued patents of which we are not aware that our products infringe or patents that we believe we do not infringe that we are ultimately found to infringe. Moreover, patent applications are in many cases maintained in secrecy for eighteen months after filing or even until patents are issued. The publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made and patent applications were filed. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that we infringe with our products. In addition, technology created under our research and development collaborations may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, in which case we may not receive milestone or royalty revenue from those collaborations. If we do not prevail in an infringement lawsuit brought against us, we might have to pay substantial damages, including triple damages, and we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license to use the patented technology or redesign our products so as not to infringe the patent. We may not be able to enter into licensing arrangements at a reasonable cost or effectively redesign our products. Any inability to secure licenses or Page 13 Table of Contents alternative technology could delay the introduction of our products or prevent us from manufacturing or selling products. Our business exposes us to clinical trial and product liability claims. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of one of our products is alleged to have caused an adverse effect on patients. This risk exists for products being tested in human clinical trials, as well as products that receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. Manufacturers of pharmaceuticals have been the subject of significant product liability litigation, and we cannot assure investors that we will not be threatened with or become subject to such a claim. We maintain limited product liability insurance for compounds we are testing in clinical trials. When our partners have rights to develop and commercialize a collaboration product, they typically indemnify us, with certain exceptions, for collaborative compounds they are testing in clinical trials. We intend to seek additional product liability insurance coverage if and when our products are commercialized. We may not, however, be able to obtain such insurance at acceptable costs, if at all, or such coverage, if obtained, may not be adequate to cover any claims. If we cannot obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we could be prevented from commercializing our products. If we become subject to a product liability claim where claims or losses exceed our liability insurance coverage and our ability to pay, we may go out of business. Our business involves hazardous materials and the risk of environmental liability. In connection with our research and development activities, we are subject to federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials, biological specimens and wastes. Although we believe that we have complied with the applicable laws, rules, regulations and policies in all material respects and have not been required to correct any noncompliance which is material to our business, we may incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety regulations in the future. Our research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, including but not limited to certain hazardous chemicals and radioactive materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by local, state and federal regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an occurrence, we could be held liable for any damages that result and any such liability could exceed our resources. We face vigorous competition in the areas of drug development, which may result in others developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and is affected by new technologies, governmental regulations, healthcare legislation, availability of financing, litigation and other factors. Our competitors may develop technologies, including drug discovery techniques, and products that are more effective than our own or that are commercialized prior to similar technologies or products of our own. In addition, developments by others may render our products under development or our technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. If our product candidates receive FDA approval, they will compete with a number of existing and future drugs and therapies developed, manufactured and marketed by others. Existing or future competing products may provide greater therapeutic convenience or clinical or other benefits for a specific indication than our products, or may offer comparable performance at lower costs. If our products are unable to capture or maintain market share, we will not achieve significant product revenues and our financial condition will be materially adversely affected. We compete against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies or other companies that collaborate with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors have products already approved, marketed or in development. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs, have substantially greater financial resources, customer relationships, experience in developing products, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals, formulating and manufacturing drugs, and commercializing drugs than we do. If a competitor were to develop and successfully commercialize a drug before a Page 14 Table of Contents similar one that we were working on, it would put us at a significant competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our product sales. We are subject to uncertainties regarding healthcare reimbursement and reform. In the event that we are successful in bringing a product to market, our revenues may be adversely affected if we fail to obtain acceptable prices or adequate reimbursement for the cost of our products from third-party payors. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other payers of healthcare costs to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may affect our future revenues and profitability, the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborative partners, and the availability of capital. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. In the United States, both the federal and state governments will likely continue to focus on healthcare reform, the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and reform of the Medicare and Medicaid systems. While we cannot predict whether any such proposals will be adopted, the announcement or adoption of such proposals could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to market our products successfully will depend, in part, on the extent to which appropriate reimbursements for the cost of our products and related treatments are available from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as HMOs. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Third-party payors, including Medicare, are constantly challenging the prices charged for pharmaceutical products and medical services. If third-party payors institute cost containment measures or fail to approve our products for reimbursement, our future sales may be adversely affected, as patients will opt for a competing product that is approved for reimbursement or will forgo treatment completely. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified management and technical personnel or retain our senior management. Our success depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our management team. The efforts of key members of the management team will be critical to us as we grow and attempt to transition to a company with commercial products. A substantial portion of the annual bonus compensation paid to our senior executives has in recent years been paid in the form of equity-based awards. The value of these awards has been impacted by the significant decline in the market price of our common stock. We also have significantly reduced the number of employees across nearly all of our departments during 2008 from approximately 145 employees to approximately 30 employees. The combination of these events could have a significant adverse impact on our ability to retain and hire the most qualified employees. If we were to lose one or more of our key managers, we may experience difficulties in competing effectively, developing our technologies and implementing our business strategy. In addition, the success of our business depends, in large part, on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified management and scientific personnel. As we advance our programs into later stages of development, it is necessary to recruit additional scientists with later stage development experience, including some areas where we have relied in whole or in part on consultants or vendors in the past. In particular, we may need to expand staffing in the areas of formulations research, analytical chemistry, medical affairs, drug metabolism, toxicology and clinical operations. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to attract or retain qualified personnel or that the costs of retaining such individuals will not materially increase. This could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Company Risk Developing our drug candidates, particularly our unpartnered product candidates, will require significant additional expenditures. We are not certain how much capital we may need, and we may have difficulty raising needed capital in the future on favorable terms or at all. We have spent and will continue to spend substantial funds to complete the research, development and clinical testing of our products. In the future, we expect to need additional funds for these purposes as well as to establish Page 15 Table of Contents additional clinical-scale and commercial-scale manufacturing arrangements and to provide for the marketing and distribution of our products. In particular, carrying out the development of our lead product candidate for two indications to later stages of development will require significant additional expenditures, including the expenses associated with clinical trials and other product development activities. We do not have sufficient funds to advance these product candidates to market and may not be able to acquire the necessary additional funds on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We have already suspended all of our development activities except for those related to RLS and Parkinson’s. If we cannot obtain adequate capital, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: § the continued progress of our research and development programs; § our ability to market and distribute any products it develops; § our ability to establish new collaborative and licensing arrangements; § progress with preclinical studies and clinical trials; § the time and costs involved in pursuing regulatory clearance; § the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; and § competing technological and market developments. We may seek to raise any necessary additional funds through equity or debt financings, collaborative arrangements with corporate partners or other sources. We cannot assure you that financing will be available when needed, or on favorable terms or at all. The current economic environment combined with a number of other factors pose additional challenges in securing adequate financing under acceptable terms. If additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities would result in dilution to our existing stockholders or result in the issuance of securities that provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to that of our common stockholders. In addition, in the event that we obtain additional funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or other sources, these arrangements may require us to give up rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products under development that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize on our own. These conditions may increase the costs to raise capital. Our failure to raise capital when needed would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and could force us to reduce or discontinue operations. We may experience difficulties, delays or unexpected costs in completing and achieving the anticipated benefits of our restructuring plan. In February and April 2008, we announced reductions in force as part of a restructuring plan to focus our resources on advancing our remaining unpartnered clinical programs. We incurred restructuring charges, primarily associated with severance benefits, of approximately $5.1 million in 2008. We cannot provide assurance that we will achieve the targeted benefits under these programs or that the benefits, even if achieved, will be adequate to meet long-term growth expectations. Furthermore, the restructuring efforts may yield unanticipated consequences, such as increased burden on administrative, operational, and financial resources and increased responsibilities for management personnel. As a result, the ability to respond to unexpected challenges may be impaired and we may be unable to take advantage of new opportunities. In connection with the restructurings, we reduced our workforce by approximately 115 employees. Employees whose positions were eliminated in connection with this reduction may seek future employment with competitors. Although all employees are required to sign a confidentiality agreement at the time of hire, there can be no assurance that the confidential nature of proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. Any additional restructuring efforts could divert the attention of management away from operations, Page 16 Table of Contents harm our reputation and increase expenses. There can be no assurance that we will not undertake additional restructuring activities, that any of the restructuring efforts will be successful, or that we will be able to realize the cost savings and other anticipated benefits from previous or future restructuring plans. We rely on our collaborative partners for research and development funding and for possible future commercialization. We have in the past relied, and expect in the future to further rely, on our collaborative partners to fund a significant portion of our research and development expenses and to manufacture and market any products that result from such collaborations. In the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, we incurred $31.6 million, $61.0 million and $55.9 million in research and development expenses, respectively, and recognized $0 million, $4.6 million and $5.3 million, respectively, in research and development revenue from corporate partners. Because we have not previously advanced a drug candidate through all phases of clinical testing and subsequently to market, we often depend on our collaborative partners with respect to regulatory filings relating to, and the clinical testing of, compounds developed under our collaborations. Our reliance on collaborative partners, whose interests may not coincide with our interests, exposes us to many risks, including the following: § that a collaborator will halt, delay, or repeat clinical trials; § that a collaborator will alter the amount or timing of resources dedicated to its collaboration with us; § that a collaborator will dispute our rights under an agreement; § that a collaborator will attempt to independently develop a competing drug on its own or in conjunction with a third party; § that existing collaboration agreements will not be extended; § that a collaborator will not continue to develop a drug candidate after a collaboration agreement has ended; and § that a collaborator will breach or terminate an agreement with us. If any of these risks were to occur, the research program in question, and possibly our business, would be adversely affected. In particular, we depend on Merck to conduct clinical trials for compounds on which we collaborate with Merck in our VR1 program. Our existing collaboration with Merck may be unsuccessful, and we may not receive any future milestone payments or royalties. If our collaboration with Merck is not continued or is unsuccessful, our product development efforts and consequently business would be materially adversely affected. If Merck does not continue the development of its compounds under our VR1 collaborations, we may not be able to do so on our own. Our current collaboration with Merck is subject to certain development restrictions. Specifically, Merck has the right to determine when and if to advance compounds in the clinical process. Delays or discontinuation of any of our collaborative programs could significantly decrease the probability of us ever achieving product revenues. This could negatively impact our ability to access capital and would increase the cost of capital. We utilize outside clinical investigators to execute our clinical development plans for wholly-owned drug programs and plans to rely on these third parties to conduct future clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our current and future product candidates. We rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to conduct some or all of our clinical trials of product candidates. Although we rely on these Page 17 Table of Contents third parties to conduct clinical trials, we are responsible for ensuring that each of the clinical trials is conducted in accordance with our investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, or GCPs, for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are scientifically credible and accurate and that the trial subjects are adequately informed of the potential risks of participating in clinical trials. Reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. If the third parties conducting our clinical trials do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, do not meet expected deadlines or need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical trial protocols, GCPs or for any other reason, we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties and our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. In addition, a failure by such third parties to perform their obligations in compliance with our clinical trial protocols or GCPs, may result in our clinical trials not meeting regulatory requirements and or clinical trials may need to be repeated, which would jeopardize obtaining regulatory approval for the product candidate being tested in such trials. We rely on third parties for our manufacturing requirements and cannot assure investors that we will be able to manufacture our products on a timely and competitive basis. To complete our clinical trials and to commercialize our product candidates, we need access to or to develop our own facilities to manufacture a sufficient supply of our product candidates. Currently, we depend on our collaborators or third parties’ FDA-approved manufacturing facilities to manufacture our compounds for pre-clinical, clinical and commercial purposes. Our product candidates require precise, high quality manufacturing. We and our contract manufacturers will be subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. If we and our contract manufacturers fail to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards in compliance with cGMP regulations, we may experience manufacturing errors resulting in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or interruptions of production or failures in product testing or delivery, delay or prevention of filing or approval of marketing applications for our products, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business. To date, our product candidates have been manufactured in small quantities for preclinical studies and clinical trials. If in the future one of our product candidates is approved for commercial sale, we will need to manufacture that product in larger quantities. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require additional validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. Additionally, any third party manufacturer we retain to manufacture product candidates on a commercial scale must pass an FDA pre-approval inspection for conformance to the cGMPs before we can obtain approval of product candidates. If we are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate in conformance to cGMPs, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of any related products may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply. Any performance failure on the part of us or our contract manufacturers could delay clinical development or regulatory approval of product candidates or commercialization of our future products, depriving us of potential product revenue and resulting in additional losses. In addition, our dependence on a third party for manufacturing may adversely affect our future profit margins. Our ability to replace an existing manufacturer may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited, and the FDA must approve any replacement manufacturer before we can begin manufacturing our product candidates. Such approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. It may be difficult or impossible for us to identify and engage a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all. Our products may be in competition with other products for access to these facilities. Consequently, our products may be subject to manufacturing delays if collaborators or outside contractors give other companies’ products greater priority than our products. For this and other reasons, our collaborators’ or third parties’ service providers may not be able to manufacture our products in a cost-effective or timely manner. If not manufactured in a timely manner, the clinical trial development of our product candidates or their submission for regulatory approval could be delayed, and our ability to deliver products to market on a timely basis could be impaired or precluded. We may not be able to enter into any third-party manufacturing arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all. We do not intend to develop or acquire facilities to manufacture our product candidates for clinical trials or commercial purposes in the foreseeable future. In its ongoing collaboration with us, Merck is responsible for manufacturing or Page 18 Table of Contents obtaining clinical and commercial supplies of pharmaceutical compounds. In our unpartnered programs, we utilize third parties to prepare and formulate pharmaceutical compounds for use in clinical studies. Our current dependence upon others for the manufacture of our products may reduce our future profit margin and limit our ability to commercialize products on a timely and competitive basis. If we are unable to design, conduct and complete clinical trials successfully, we will not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates. In order to obtain FDA approval for any of our drug candidates, we must submit to the FDA an NDA that demonstrates with substantive evidence that the drug candidate is both safe and effective in humans for its intended use. This demonstration requires significant research and animal tests, which are referred to as preclinical studies, as well as human tests, which are referred to as clinical trials. Results from our Phase 2 clinical programs may not support moving a drug candidate to Phase 3 clinical trials. Any Phase 3 clinical trials may not demonstrate the safety or efficacy of our drug candidates. Success in preclinical studies and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. Results of later clinical trials may not replicate the results of prior clinical trials and preclinical studies. Even if the results of any Phase 3 clinical trials are positive, we may have to commit substantial time and additional resources to conducting further preclinical studies and clinical trials before we can obtain FDA approval for any of our drug candidates. Clinical trials are very expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous requirements. The clinical trial process also consumes a significant amount of time. Furthermore, if participating patients in clinical trials suffer drug-related adverse reactions during the course of such clinical trials, or if we or the FDA believe that participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks, we will have to suspend or terminate our clinical trials. Failure can occur at any stage of the clinical trials, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, their results may not support our expectations or intended marketing claims. The clinical trials process may fail to demonstrate that our drug candidates are safe and effective for indicated uses. Such failure would cause us to abandon a drug candidate and could delay development of other drug candidates. We have never received FDA approval of one of our drug candidates and so have never completed marketing and launch planning and lack sales experience. We currently have no sales or distribution experience with our own products. Currently, we intend to rely primarily on existing or future collaborative partners for this expertise if one of our products is successfully commercialized. Therefore, to service markets for any areas in which we have retained sales and marketing rights or in the event that any of our collaborative agreements is terminated, we must develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise. We have no experience in developing, training or managing a marketing and sales force and would incur substantial additional expenses in developing, training and managing such a force. We may be unable to build a marketing and sales force, the cost of establishing such a force may exceed any product revenues, or our direct marketing and sales efforts may be unsuccessful. If our collaborators fail to effectively market a commercialized product, or we fail to develop an effective sales force of our own, our sales and business operations may be adversely affected. INVESTMENT RISK The recent financial crisis could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The recent financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the going concern threats to financial institutions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and extreme volatility in credit, fixed income, and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on Page 19 Table of Contents effects from the credit crisis on our business, including; our inability to obtain equity financing to support our operations; the inability of prospective purchasers of our facilities to obtain debt financing necessary to support a sale of these facilities; or the potential in solvency of key suppliers. The price of our common stock may be volatile. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies, including ours, have historically been highly volatile. For example, from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008, the market price of our stock was as low as $0.06 per share and as high as $3.52 per share. The volatile price of our stock makes it difficult for investors to predict the value of their investment, to sell shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. Investors may not be able to sell their shares at a profit due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock arising from a decline in our operating performance or prospects. In addition, the stock markets in general, and the markets for biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, including: § announcements by us or our competitors of regulatory developments, preclinical testing and clinical trial results, clinical trial enrollment, regulatory filings, new products and product launches, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; § any intellectual property infringement, product liability or any other litigation involving us; § technological innovations or new therapeutic products; § developments or disputes concerning our patents or other proprietary rights; § regulatory changes or developments; § general market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; § comments by securities analysts; § economic or other crises and other external factors; § public concern as to the safety of products developed by us or others; § actual or anticipated period-to-period fluctuations in our results of operations; § our ability to raise capital; § departure of any of our key management personnel; or § sales of our common stock. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit investors’ ability to readily sell their shares and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity or value of our common stock. Our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market if our stock price continues to trade below $1.00 per share. On August 26, 2008, we received notification from The Nasdaq Stock Market indicating that for the preceding 30 business days our common stock had not met the $1.00 minimum closing bid price requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market, as specified by the Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5). In accordance with Marketplace Rule 4450(e)(2), we had 180 calendar days, or until February 23, 2009, to regain compliance with the Page 20 Table of Contents minimum closing bid price requirement. We have since received further notification from The NASDAQ Stock Market that, pursuant to the NASDAQ's recently announced suspension of their requirements for minimum bid price and market value of publicly held shares, our deadline to regain compliance with the NASDAQ's $1.00 minimum bid price requirement has been extended from February 23, 2009 to July 20, 2009. To regain compliance, the closing bid price of our common stock must meet or exceed $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. Neither the original notification nor the extension has an immediate effect on the listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market. Our common stock will continue to trade on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “NRGN”. If we do not regain compliance by July 20, 2009, NASDAQ will provide written notification to us that our common stock will be delisted. At that time, we may appeal NASDAQ's determination to delist our securities to a Listing Qualifications Panel. Alternatively, we could apply to transfer our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market to the NASDAQ Capital Market if we satisfy all requirements, other than the minimum closing bid price requirement, for initial inclusion in that market set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c). If we make such an election and our transfer application is approved, we will be eligible to regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement during a second 180 calendar day compliance period. We will seek to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement within the 180-day cure period and are considering alternatives to address compliance with the continued listing standards of the NASDAQ Global Market. Delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market could have an adverse effect on our business and on the trading of our common stock. If a delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Stock Market were to occur, our common stock would trade on the OTC Bulletin Board or on the “pink sheets” maintained by the National Quotation Bureau, Inc. Such alternatives are generally considered to be less efficient markets, and our stock price, as well as the liquidity of our common stock, may be adversely impacted as a result. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of its common stock, the market price of our common stock may fall. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, the market price of our common stock may fall. These sales may also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Future sales of additional shares of our common stock in the public market could lower the stock price. We have in the past and may in the future sell additional shares of our common stock in public offerings. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock to finance our research and development and commercialization activities. Additionally, a substantial number of shares of our common stock are available for future sale pursuant to stock options granted to certain of our officers and our employees and pursuant to registration rights granted to certain holders of our stock. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock, if any, or the effect, if any, that such future sales and issuances will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Our current stockholders have significant control of our management and affairs. Our executive officers and directors and holders of greater than five percent of our outstanding common stock, together with entities that may be deemed affiliates of, or related to, such persons or entities, beneficially owned greater than 60 percent of our common stock as of December 31, 2008. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, may be able to control our management and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations or the sale of substantially all of our assets. The interests of our current major stockholders may not always coincide with Page 21 Table of Contents the interests of other stockholders and they may take actions to advance their respective interests to the detriment of other stockholders. Because we do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock, investors in our common stock will not realize any income from their investment unless and until they sell their shares at a profit. We have never declared or paid dividends on our common stock in the past, and we do not expect to pay any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Investors will only realize income from an investment in our shares to the extent that they sell or otherwise dispose of their shares at a price higher than the price they paid for their shares. Such a gain would result only from an increase in the market price of our common stock, which is uncertain and unpredictable. We may be at risk of securities class action litigation. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of our securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years. If we were to face such litigation, we could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could harm our business. Delaware law and our charter and bylaws may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of shares to decline. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of the Company, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our board of directors has the power, without stockholders’ approval, to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock, which could be used defensively if a takeover is threatened. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws provide for restrictions on who may call a special meeting of stockholders. Our incorporation under Delaware law, the ability of our board of directors to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market value of our common stock. We may have a limitation on the Use of Net Operating Loss Carryforwards and Tax Credits. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, and tax credits may be limited if we undergo or have undergone an ownership change, as defined in section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, as a result of changes in the ownership of outstanding stock. An ownership change generally occurs if the percentage of stock owned by one or more stockholders who own, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the value of our outstanding stock (or are otherwise treated as 5% stockholders under section 382 and the regulations promulgated thereunder) has increased by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of our outstanding stock owned by these stockholders at any time during the testing period, which is generally the three-year period preceding the potential ownership change. In the event of an ownership change, section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of post-ownership change taxable income a corporation may offset with pre-ownership change NOLs. In early 2008, we updated our review of our changes in ownership through a testing date of December 31, 2007, and determined that we did not have an ownership change subsequent to 2005 through December 31, 2007. In 2006, we reviewed our changes in ownership through a testing date of December 31, 2005 and determined that an ownership change occurred in 2005. The change of ownership did not have the effect of reducing the amount of NOLs but has limited approximately $1.1 million tax credits existing at the date of the ownership change that we may utilize in the taxable years following the change. We are currently in the process of updating our analysis of ownership changes through December 31, 2008. Page 22 Table of Contents ITEM 