Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider and evaluate these risk factors, as any of them could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which, in turn, can adversely affect the price of our securities. Our investments are particularly subject to risk of loss. The Company’s portfolio investment in Buddy Media, Inc. is in a development stage company that has yet to provide a return to shareholders. The Company’s equity investment in Knight’s Bridge Capital Partners Internet Fund No. 1 GP LLC is in a company whose underlying investments are also primarily in development stage companies. Although the Company’s analyses of these investments as at December 31, 2008 resulted in the conclusion that no impairment was present, development stage companies are particularly vulnerable during an economic downturn such as the one currently in progress. There can be no assurance that the Company will either recover the value of its initial investments or earn a positive return. We are subject to litigation. We are, from time to time, involved in various claims, legal proceedings and complaints arising in the ordinary course of business. The significant litigation matters in which we are involved at this time are detailed in Item 3 of this Report. We may fail to either adequately protect our proprietary technology and processes, or enforce our intellectual property rights, which would allow competitors to take advantage of our development efforts. The Company’s VoIP Patent Portfolio consists of United States Patents No. 6,243,373 and No. 6,438,124. The ultimate value of these patents has yet to be determined. If we fail to obtain or maintain adequate protections, or are unsuccessful in enforcing our patent rights, we may not be able to either realize additional value from our patents, or prevent third parties from benefiting from those patents without benefit to the Company. Any currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents. In addition, any issued patents may not have priority over any patent applications of others or may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies, products or processes. The telecommunications market is volatile. During the last several years, the telecommunications industry has been very volatile as a result of overcapacity, which has led to price erosion and bankruptcies. These negative trends may become even more significant during the current economic downturn. Our potential licensees may experience increased customer attrition, may have difficulty generating and collecting revenue, or may even be forced into bankruptcy. Our potential revenue could therefore decrease significantly as the licensees become unable to meet their financial obligations. Our principal stockholder, Counsel, has voting control of the Company and our executive officers are employees of Counsel. Counsel owns approximately 91% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Counsel controls all matters requiring approval by the stockholders, including the election of the Board of Directors and significant corporate transactions. Our Board of Directors has five members, four of whom are not employees or otherwise affiliated with Counsel. The Board establishes corporate policies and has the sole authority to nominate and elect officers to carry out those policies. Our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Accounting and Corporate Secretary are all employees of Counsel. Counsel’s control over C2 could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us, or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation, as amended, could prevent or delay stockholders' attempts to replace or remove current management. Our Articles of Incorporation, as amended, provide for staggered terms for the members of our Board. The Board is divided into three staggered classes, and each director serves a term of three years. At each annual stockholders’ meeting only those directors comprising one of the three classes will have completed their term and stand for re-election or replacement. These provisions may be beneficial to our management and the Board in a hostile tender offer, and may have an adverse impact on stockholders who may want to participate in such a tender offer, or who may want to replace some or all of the members of the Board. Our Board of Directors may issue additional shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Our Articles of Incorporation, as amended, authorize the issuance of up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, $10.00 par value per share. The Board is authorized to determine the rights and preferences of any additional series or class of preferred stock. The Board may, without stockholder approval, issue shares of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which are senior to our shares of common stock or which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the existing holders of outstanding shares of preferred stock or common stock. The issuance of additional shares of preferred stock may also hamper or discourage an acquisition or change in control of C2. 9 We may conduct future offerings of our common stock and preferred stock and pay debt obligations with our common and preferred stock that may diminish our investors’ pro rata ownership and depress our stock price. We reserve the right to make future offers and sales, either public or private, of our securities including shares of our preferred stock, common stock or securities convertible into common stock at prices differing from the price of the common stock previously issued. In the event that any such future sales of securities are effected or we use our common or preferred stock to pay principal or interest on our debt obligations, an investor’s pro rata ownership interest may be reduced to the extent of any such issuances and, to the extent that any such sales are effected at consideration which is less than that paid by the investor, the investor may experience dilution and a diminution in the market price of the common stock. As of the date of this Report, a third party holds a Warrant to acquire 1,000,000 shares of common stock. There is a limited public trading market for our common stock; the market price of our common stock has been volatile and could experience substantial fluctuations. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and has a limited public trading market. Without an active trading market, there can be no assurance regarding the liquidity or resale value of the common stock. In addition, the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. Such price fluctuations may be affected by general market price movements or by reasons unrelated to our operating performance or prospects such as, among other things, announcements concerning us or our competitors, technological innovations, government regulations, and litigation concerning proprietary rights or other matters. We may not be able to utilize income tax loss carryforwards. Restrictions in our ability to utilize income tax loss carry forwards have occurred in the past due to the application of certain changes in ownership tax rules in the United States. There is no certainty that the application of these rules may not recur. In addition, further restrictions of, reductions in, or expiry of net operating loss and net capital loss carry forwards may occur through future merger, acquisition and/or disposition transactions or failure to continue a significant level of business activities. Any such additional limitations could require us to pay income taxes in the future and record an income tax expense to the extent of such liability. We could be liable for income taxes on an overall basis while having unutilized tax loss carry forwards since these losses may be applicable to one jurisdiction and/or particular line of business while earnings may be applicable to a different jurisdiction and/or line of business. Additionally, income tax loss carry forwards may expire before we have the ability to utilize such losses in a particular jurisdiction and there is no certainty that current income tax rates will remain in effect at the time when we have the opportunity to utilize reported tax loss carry forwards. We have not declared any dividends on our common stock to date and have no expectation of doing so in the foreseeable future. The payment of cash dividends on our common stock rests within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend, among other things, upon our earnings, unencumbered cash, capital requirements and our financial condition, as well as other relevant factors. To date, we have not paid dividends on our common stock nor do we anticipate that we will pay dividends in the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2008, we do not have any preferred stock outstanding that has any preferential dividends. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 