Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider and evaluate these risk factors, as any of them could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which, in turn, can adversely affect the price of our securities. Reports of our independent registered accountants have been qualified and make reference to the going concern risk. In each of their audit reports for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, our independent registered public accounting firm has made reference to the substantial doubt of our ability to continue as a going concern. Before considering making an investment or becoming a stakeholder in C2, you should carefully review the aforementioned accountants’ reports and ensure that you have read, understood and obtained relevant advice from consultation with your financial and other advisors. We are primarily dependent upon an ongoing commitment from Counsel to fund, through long-term intercompany advances or equity contributions, all of our capital investment, working capital or other operational cash requirements through December 31, 2006. Counsel is the 91% equity holder and 95% debt holder of the Company at December 31, 2005. Counsel has committed to fund the operating cash requirements of the Company through December 31, 2006. C2 may be unable to meet its obligations as they come due should Counsel be unable or unwilling to meet its commitment to provide financial support as necessary through December 31, 2006. See the section entitled “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in Item 13 of this report. We have no commitments in place to fund operations beyond December 31, 2006 Management’s forecasts do not anticipate the Company achieving breakeven cash flows by December 31, 2006. Accordingly, the Company will need to obtain third party financing in order to continue operations beyond this date. As of the date of this report, management has not attempted to arrange additional financing beyond the maturity of the Counsel Keep Well, which expires on December 31, 2006, and there is no assurance that management will be able to obtain financing on favorable financial terms to fund the operations of the Company beyond this date. Management, with the assistance of legal counsel, is looking to realize on the value of its intellectual property in the form of licensing or royalty payments from third parties. There is no certainty that the Company’s strategy will be successful. We may need to settle our convertible notes in cash. Conversion of existing convertible notes is primarily at the option of the holders. Should the holders decide not to convert or should other conditions not be met regarding stock price, the Company may be required to deliver cash to settle amounts due in respect of interest, and/or principal at various times in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash from operations or from third party financing in order to be able to do so. Our assets serve as collateral under both a convertible note and loans from related parties. If we were to default on any of these loans, the secured lenders could foreclose on our assets. In that event, we would be unable to continue our operations as they are presently conducted, if at all. Laurus Master Fund, Ltd. (“Laurus”) holds a $3,235 secured convertible note (the “Note”) which is collateralized by a blanket security interest in our assets. The Note matures in October 2007. At December 31, 2005, our assets also secure all debt to Counsel. All Counsel debt is subordinated in favor of the Note. Our aggregate total debt to Counsel at December 31, 2005 of $73,646 may need to be restructured in the event that the Company is unable to satisfy these obligations in cash. We are subject to litigation. We are, from time to time, involved in various claims, legal proceedings and complaints arising in the ordinary course of business. The significant litigation matters facing us at this time are detailed below, in Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may be required to make cash payments to dissenting stockholders. At our Adjourned Meeting of Stockholders held on December 30, 2003, our stockholders, among other things, approved an amendment to our Articles of Incorporation, deleting Article VI thereof (regarding liquidations, reorganizations, mergers and the like). Stockholders who were entitled to vote at the meeting and advised us in writing, prior to the vote on the amendment, that they dissented and intended to demand payment for their shares if the amendment was effectuated, were entitled to exercise their appraisal rights and obtain payment in cash for their shares under Sections 607.1301 - 607.1333 of the Florida Business Corporation Act (the “Florida Act”), provided their shares were not voted in favor of the amendment. In January 2004, we sent appraisal notices in compliance with Florida corporate statutes to all stockholders who had advised us of their intention to exercise their appraisal rights. The appraisal notices included our estimate of fair value of our shares, at $4.00 per share on a post-split basis. These stockholders had until February 29, 2004 to return their completed appraisal notices along with certificates for the shares for which they were exercising their appraisal rights. Approximately 33 stockholders holding approximately 74,000 shares of our stock returned completed appraisal notices by February 29, 2004. A stockholder of 20 shares notified us of his acceptance of our offer of $4.00 per share, while the stockholders of the remaining shares did not accept our offer. Subject to the qualification that, in accordance with the Florida Act, we may not make any payment to a stockholder seeking appraisal rights if, at the time of payment, our total assets are less than our total liabilities, stockholders who accepted our offer to purchase their shares at the estimated fair value will be paid for their shares within 90 days of our receipt of a duly executed appraisal notice. If we should be required to make any payments to dissenting stockholders, Counsel will fund any such amounts through advances to C2. Stockholders who did not accept our offer were required to indicate their own estimate of fair value, and if we do not agree with such estimates, the parties are required to go to court for an appraisal proceeding on an individual basis, in order to establish fair value. Because we did not agree with the estimates submitted by most of the dissenting stockholders, we have sought a judicial determination of the fair value of the common stock held by the dissenting stockholders. On June 24, 2004, we filed suit against the dissenting stockholders seeking a declaratory judgment, appraisal and other relief in the Circuit Court for the 17th Judicial District in Broward County, Florida. On February 4, 2005, the declaratory judgment action was stayed pending the resolution of the direct and derivative lawsuits filed in California. This decision was made by the judge in the Florida declaratory judgment action due to the similar nature of certain allegations brought by the defendants in the declaratory judgment matter and the California lawsuits. On March 7, 2005, the dissenting shareholders appealed the decision of the District Court judge to the Fourth District Court of Appeals for the State of Florida, which denied the appeal on June 21, 2005. When the declaratory judgment matter resumes, there is no assurance that this matter will be resolved in our favor and an unfavorable outcome of this matter could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. 10 We may fail either to adequately protect our proprietary technology and processes, or to succeed in enforcing our intellectual property rights, which would allow competitors to take advantage of our development efforts. Included in the Company’s VoIP Patent Portfolio are United States Patents No. 6,243,373 and No. 6,438,124. The value of these patents has yet to be determined. If we fail to obtain or maintain adequate protections, or are unsuccessful in enforcing our patent rights, we may not be able to carry out our business strategy or prevent third parties from benefiting from those patents without benefit to the Company. Any currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents. In addition, any issued patents may not have priority over any patent applications of others or may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies, products or processes. Our principal stockholder, Counsel, has voting control over us and certain of our executive officers are employees of Counsel. Counsel owns approximately 91% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Counsel controls all matters requiring approval by the stockholders including the election of the Board of Directors and significant corporate transactions. Our Board of Directors establishes corporate policies and has the sole authority to nominate and elect our officers to carry out those policies. Our Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Accounting and Corporate Secretary are all employees of Counsel. Our Chief Executive Officer has a supplemental employment contract with C2. Services of Counsel staff working at C2 (excluding the CEO) are paid for pursuant to a management services agreement that exists between Counsel and C2. The control by Counsel could delay or prevent a change in control of C2, impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us and discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of C2. Other stockholders therefore will have limited participation in our affairs. The four member Board of Directors has three members independent of Counsel. The Board established a special committee of independent directors of the Board in 2004 to consider recommendations of the Company’s management for potential merger, acquisitions and financing activities. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation, as amended, could prevent or delay stockholders' attempts to replace or remove current management. Our Articles of Incorporation, as amended, provide for staggered terms for the members of our Board of Directors. The Board of Directors is divided into three staggered classes, and each director serves a term of three years. At each annual stockholders’ meeting only those directors comprising one of the three classes will have completed their term and stand for re-election or replacement. The use of a staggered Board of Directors and the ability to issue "blank check" preferred stock are traditional anti-takeover measures. These provisions may be beneficial to our management and the Board of Directors in a hostile tender offer, and may have an adverse impact on stockholders who may want to participate in such a tender offer, or who may want to replace some or all of the members of the Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors may issue additional shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Our Articles of Incorporation, as amended, authorize the issuance of up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, $10.00 par value per share. The Board of Directors is authorized to determine the rights and preferences of any additional series or class of preferred stock. The Board of Directors may, without stockholder approval, issue shares of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which are senior to our shares of common stock or which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the existing holders of outstanding shares of preferred stock or common stock. The issuance of additional shares of preferred stock may also hamper or discourage an acquisition or change in control of C2. 11 We may conduct future offerings of our common stock and preferred stock and pay debt obligations with our common and preferred stock which may diminish our investors’ pro rata ownership and depress our stock price. We reserve the right to make future offers and sales, either public or private, of our securities including shares of our preferred stock, common stock or securities convertible into common stock at prices differing from the price of the common stock previously issued. We have $18,270 of convertible debt owing to Counsel as of December 31, 2005, convertible into over 3,600,000 shares of our common stock (subject to the effects of anti-dilution, including the effect of the potential conversion of the Laurus Note). We also have $55,375 of non-convertible debt owed to Counsel at December 31, 2005 which may need to be restructured into convertible debt or converted into equity in the event that the Company is unable to satisfy these obligations in cash. In addition, the Laurus Note is convertible into approximately 3,676,000 shares of common stock. Laurus also holds a Warrant to acquire 1,000,000 shares of common stock of the Company. The Laurus Note is guaranteed by Counsel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete any such future offerings. In the event that any such future sales of securities are effected or we use our common or preferred stock to pay principal or interest on our debt obligations, an investor’s pro rata ownership interest in us may be reduced to the extent of any such issuances and, to the extent that any such sales are effected at consideration which is less than that paid by the investor, the investor may experience dilution and a diminution in the market price of the common stock. Our internal disclosure controls may not reduce to a relatively low level the risk that a material error in our financial statements may go undetected. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (the “Certifying Officers”) are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for C2. Accordingly, the Certifying Officers designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under their supervision, to ensure that material information relating to C2, including our consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to the Certifying Officers by others within those entities. We regularly evaluate the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls quarterly on our Form 10-Q and annually on our Form 10-K. In completing such reporting we disclose, as appropriate, any significant change in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during our most recent fiscal period that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. This disclosure, based on our most recent evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures, is made to our independent accountants and the audit committee of our Board of Directors. All material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information on a timely basis are reported in our public filings. Additionally, any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in our internal control over financial reporting, is reported on such filings as applicable. Over the last three years, the Certifying Officers have reported three separate events of control deficiencies, constituting material weaknesses. Control deficiencies were last reported in the second quarter of 2004. Since that time, the Certifying Officers have reported that the disclosure controls and procedures are effective. We have undertaken specific measures to cure or mitigate the ineffective controls and procedures identified in our prior filings. Such measures include making significant systems, process and control changes and we have implemented new technologies to achieve an effective system of controls and procedures as of the quarter ended September 30, 2004 and through the date of this Report on Form 10-K. The three control deficiencies are detailed in the following filings: · Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003, as amended; · Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, as amended; and · Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004. While management is responsible for ensuring an effective control environment and has taken steps to ensure that the internal control environment remains free of significant deficiencies and/or material weaknesses, the inherent nature of our business and rapidly changing environment may affect management’s ability to be successful with this initiative. The telecommunications industry in which we operate is subject to government regulation. As a result of, and subsequent to, the disposition of the telecommunications business, we are no longer subject to various regulatory requirements. However, we remain subject to certain government regulation at federal, state and local levels. Any change in current government regulation regarding telecommunications pricing, system access, consumer protection or other relevant legislation could have a material impact on our results of operations. Most of the operations of our target market are subject to regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. In addition, certain of our target market’s operations are subject to regulation by state public utility or public service commissions. Changes in the regulation of, or the enactment of changes in interpretation of, legislation affecting us could negatively impact the operations of our target market and therefore negatively affect our opportunities to license our intellectual property. 12 The telecommunications market is volatile. During the last several years, the telecommunications industry has been very volatile as a result of overcapacity, which has led to price erosion and bankruptcies. If our potential licensees cannot control their subscriber and customer attrition through maintaining competitive services and pricing, our revenue could decrease significantly as the licensees become unable to meet their financial obligations. There is a limited public trading market for our common stock; the market price of our common stock has been volatile and could experience substantial fluctuations. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and there is a limited public trading market for the common stock. Without an active trading market, there can be no assurance of any liquidity or resale value of the common stock. In addition, the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. Such price fluctuations may be affected by general market price movements or by reasons unrelated to our operating performance or prospects such as, among other things, announcements concerning us or our competitors, technological innovations, government regulations, and litigation concerning proprietary rights or other matters. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general, and the market for telecommunications companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies and it may adversely affect the price of our common stock. We may not be able to utilize income tax loss carryforwards. Restrictions in our ability to utilize income tax loss carry forwards have occurred in the past due to the application of certain changes in ownership tax rules in the United States. There is no certainty that the application of these rules may not reoccur or that future merger, acquisition and/or disposition transactions may cause further restrictions on our income tax loss carryforwards existing at a particular time. Any such additional limitations could require us to pay income taxes in the future and record an income tax expense to the extent of such liability. We could be liable for income taxes on an overall basis while having unutilized tax loss carryforwards since these losses may be applicable to one jurisdiction and/or particular line of business while earnings may be applicable to a different jurisdiction and/or line of business. Additionally, income tax loss carryforwards may expire before we have the ability to utilize such losses in a particular jurisdiction and there is no certainty that current income tax rates will remain in effect at the time when we have the opportunity to utilize reported tax loss carry forwards. We have not declared any dividends on our common stock to date and have no intention of doing so in the foreseeable future. The payment of cash dividends on our common stock rests within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend, among other things, upon our earnings, unencumbered cash, capital requirements and our financial condition, as well as other relevant factors. Payments of dividends on our outstanding shares of preferred stock must be paid prior to the payment of dividends on our common stock. To date, we have not paid dividends on our common stock nor do we anticipate that we will pay dividends in the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2005, we do not have any preferred stock outstanding which has any preferential dividends. So long as 25% of principal amount of the Note held by Laurus remains outstanding, we may not pay any dividends on our common stock. Additionally, under the Florida Act, we cannot pay dividends while we have negative stockholders’ equity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 