Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider and evaluate these risk factors, as any of them could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which, in turn, can adversely affect the price of our securities. We are subject to the risks of having entered into a new line of business. In the first quarter of 2009 the Company established its 75%-owned subsidiary, Counsel RB, which commenced operations in the second quarter of 2009. As discussed elsewhere in this Report, Counsel RB specializes in the acquisition and disposition of distressed and surplus assets throughout the United States and Canada. The Company has therefore acquired exposure to the risks inherent in this business, such as those associated with the collectability of accounts receivable, inventory valuation and turnover. We face significant competition in our asset liquidation business. Our asset liquidation business depends on our ability to successfully obtain a continuous supply of distressed and surplus assets for profitable resale to third parties. In this regard, we compete with numerous other organizations, of which some are much larger and better-capitalized, with greater resources available for both asset acquisition and associated marketing to potential customers. As competition in this business increases, we may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Our asset liquidation business is subject to inventory risk and credit risk. Under our business model, we assume the general and physical inventory and credit risks associated with purchasing assets for subsequent resale. Although we do enter into transactions for which a subsequent purchaser has already been identified, in most cases we purchase assets and assume the risk that they may sell for less than our forecasted price. As well, we may miscalculate demand or resale value, and subsequently sell the assets for less than their original purchase price. Either situation could have a material adverse effect upon our use of working capital and our results of operations. Our asset liquidation business is subject to environmental risk. Our asset liquidation at times includes the purchase and resale of buildings and land. Although our purchase process includes due diligence to determine that there are no adverse environmental issues, it is possible that such issues could be discovered subsequent to a completed purchase. Any remediation and related costs could have a material adverse effect upon our business and results of operations. We are dependent upon key personnel. Our operations, particularly those of Counsel RB, are substantially dependent on the knowledge, skills and performance of our executive officers. The loss of any one of these officers could damage key relationships, and result in the loss of essential information and expertise. As our operations expand we will be required to hire additional employees, and may face intense competition for them. Therefore, either the loss of the services of our existing officers, or the inability to attract and retain appropriately skilled new employees, could have a material adverse effect upon our business and therefore our results of operations. We may require additional financing in the future, which may not be available, or may not be available on favourable terms. We may need additional funds to finance our operations, particularly our asset liquidation business, to make additional investments, or to acquire complementary businesses or assets. We may be unable to generate these funds from our operations. Additionally, in connection with Counsel RB’s operations, the Company, together with Counsel, has guaranteed Counsel RB’s variable and fixed rate debt. If funds are not available, or not available on acceptable terms, we could experience a material adverse effect upon our business. Our investments are particularly subject to risk of loss. The Company’s portfolio investment in Buddy Media, Inc. is in a development stage company that has yet to provide a return to shareholders. The Company’s equity investment in Knight’s Bridge Capital Partners Internet Fund No. 1 GP LLC is in a company whose underlying investments are also primarily in development stage companies. Although the Company’s analyses of these investments as at December 31, 2009 resulted in the conclusion that no impairment was present, development stage companies are particularly vulnerable during an economic downturn such as the one currently in progress. There can be no assurance that the Company will either recover the value of its initial investments or earn a positive return. We have significantly increased our investment in non-publicly traded equity. The investment that the Company has made in Polaroid during 2009 represents approximately 23% of its total assets at December 31, 2009. The investment is in a private company and therefore not easily liquidated. Although the Company’s analysis of this investment opportunity concluded that it will ultimately have a positive return, and although cash distributions were received during 2009, there can be no assurance that the Company will either recover the entire value of its initial investment or earn a positive return to the extent that it expects. 9 We are subject to litigation. We are, from time to time, involved in various claims, legal proceedings and complaints arising in the ordinary course of business. The significant litigation matters in which we are involved at this time are detailed in Item 3 of this Report. We may fail to either adequately protect our proprietary technology and processes, or enforce our intellectual property rights, which would allow competitors to take advantage of our development efforts. The Company’s VoIP Patent Portfolio consists of United States Patents No. 6,243,373 and No. 6,438,124. The ultimate value of these patents has yet to be determined. If we fail to obtain or maintain adequate protections, or are unsuccessful in enforcing our patent rights, we may not be able to either realize additional value from our patents, or prevent third parties from benefiting from those patents without benefit to the Company. Any currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents. In addition, any issued patents may not have priority over any patent applications of others or may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies, products or processes. In February 2010, at the request of certain third parties, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office agreed to re-examine the validity of U.S. Patent No. 6,243,373; this re-examination is currently in progress and its outcome cannot be determined at this time. In addition, the Company’s existing patents have finite lives (although they may be extended by filing continuations and/or divisional applications), most of which expire in approximately seven years. There is no guarantee that they will be fully exploited or commercialized before expiry. The telecommunications market is volatile. During the last several years, the telecommunications industry has been very volatile as a result of overcapacity, which has led to price erosion and bankruptcies. These negative trends may become even more significant during the current economic downturn. Our potential licensees may experience increased customer attrition, may have difficulty generating and collecting revenue, or may even be forced into bankruptcy. Our potential revenue could therefore decrease significantly as the licensees become unable to meet their financial obligations. If we were to default on our related party loan, Counsel could foreclose on our assets. At December 31, 2009, Counsel owned approximately 91% of the Company’s common stock. Our assets serve as collateral for our related party debt. In the event that we were to default on this debt, and Counsel foreclosed on our assets, we would be unable to continue our operations as they are presently conducted, if at all. Our aggregate total debt to Counsel at December 31, 2009 was $1,564. See Note 7 and Note 11 of the consolidated financial statements included in Item 15 of this Report for further discussion of the debt to Counsel. Our principal stockholder, Counsel, has voting control of the Company and our executive officers are employees of Counsel. Counsel owns approximately 91% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Counsel controls all matters requiring approval by the stockholders, including the election of the Board of Directors and significant corporate transactions. Our Board of Directors has five members, four of whom are not employees or otherwise affiliated with Counsel. The Board establishes corporate policies and has the sole authority to nominate and elect officers to carry out those policies. Our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Accounting and Corporate Secretary are all employees of Counsel. Counsel’s control over C2 could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination, or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation, as amended, could prevent or delay stockholders' attempts to replace or remove current management. Our Articles of Incorporation, as amended, provide for staggered terms for the members of our Board. The Board is divided into three staggered classes, and each director serves a term of three years. At each annual stockholders’ meeting only those directors comprising one of the three classes will have completed their term and stand for re-election or replacement. These provisions may be beneficial to our management and the Board in a hostile tender offer, and may have an adverse impact on stockholders who may want to participate in such a tender offer, or who may want to replace some or all of the members of the Board. We are restating our unaudited consolidated financial statements for the quarters ended June 30 and September 30, 2009. In March 2010 management concluded that the previously issued unaudited consolidated financial statements as of and for the quarters ended June 30, 2009 and September 30, 2009 required restatement to correct errors in (i) the recognition of patent licensing revenue in the three months ended June 30, 2009, and (ii) the proportionate consolidation of the Company's interests in certain non-controlled entities. These errors, and the restated financial information as of and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009, are discussed in Items 7 and 9A(T) and in Note 17 of the audited consolidated financial statements included in this Report. Any regulatory proceeding or litigation that might result from the foregoing restatement, if and when it occurs, and even if ultimately resolved in our favor, could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses, including management time and resources. 10 Our Board of Directors may issue additional shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Our Articles of Incorporation, as amended, authorize the issuance of up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, $10.00 par value per share. The Board is authorized to determine the rights and preferences of any additional series or class of preferred stock. The Board may, without stockholder approval, issue shares of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which are senior to our shares of common stock or which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the existing holders of outstanding shares of preferred stock or common stock. The issuance of additional shares of preferred stock may also hamper or discourage an acquisition or change in control of C2. We may conduct future offerings of our common stock and preferred stock and pay debt obligations with our common and preferred stock that may diminish our investors’ pro rata ownership and depress our stock price. We reserve the right to make future offers and sales, either public or private, of our securities including shares of our preferred stock, common stock or securities convertible into common stock at prices differing from the price of the common stock previously issued. In the event that any such future sales of securities are effected or we use our common or preferred stock to pay principal or interest on our debt obligations, an investor’s pro rata ownership interest may be reduced to the extent of any such issuances and, to the extent that any such sales are effected at consideration which is less than that paid by the investor, the investor may experience dilution and a diminution in the market price of the common stock. There is a limited public trading market for our common stock; the market price of our common stock has been volatile and could experience substantial fluctuations. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and has a limited public trading market. Without an active trading market, there can be no assurance regarding the liquidity or resale value of the common stock. In addition, the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. Such price fluctuations may be affected by general market price movements or by reasons unrelated to our operating performance or prospects such as, among other things, announcements concerning us or our competitors, technological innovations, government regulations, and litigation concerning proprietary rights or other matters. We may not be able to utilize income tax loss carryforwards. Restrictions in our ability to utilize income tax loss carry forwards have occurred in the past due to the application of certain changes in ownership tax rules in the United States. There is no certainty that the application of these rules may not recur. In addition, further restrictions of, reductions in, or expiry of net operating loss and net capital loss carry forwards may occur through future merger, acquisition and/or disposition transactions or failure to continue a significant level of business activities. Any such additional limitations could require us to pay income taxes in the future and record an income tax expense to the extent of such liability. We could be liable for income taxes on an overall basis while having unutilized tax loss carry forwards since these losses may be applicable to one jurisdiction and/or particular line of business while earnings may be applicable to a different jurisdiction and/or line of business. Additionally, income tax loss carry forwards may expire before we have the ability to utilize such losses in a particular jurisdiction and there is no certainty that current income tax rates will remain in effect at the time when we have the opportunity to utilize reported tax loss carry forwards. We have not declared any dividends on our common stock to date and have no expectation of doing so in the foreseeable future. The payment of cash dividends on our common stock rests within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend, among other things, upon our earnings, unencumbered cash, capital requirements and our financial condition, as well as other relevant factors. To date, we have not paid dividends on our common stock nor do we anticipate that we will pay dividends in the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2009, we do not have any preferred stock outstanding that has any preferential dividends. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 