Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider and evaluate these risk factors, as any of them could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which, in turn, can adversely affect the price of our securities. Reports of our independent registered accountants have made reference to the going concern risk. In each of their audit reports for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, our independent registered public accounting firm has made reference to the uncertainty regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Before considering making an investment or becoming a stakeholder in C2, you should carefully review the aforementioned accountants’ reports and ensure that you have read and understood them, and have obtained relevant advice from your financial and other advisors. If we were to default on any of our related party loans, Counsel could foreclose on our assets. At December 31, 2007 Counsel owned 92.51% of the equity of the Company. Counsel had previously committed, by means of a Keep Well agreement (the “Keep Well”) that expired on December 31, 2006, to fund the operating cash requirements of the Company. Although Counsel funded our minimal cash requirements during 2007, and has indicated that it will continue to do so until at least December 31, 2008, which is the maturity date of the outstanding loan payable to Counsel, it has not formally committed to long-term funding of our operations. Our assets serve as collateral for our related party debt. In the event that we were to default on this debt, and Counsel foreclosed on our assets, we would be unable to continue our operations as they are presently conducted, if at all. Our aggregate total debt to Counsel at December 31, 2007 was $2,335. See the section entitled “Transactions with Counsel” in Item 13 of this Report. Certain of our recently-acquired portfolio investments are particularly subject to risk of loss. The preferred share investment that the Company made in Buddy Media during the third quarter of 2007 is in a development stage company that has yet to provide a return to shareholders. There can be no assurance that the Company will either recover the value of its initial investment or earn a positive return. We are subject to litigation. We are, from time to time, involved in various claims, legal proceedings and complaints arising in the ordinary course of business. The significant litigation matters in which we are involved at this time are detailed in Item 3 of this Report. We may be required to make cash payments to dissenting stockholders. At our Adjourned Meeting of Stockholders held on December 30, 2003, our stockholders, among other things, approved an amendment to our Articles of Incorporation, deleting Article VI thereof (regarding liquidations, reorganizations, mergers and the like). Stockholders who were entitled to vote at the meeting and advised us in writing, prior to the vote on the amendment, that they dissented and intended to demand payment for their shares if the amendment was effectuated, were entitled to exercise their appraisal rights and obtain payment in cash for their shares under Sections 607.1301 - 607.1333 of the Florida Business Corporation Act (the “Florida Act”), provided their shares were not voted in favor of the amendment. In January 2004, we sent appraisal notices in compliance with Florida corporate statutes to all stockholders who had advised us of their intention to exercise their appraisal rights. The appraisal notices included our estimate of fair value of our shares, at $4.00 per share on a post-split basis. These stockholders had until February 29, 2004 to return their completed appraisal notices along with certificates for the shares for which they were exercising their appraisal rights. Approximately 33 stockholders holding approximately 74,000 shares of our stock returned completed appraisal notices by February 29, 2004. A stockholder of 20 shares notified us of his acceptance of our offer of $4.00 per share, while the stockholders of the remaining shares did not accept our offer. Subject to the qualification that, in accordance with the Florida Act, we may not make any payment to a stockholder seeking appraisal rights if, at the time of payment, our total assets are less than our total liabilities, stockholders who accepted our offer to purchase their shares at the estimated fair value will be paid for their shares within 90 days of our receipt of a duly executed appraisal notice. If we should be required to make any payments to dissenting stockholders, Counsel will fund any such amounts through advances to C2. Stockholders who did not accept our offer were required to indicate their own estimate of fair value, and if we do not agree with such estimates, the parties are required to go to court for an appraisal proceeding on an individual basis, in order to establish fair value. Because we did not agree with the estimates submitted by most of the dissenting stockholders, we have sought a judicial determination of the fair value of the common stock held by the dissenting stockholders. On June 24, 2004, we filed suit against the dissenting stockholders seeking a declaratory judgment, appraisal and other relief in the Circuit Court for the 17th Judicial District in Broward County, Florida. On February 4, 2005, the declaratory judgment action was stayed pending the resolution of the direct and derivative lawsuits filed in California. This decision was made by the judge in the Florida declaratory judgment action due to the similar nature of certain allegations brought by the defendants in the declaratory judgment matter and the California lawsuits. On March 7, 2005, the dissenting shareholders appealed the decision of the District Court judge to the Fourth District Court of Appeals for the State of Florida, which denied the appeal on June 21, 2005. When the declaratory judgment matter resumes, there is no assurance that this matter will be resolved in our favor and an unfavorable outcome of this matter could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position or liquidity. 9 We may fail to either adequately protect our proprietary technology and processes, or enforce our intellectual property rights, which would allow competitors to take advantage of our development efforts. The Company’s VoIP Patent Portfolio consists of United States Patents No. 6,243,373 and No. 6,438,124. The ultimate value of these patents has yet to be determined. If we fail to obtain or maintain adequate protections, or are unsuccessful in enforcing our patent rights, we may not be able to either realize value from our patents, or prevent third parties from benefiting from those patents without benefit to the Company. Any currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents. In addition, any issued patents may not have priority over any patent applications of others or may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies, products or processes. Our principal stockholder, Counsel, has voting control over us and our executive officers are employees of Counsel. Counsel owns approximately 93% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Counsel controls all matters requiring approval by the stockholders, including the election of the Board of Directors and significant corporate transactions. Our Board of Directors has five members, four of whom are independent of Counsel. The Board establishes corporate policies and has the sole authority to nominate and elect officers to carry out those policies. Our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Accounting and Corporate Secretary are all employees of Counsel. Counsel’s control over C2 could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us, or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation, as amended, could prevent or delay stockholders' attempts to replace or remove current management. Our Articles of Incorporation, as amended, provide for staggered terms for the members of our Board of Directors. The Board of Directors is divided into three staggered classes, and each director serves a term of three years. At each annual stockholders’ meeting only those directors comprising one of the three classes will have completed their term and stand for re-election or replacement. These provisions may be beneficial to our management and the Board of Directors in a hostile tender offer, and may have an adverse impact on stockholders who may want to participate in such a tender offer, or who may want to replace some or all of the members of the Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors may issue additional shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Our Articles of Incorporation, as amended, authorize the issuance of up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, $10.00 par value per share. The Board of Directors is authorized to determine the rights and preferences of any additional series or class of preferred stock. The Board of Directors may, without stockholder approval, issue shares of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which are senior to our shares of common stock or which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the existing holders of outstanding shares of preferred stock or common stock. The issuance of additional shares of preferred stock may also hamper or discourage an acquisition or change in control of C2. We may conduct future offerings of our common stock and preferred stock and pay debt obligations with our common and preferred stock that may diminish our investors’ pro rata ownership and depress our stock price. We reserve the right to make future offers and sales, either public or private, of our securities including shares of our preferred stock, common stock or securities convertible into common stock at prices differing from the price of the common stock previously issued. In the event that any such future sales of securities are effected or we use our common or preferred stock to pay principal or interest on our debt obligations, an investor’s pro rata ownership interest may be reduced to the extent of any such issuances and, to the extent that any such sales are effected at consideration which is less than that paid by the investor, the investor may experience dilution and a diminution in the market price of the common stock. As of the date of this Report, a third party holds a Warrant to acquire 1,000,000 shares of common stock. The telecommunications market is volatile. During the last several years, the telecommunications industry has been very volatile as a result of overcapacity, which has led to price erosion and bankruptcies. If our potential licensees cannot control their subscriber and customer attrition, our potential revenue could decrease significantly as the licensees become unable to meet their financial obligations. There is a limited public trading market for our common stock; the market price of our common stock has been volatile and could experience substantial fluctuations. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and has a limited public trading market. Without an active trading market, there can be no assurance regarding the liquidity or resale value of the common stock. In addition, the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. Such price fluctuations may be affected by general market price movements or by reasons unrelated to our operating performance or prospects such as, among other things, announcements concerning us or our competitors, technological innovations, government regulations, and litigation concerning proprietary rights or other matters. 10 We may not be able to utilize income tax loss carryforwards. Restrictions in our ability to utilize income tax loss carry forwards have occurred in the past due to the application of certain changes in ownership tax rules in the United States. There is no certainty that the application of these rules may not recur. In addition, further restrictions of, reductions in, or expiry of net operating loss and net capital loss carry forwards may occur through future merger, acquisition and/or disposition transactions or failure to continue a significant level of business activities. Any such additional limitations could require us to pay income taxes in the future and record an income tax expense to the extent of such liability. We could be liable for income taxes on an overall basis while having unutilized tax loss carry forwards since these losses may be applicable to one jurisdiction and/or particular line of business while earnings may be applicable to a different jurisdiction and/or line of business. Additionally, income tax loss carry forwards may expire before we have the ability to utilize such losses in a particular jurisdiction and there is no certainty that current income tax rates will remain in effect at the time when we have the opportunity to utilize reported tax loss carry forwards. We have not declared any dividends on our common stock to date and have no expectation of doing so in the foreseeable future. The payment of cash dividends on our common stock rests within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend, among other things, upon our earnings, unencumbered cash, capital requirements and our financial condition, as well as other relevant factors. To date, we have not paid dividends on our common stock nor do we anticipate that we will pay dividends in the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2007, we do not have any preferred stock outstanding that has any preferential dividends. Additionally, under the Florida Act, we cannot pay dividends while we have negative stockholders’ equity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 