ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSBusiness and Operating RisksThe Cyclical Nature of Our Business Could Adversely Affect Our Results of OperationsOur results of operations are affected by the cyclical nature of the economy, the forest products industry and real estate markets. Historical prices for logs, land and manufactured wood products have been volatile, and we have limited direct influence over the time and extent of price changes. The demand for logs and wood products is affected primarily by the level of new residential construction activity and, to a lesser extent, repair and remodeling activity and other industrial uses. The demand for logs is also affected by the demand for wood chips in the pulp and paper and engineered wood products markets and the bio-energy production markets. These activities are, in turn, subject to fluctuations due to, among other factors:•changes in domestic and international economic conditions;•interest rates;•population growth and changing demographics; and•seasonal weather cycles (e.g., dry summers, wet winters).Decreases in the level of residential construction activity generally reduce demand for logs and wood products. This results in lower revenues, profits and cash flows. In addition, industry-wide increases in the supply of logs and wood products during favorable price environments can also lead to downward pressure on prices. Timber owners generally increase production volumes for logs and wood products during favorable price environments. Such increased production, however, when coupled with even modest declines in demand for these products in general, could lead to oversupply and lower prices.Our results of operations may also be subject to global economic changes as global supplies of wood fiber and wood products shift in response to changing economic conditions. Changes in global economic conditions that could affect our results of operations include, but are not limited to, new timber supply sources and changes in currency exchange rates, foreign and domestic interest rates and foreign and domestic trade policies. In particular, the limited availability of credit is having a negative financial impact on potential buyers of our logs, manufactured forest products and timberland.In addition, changes in our ability to sell or exchange non-strategic timberlands and timberland properties that have higher and better uses at attractive prices, or changes that adversely affect our ability to execute on certain real estate development activities conducted through our wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiaries, could have a significant effect on our results of operations. We do not expect significant improvement in real estate prices or demand during 2014, and recovery to pre-2009 levels may take several years. The following factors, among others, may adversely affect the timing and amount of our income generated by our timberland sales or our real estate development activities:•general economic conditions;•availability of funding for governmental agencies, developers, conservation organizations, individuals and others to purchase our timberlands for recreational, conservation, residential or other purposes;•local real estate market conditions, such as oversupply of, or reduced demand for, properties sharing the same or similar characteristics as our timberlands;•competition from other sellers of land and real estate developers;•weather conditions or natural disasters having an adverse effect on our properties;•relative illiquidity of real estate investments;•changes in interest rates;•impact of federal, state and local land use and environmental protection laws;•changes in laws, regulations or the regulatory environment affecting tax, real estate and zoning;•our ability to obtain all land use entitlements and other permits necessary for our development activities; or•real estate markets and their impact on our ability or the ability of our partners to timely pursue our joint venture development strategy.PLUM CREEK 2013 FORM 10-K | 13Table of ContentsPART I / ITEM 1A The Forest Products Industry is Highly CompetitiveThe forest products industry is highly competitive in terms of price and quality. Wood products are subject to increasing competition from a variety of substitute products, including non-wood and engineered wood products. For example, plywood markets are subject to competition from oriented strand board, and U.S. lumber and log markets are subject to competition from other worldwide suppliers.Historically, Canada has been a significant source of lumber for the U.S. market, particularly in the new home construction market. After years of trade disputes over Canadian lumber imports, the U.S. and Canada executed a definitive agreement establishing a system of tiered taxes and/or volume restrictions relating to Canadian lumber imports to the U.S. The agreement expires in 2015. Notwithstanding the signing of this agreement, there can be no assurance that it will at all times, or at any time, effectively create a fair trade environment. Therefore, downward pressure on domestic timber and lumber prices caused by Canadian imports could continue or increase.Our Joint Ventures May Pose Unique RisksWe participate in joint ventures and may participate in additional joint venture projects from time to time, including but not limited to joint ventures involving the ownership and management of timberlands, and we may enter into other joint venture projects with similar or different structures and terms. Any joint venture involves risks including, but not limited to, the risk that one or more of our joint venture partners takes actions that are contrary to our agreed upon terms, our instructions to them or to our policies or objectives, any one of which could cause adverse consequences for us.Our Cash Dividends are Not Guaranteed and May FluctuateWe have elected to be taxed as a REIT under sections 856-860 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”). Generally, REITs are required to distribute 90% of their taxable income. However, REITs are required to distribute only their ordinary taxable income and not their net capital gains income. Accordingly, we do not believe that we are required to distribute material amounts of cash given that substantially all of our taxable income is treated as capital gains income. To the extent capital gains income is not distributed to stockholders, a REIT would be subject to a 35% federal corporate income tax and applicable state income taxes on the undistributed capital gains income. In addition, the stockholders would be required to report their share of the retained capital gains income on their respective income tax returns, but would receive a refundable tax credit for their share of the tax paid at the corporate level.Our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, determines the amount of the quarterly dividends (including the determination of whether to retain net capital gains income) to be provided to our stockholders based on consideration of a number of factors including, but not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions, tax considerations, borrowing capacity and other factors, including future acquisitions and divestitures, harvest levels, changes in the price and demand for our products and general market demand for timberlands, including those timberland properties that have higher and better uses. Consequently, our dividend levels may fluctuate.We May Be Unsuccessful in Carrying Out Our Acquisition StrategyWe intend to pursue acquisitions of strategic timberland properties when market conditions warrant. As with any investment, our acquisitions may not perform in accordance with our expectations. In addition, we anticipate financing such acquisitions through cash from operations, borrowings under our unsecured credit facilities, proceeds from equity or debt offerings (including offerings of limited partnership units by our operating partnership) or proceeds from asset dispositions, or any combination thereof. Our inability to finance future acquisitions on favorable terms or the failure of any acquisitions to conform to our expectations, could adversely affect our results of operations.PLUM CREEK 2013 FORM 10-K | 14Table of ContentsPART I / ITEM 1A We Depend on External Sources of Capital for Future GrowthOur ability to finance growth is dependent to a significant degree on external sources of capital. Our ability to access such capital on favorable terms could be hampered by a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including, without limitation, a decline in general market conditions, decreased market liquidity, a downgrade to our public debt rating, increases in interest rates, an unfavorable market perception of our growth potential, a decrease in our current or estimated future earnings or a decrease in the market price of our common stock. In addition, our ability to access additional capital may also be limited by the terms of our existing indebtedness, which, among other things, restricts our incurrence of debt. Any of these factors, individually or in combination, could prevent us from being able to obtain the capital we require on terms that are acceptable to us, and the failure to obtain necessary capital could materially adversely affect our future growth. Our Ability to Harvest and Deliver Timber May Be Subject to Limitations Which Could Adversely Affect Our Results of OperationsOur primary assets are our timberlands. Weather conditions, timber growth cycles, access limitations, availability of contract loggers and haulers, and regulations associated with the protection of wildlife and water resources may restrict our ability to harvest our timberlands. Other factors that may restrict our timber harvest include damage to our standing timber by fire or by insect infestation, disease, prolonged drought, flooding, severe weather and other natural disasters. Changes in global climate conditions could intensify one or more of these factors. Although damage from such causes usually is localized and affects only a limited percentage of standing timber, there can be no assurance that any damage affecting our timberlands will in fact be so limited. As is common in the forest products industry, we do not maintain insurance coverage for damage to our timberlands. Our revenues, net income and cash flow from operations are dependent to a significant extent on the pricing of our products and our continued ability to harvest timber at adequate levels. Therefore, if we were to be restricted from harvesting on a significant portion of our timberlands for a prolonged period of time, or if material damage to a significant portion of our standing timber were to occur, then we could suffer an adverse impact to our results of operations. Activities Conducted on Our Timberlands and in Our Manufacturing Facilities are Subject to Federal and State Environmental Laws and RegulationsLaws, regulations and related judicial decisions and administrative interpretations affecting our business are subject to change, and new laws and regulations that may affect our business are frequently enacted. These changes may adversely affect our ability to harvest and sell timber, operate our manufacturing facilities, remediate contaminated properties and/or develop real estate. These laws and regulations relate to, among other things, the protection of timberlands, endangered species, timber harvesting practices, recreation and aesthetics and the protection and restoration of natural resources, air and water quality. Over time, the complexity and stringency of these laws and regulations have increased, and the enforcement of these laws and regulations has intensified, and this trend is expected to continue.We are subject to regulation under, among other laws, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act ("CWA"), the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 and the Endangered Species Act, as well as comparable state laws and regulations. Any violation of these and similar environmental laws and related rules and regulations that apply to our operations could result in significant civil penalties and remediation expenses, along with potential injunctions, cease and desist orders and criminal penalties.We engage directly in the following activities that are subject to regulation:•forestry activities, including harvesting, planting, herbicide and other silvicultural activities, and construction, use and maintenance of roads;•the generation of air emissions;•the discharge of industrial wastewater and storm water; and•the generation and disposal of both hazardous and non-hazardous chemicals and materials.PLUM CREEK 2013 FORM 10-K | 15Table of ContentsPART I / ITEM 1A Some environmental laws impose strict liability, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to the person’s negligence or fault. These laws or future legislation or administrative or judicial action with respect to protection of the environment may adversely affect our business or require significant expenditures.We are occasionally involved in environmental management matters and proceedings related to our manufacturing operations, our manufactured products and our timberland and natural resources holdings. Our manufacturing processes use hazardous substances and generate pollutants. Accordingly, we may be subject to claims for product liability or negligence, including claims for personal injury or property damage alleged to have arisen out of the use of our products or the release of hazardous substances. Moreover, on some of our vast land holdings we may discover environmental contamination. To date, we have not incurred significant costs for any material liabilities relating to such matters.The Endangered Species Act and comparable state laws protect species threatened with possible extinction. A number of species on our timberlands have been and in the future may be protected under these laws. Protection of threatened and endangered species may include restrictions on timber harvesting, road building and other forest practices on private, federal and state land containing the affected species.The CWA regulates the direct and indirect discharge of pollutants into the waters of the United States. Under the CWA, it is unlawful to discharge any pollutant from a “point source” into U.S. navigable waters without a permit obtained under the Environmental Protection Agency's (“EPA”) National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System ("NPDES") permit program.In 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled that ditches and culverts associated with “forest roads” were “point sources” under the CWA and thus required NPDES permits. The plaintiff alleged that the defendants violated the CWA by not obtaining EPA permits for stormwater runoff from logging roads into systems of ditches, culverts and channels that is then discharged into forest streams and rivers. This decision overturned a long-standing EPA interpretation of Phase I of its Industrial Stormwater Rule under which EPA exempts certain sources of runoff from CWA permitting. Since 1976, the EPA has exempted from NPDES permitting requirements “point source” silviculture activities such as nursery operations, site preparation, reforestation and subsequent silvicultural treatment, thinning, prescribed burning, pest and fire control, harvesting operations, surface drainage, or road construction and maintenance from which there is “natural runoff”. Under the EPA’s interpretation of Phase I of its Industrial Stormwater Rule, the agency does not require permitting for discharges from ditches, culverts and channels that collect stormwater runoff from logging roads. The EPA, however, stated that stormwater discharges from forest roads should be evaluated under “Phase II” of the Stormwater Rule because it allows for a broad range of flexible approaches that are better suited to address the complexity of forest road ownership, management, and use. In March 2013, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed the Ninth Circuit court’s decision and upheld the EPA’s interpretation of its Industrial Stormwater Rule. Stormwater runoff from logging roads and related silvicultural activities thus remain exempt under Phase I of the Stormwater Rule from NPDES permitting requirements. In addition to the Court's ruling, Congress recently passed legislation confirming that NPDES permitting cannot be required under either Phase I or Phase II of the EPA's Stormwater Rules. However, the EPA remains free to regulate stormwater discharges from forest roads through measures other than NPDES permitting, including state regulation and voluntary best management practices. In addition to the foregoing activities, we have leased some of our properties to third-party operators for the purpose of exploring, developing and producing oil and gas and rock and mineral extraction in exchange for fees and royalty payments. These activities are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations. Some of our third party leases related to oil and gas activities involve third party operators drilling wells, and some of these wells involve hydraulic fracturing, which is a process that creates a fracture extending from the well bore in a rock formation to enable gas or oil to move through the rock pores to a production well. Fractures are typically created through the injection of water, chemicals and sand into the rock formation. On some of our properties, these operations may create risk of environmental liabilities for any unlawful discharge of oil, gas or other chemicals into the air, soil or water. Generally, our lease arrangements provide that our third-party operators indemnify us against any such operating liability and that they maintain liability insurance. However, if for any reason our third-party operators do not indemnify us, or if liability insurance were not in effect, then it is possible that we could be responsible for costs associated with PLUM CREEK 2013 FORM 10-K | 16Table of ContentsPART I / ITEM 1A environmental liability caused by third-party operators. If that were to occur, such costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.The Impacts of any Climate-Related Legislation or Regulation Remain Uncertain at This TimeThere are several international, federal and state-level proposals addressing domestic and global climate issues. Generally, such proposals in the U.S. could impose regulation or taxation on the production of carbon dioxide and other “greenhouse gases” in an attempt to reduce emissions to the atmosphere, and provide tax and other incentives to produce and use more “clean energy.” Any future legislative and regulatory activity in this area could, in some way, affect us, but it is unclear at this time whether any such impact would be positive, negative, or significant.Changes in Transportation Availability or CostsOur business depends on the availability of logging contractors and providers of transportation of wood products, and is materially affected by the cost of these service providers. Therefore, an increase in the cost of fuel could negatively impact our financial results by increasing the cost associated with logging activities and transportation services, and could also result in an overall reduction in the availability of these services.Stock OwnershipProvisions in Our Certificate of Incorporation and Delaware Law May Prevent a Change in ControlSome provisions of our certificate of incorporation may discourage a third party from seeking to gain control of us. For example, the ownership limitations described in our certificate of incorporation could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or limiting a change of control in which holders of our common stock might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price. The following is a summary of provisions of our certificate of incorporation that may have this effect.Ownership Limit. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, not more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. For the purpose of preserving our REIT qualification, our certificate of incorporation prohibits ownership, either directly or under the applicable attribution rules of the Internal Revenue Code, of more than 9.8% of the lesser of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding or the value of the outstanding shares of our common stock by any stockholder (the “Ownership Limit”). The Ownership Limit may have the effect of discouraging an acquisition of control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors.The Ownership Limit in our certificate of incorporation also restricts the transfer of our common stock. For example, any transfer of our equity is null and void if the transfer would:•result in any person owning, directly or indirectly, equity in excess of the Ownership Limit;•result in our equity being owned, directly or indirectly, by fewer than 100 persons;•result in us being “closely held” (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code);•result in us failing to qualify as a “domestically controlled REIT” (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code); or•otherwise cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT.Preferred Stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 75 million shares of preferred stock. Upon issuance, our Board of Directors will establish the preferences and rights for this preferred stock. These preferences and rights may include the right to elect additional directors. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us even if a change in control were in our stockholders’ best interests.Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally prohibits us from engaging in business transactions with a person or entity that owns 15% or more of our voting stock for a period of three years following the time such person or entity became an “interested stockholder” unless, prior to such time, our Board of Directors approved either the business combination or the transaction which resulted in such person or entity becoming an interested stockholder. A business transaction may include mergers, PLUM CREEK 2013 FORM 10-K | 17Table of ContentsPART I / ITEM 1A asset sales and other transactions resulting in financial benefit to the person or entity that owns 15% or more of our voting stock.Tax RisksIf We Fail to Qualify as a REIT, We Would Be Subject to Tax at Corporate Rates and Would Not Be Able to Deduct Dividends to Stockholders When Computing Our Taxable IncomeIf in any taxable year we fail to qualify as a REIT, unless we were entitled to relief under the Internal Revenue Code:•we would be subject to federal and state income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates;•we would not be allowed to deduct dividends to stockholders in computing our taxable income; and•we would also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we lost qualification.If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we might need to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the additional tax liability. Accordingly, funds available for investment or dividends to our stockholders would be reduced.Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code to our operations and the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. There are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations of these provisions. Although we operate in a manner consistent with the REIT qualification rules, we cannot assure you that we are or will remain so qualified. In addition, federal and state tax laws are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the Internal Revenue Service, the United States Department of the Treasury, and state taxing authorities. Changes to the tax law could adversely affect our stockholders. We cannot predict with certainty whether, when, in what forms, or with what effective dates, the tax laws applicable to us or our stockholders may be changed.Certain of Our Business Activities are Potentially Subject to Prohibited Transactions Tax or Corporate-Level Income TaxUnder the Internal Revenue Code, REITs must generally engage in the ownership and management of income producing real estate. For Plum Creek, this generally includes owning and managing a timberland portfolio for the production and sale of standing timber. Accordingly, the manufacture and sale by us of wood products, the harvesting and sale of logs, the development and/or sale of certain timberlands and certain mineral royalty transactions are conducted through one or more of our wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRSs”) because such activities could either generate non-qualifying REIT income or could constitute “prohibited transactions.” Prohibited transactions are defined by the Internal Revenue Code generally to be sales or other dispositions of property to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business. By conducting our business as described above we believe that we satisfy the REIT requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and should not be subject to the 100% tax that could be imposed if a REIT were to engage in a prohibited transaction. We may not always be successful, however, in limiting such activities to our TRSs. Therefore, we could be subject to the 100% prohibited transactions tax if such instances were to occur. The net income of our TRSs is subject to corporate-level income tax.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.PLUM CREEK 2013 FORM 10-K | 18Table of ContentsPART I / ITEM 2 