ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our confidence in our prospects and strategies and our expectations about growth of existing markets and our ability to expand into new markets, to identify and acquire complementary businesses and to attract new sources of financing, are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. In addition to statements which are forward-looking by reason of context, the words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "designed," "goal," "objective," "optimistic," "will" and other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. In light of the risks and uncertainties inherent in all future projections, the inclusion of the forward-looking statements should not be regarded as guarantees of performance. Although we believe that our plans, objectives, intentions and expenditures reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that our plans objectives, intentions and expenditures will be achieved. Our forward-looking statements are made based on expectations and beliefs concerning future events affecting us and are subject to uncertainties, risks and factors relating to our operations and business environments, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control, that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those matters expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. These risks and other factors include those listed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this report. When considering these risk factors, you should keep in mind the cautionary statements elsewhere in this report and the documents incorporated by reference. New risks and uncertainties arise from time to time, and we cannot predict those events or how they may affect us. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or risk factor after the date of this report as a result of new information, future events or developments, except as required by the federal securities laws. 12 We are the subject of investigations by the SEC and the Department of Justice (DOJ) which may harm our business and results of operations. As we have previously disclosed, the SEC provided Hawk with a formal order of private investigation that relates to the informal inquiry commenced by the SEC. The investigation concerns activity from June 2006 to the present involving (1) Hawk’s preparations for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 404), (2) the maintenance and evaluation of the effectiveness by Hawk of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, (3) transactions in Hawk’s common stock by a stockholder that is not affiliated with Hawk, including the impact of those transactions when Hawk would be required to comply with Section 404, (4) the calculation of the amount of Hawk common stock held by non-affiliates and the effect of the calculation when Hawk would be required to comply with Section 404, (5) communications between Hawk and third parties regarding Section 404 compliance and (6) Hawk’s periodic disclosure requirements related to the foregoing. We fully cooperated with the informal inquiry and continue to cooperate fully with the formal investigation by the SEC. As previously disclosed, Hawk has also been contacted by the DOJ in connection with the DOJ’s investigation. We cannot predict the outcome of any of these investigations. We will continue to incur additional expenses related to the SEC and DOJ investigations, and the expenses may be substantial, including indemnification costs for which we may be responsible. In the event that there is an adverse development in connection with the SEC or DOJ investigations, our business and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Furthermore, responding to the SEC and DOJ investigations may require significant diversion of management’s attention and resources. We have broad discretion over the use of proceeds from the sale of our precision components segment. In February 2007, we completed the sale of our precision components segment. Pursuant to the terms of the indenture relating to our 8¾% senior notes due November 1, 2014 (senior notes), we had until July 31, 2007, to apply the net proceeds of the sale to repay indebtedness, make open market purchases of our senior notes, acquire property, plant and equipment, make an acquisition or enter into any combination of any of the above. On July 11, 2007, we made an offer to purchase, on a pro rata basis, $84.9 million of our senior notes, at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest. The offer was accepted by our senior note holders representing $22.9 million. We invested the remaining net cash proceeds in marketable securities and we can use these remaining proceeds at our discretion, provided we comply with the terms of our senior notes and Credit and Security Agreement, dated November 1, 2004, with KeyBank National Association, serving as Administrative Agent and Letter of Credit Issuer (the bank facility). We are currently in the process of identifying the manner in which we will use the proceeds from the sale. As such, the terms of any investment or transaction including acquisitions, have not yet been determined, and no assurances can be made as to the structure, price or other terms of such investment or transaction, the impact of such investment or transaction on our business, results of operations and financial condition or that such investment or transaction will be available to us on favorable terms or at all. If we fail to apply these funds effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our gross profit margins are subject to fluctuation because of product mix. Certain of our products have lower gross profit margins than our other products. Our consolidated gross margin was 23.2% for the year ended 2007, compared to 22.0% for the year ended 2006. Our margins in 2007 were positively impacted by pricing actions taken beginning in the last half of 2006 and continued operating improvements in our domestic facilities, including Tulsa, compared to 2006. We cannot guarantee that, in the future, our product mix will continue to be made up of higher gross margin product sales. We operate in a highly competitive industry, which may prevent us from growing and may decrease our business. We operate in an industry that is highly competitive and fragmented. There are many small manufacturers in our industry and only a few generate annual sales in excess of $50.0 million. Our larger competitors may have greater financial resources to devote to manufacturing, promotion and sales, which could adversely affect our customer relationships or product mix. We compete for new business primarily when our existing customers develop new applications or redesign existing applications, which may involve lengthy periods of development and testing. For example, developing new aircraft braking systems typically begins two to five years before full-scale production. Although we have successfully obtained this business from our customers in the past, we may be unable to obtain this business in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our success will depend on our ability to continue to meet our customers’ changing specifications with respect to reliability and timeliness of delivery, technical expertise, product design capability, manufacturing expertise, operational flexibility, customer service and overall management. 13 Some of our competitors use different technologies, such as carbon composite friction material for aircraft braking system components. Our competitors’ use of different technology may adversely affect our ability to compete and negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, we may lose business to competitors that may be able to offer products at lower costs. Some competitors may be able to transfer the manufacturing of their products to lower wage locations resulting in lower production costs which may be passed through to customers. Increased competition may exert strong pressures on our profitability and impair our ability to successfully grow. Work stoppages by union employees may negatively impact our business. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 20.0% of our employees were represented by unions. The majority of our union employees are located in our Orzinuovi, Italy facility. If it is necessary to negotiate new agreements or extensions with the unions, we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so on favorable terms or without experiencing work stoppages. The national mechanics union agreement and the local union agreement covering our Italian employees expire in December 2009 and December 2008, respectively. Any work stoppage may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may require significant ongoing and recurring additional capital expenditures and investment in research and development, manufacturing and other areas to remain competitive. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve the technological advances or introduce new products that may be necessary to remain competitive within our business. In addition, we cannot assure you that any technology development by us can be adequately protected such that we can maintain a sustainable competitive advantage. We are subject to governmental regulations that may affect our ability to implement our business objectives. Our net sales to manufacturers of aircraft braking systems represented 15.3% of our consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2007. Every aircraft braking system, including those containing components supplied by us, must satisfy FAA criteria and testing requirements. If we fail to meet these requirements or any new or changed requirements, then our results of operations may be adversely affected or we may not be able to meet our business objectives. There can be no assurance that FAA review of an aircraft braking system containing components supplied by us will result in a favorable determination or that we or our customers will continue to meet FAA criteria and testing requirements, which are subject to change in the discretion of the FAA. Environmental and health and safety liabilities and requirements could require us to incur material costs. We are subject to various U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and worker health and safety, including those governing: · discharges of pollutants into the air and water, · the management and disposal of hazardous substances, and · the cleanup of contaminated properties. The nature of our operations exposes us to the risk of liabilities or claims with respect to environmental matters, including on-site and off-site disposal matters. Future events could require us to make additional expenditures to modify or curtail our operations, install pollution control equipment or investigate and cleanup contaminated sites, such as: · the discovery of new information concerning past releases of hazardous substances, · the discovery or occurrence of compliance problems relating to our operations, and · changes in existing environmental laws or their interpretation. 14 We are also subject to the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act and similar foreign and state laws. The nature of our operations, the extensive uses of our existing and former facilities, and the operations of prior owners and operators expose us to the risk of liabilities or claims concerning environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. We are not aware of any instance in which we have contravened federal, state, or local provisions enacted for or relating to protection of the environment or in which we otherwise may be subject under environmental laws to liability for environmental conditions that could materially affect operations. We are dependent upon the availability of raw materials, and we may not be able to receive favorable prices for, or continued supplies of, raw materials, which may affect our ability to obtain enough supplies to conduct our business. We require substantial amounts of raw materials, including copper powders, steel and custom-fabricated cellulose sheet. Substantially all of the raw materials we require are purchased from third party suppliers and are generally in adequate supply. However, the availability and costs of raw materials may be subject to change due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, suppliers’ allocation to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers and changes in exchange rates and worldwide price and demand levels. We are not currently party to any long-term supply agreements. Our inability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials for our products at favorable prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results or operations by decreasing our profit margins and by hindering our ability to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. Recently, we have experienced an increase in the costs of our copper and iron powders and steel. Although we may determine that it is necessary to pass on the raw material price increases to our customers, in certain circumstances, it may not be possible or practicable for us to pass on these increases, and even if we are able to pass on some or all of these increases, there may be a delay between when we have to pay for the increases and when our customers pay us based on the increased prices. If we are not able to reduce or eliminate the effect of these cost increases through lowering other costs of production or successfully implementing price increases to our customers, such raw material cost increases could have a negative effect on our financial results. We are subject to risks associated with international operations. We conduct business outside the United States which subjects us to the risks inherent in international operations. Risks inherent in international operations include the following: · foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including exchange controls, · fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of products and services provided by us in foreign markets where payment for our products is made in local currency, · unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements may occur, · compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may be difficult, and · overlap of different tax laws may subject us to additional taxes. Our international net sales represented $84.2 million, or 36.8% of our consolidated net sales, for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to $64.5 million or 30.4% of our consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2006. We are dependent on a small number of customers for a large portion of our sales. In 2007, our top five customers made up approximately 42.6% of our total net sales. Our largest customer, Caterpillar, accounted for approximately 16.7% of our total net sales in 2007. While we sell multiple product applications to each of our top five customers, the loss of any of those customers or significant changes in prices or other terms with any of those customers could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on our key personnel. Our performance depends on our ability to retain and motivate officers and key employees. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key employees could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We have employment agreements with Ronald E. Weinberg, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President, B. Christopher Disantis, President of our friction products and performance racing segments and Joseph J. Levanduski, Vice President - Chief Financial Officer. Hawk maintains a “key person” life insurance policy on the life of Mr. Weinberg in the face amount of $1.0 million. 15 Our future success also depends on identifying, attracting, hiring, training, retaining and motivating other highly skilled technical, managerial and marketing personnel. Competition for these employees is intense, and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. Our existing preferred shareholders have the ability to exert voting control with respect to the election of directors. Ronald E. Weinberg, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President, Norman C. Harbert, Chairman Emeritus and Founder, and Byron S. Krantz, Secretary and Director, beneficially own 45%, 45% and 10%, respectively, of the outstanding shares of our Series D preferred stock as well as 14%, 13% and 3%, respectively, of our Class A common stock. The holders of our Series D preferred stock are entitled to elect a majority of the members of our Board of Directors. Accordingly, if any two of these shareholders vote their shares of Series D preferred stock in the same manner, they will have sufficient voting power (without the consent of our holders of Class A common stock) to elect a majority of the Board of Directors and to thereby control and direct the policies of the Board of Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 