ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our confidence in our prospects and strategies and our expectations about growth of existing markets and our ability to expand into new markets, to identify and acquire complementary businesses and to attract new sources of financing, are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. In addition to statements which are forward-looking by reason of context, the words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "designed," "goal," "objective," "optimistic," "will" and other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. In light of the risks and uncertainties inherent in all future projections, the inclusion of the forward-looking statements should not be regarded as guarantees of performance. Although we believe that our plans, objectives, intentions and expenditures reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that our plans objectives, intentions and expenditures will be achieved. Our forward-looking statements are made based on expectations and beliefs concerning future events affecting us and are subject to uncertainties, risks and factors relating to our operations and business environments, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control, that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those matters expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. These risks and other factors include those listed under Item 1A "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this report. When considering these risk factors, you should keep in mind the cautionary statements elsewhere in this report and the documents incorporated by reference. New risks and uncertainties arise from time to time, and we cannot predict those events or how they may affect us. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements or risk factor after the date of this report as a result of new information, future events or developments, except as required by the federal securities laws. We continue to experience manufacturing inefficiencies at our Oklahoma friction products facility We have relocated one of our friction products manufacturing facilities from Brook Park, Ohio to a new facility in Tulsa, Oklahoma. We began production in the new facility at the beginning of 2005. Our Brook Park facility ceased operations at the end of the third quarter of 2005. In connection with the relocation, we incurred costs at levels higher than we originally anticipated, and we continue to incur additional costs. Expenses related to the relocation and employee severance costs associated with the closure of our Brook Park, facility were $5.5 million in 2005 (of which $0.5 million was included in Cost of sales). We incurred significant additional expenses as of result of manufacturing inefficiencies related to the move of that facility to Oklahoma. We expect to incur additional expenses during the first half of 2006, as we continue to experience manufacturing inefficiencies at the Oklahoma facility. Future success at the Oklahoma facility depends on our ability to: · hire, train and retain a qualified workforce, · manufacture friction products without causing customer delays or dissatisfaction, and · achieve the projected cost savings including whether the cost savings can be achieved in a timely fashion. Failure to successfully complete the transition of our business to the new facility may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 14 Expenses related to the relocation and employee severance costs associated with closure of our Brook Park, Ohio facility were $5.5 million ($0.5 million included in Cost of sales) in 2005. We incurred significant additional expenses as of result of manufacturing inefficiencies related to the move of the facility to Oklahoma. We expect to incur additional expenses during the first half of 2006 as we continue to experience manufacturing inefficiencies at the Oklahoma facility. We have incurred losses in the past and may incur losses in future years. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we reported a net loss of $1.3 million compared to net income of $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 and a net loss of $5.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Of the 2005 net loss, $5.5 million ($0.5 million in Cost of sales) resulted from a pre-tax charge related to the relocation of our friction products facility from Brook Park, Ohio to Tulsa, Oklahoma. If we incur additional losses in the future or do not increase net income, then our growth potential and our ability to execute our business strategy may be constrained. In addition, our ability to service our debt, may be harmed because we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to pay principal or interest when due. We may be unable to generate sufficient taxable income from future operations to fully utilize our significant tax net operating loss carryforwards or maintain our deferred tax assets. We have a recent history of unprofitable operations primarily due to domestic operating losses. These losses have generated significant federal tax net operating losses, or NOLs. We had available at December 31, 2005, total NOL carryforwards for federal tax purposes of approximately $27.5 million that will begin to expire in the year 2023. Further, even though we expect to be profitable and generate taxable income in 2006 and beyond, we may not be able to sustain the necessary levels of taxable income to fully utilize our significant NOL carryforwards prior to expiration. There is considerable management judgment necessary to determine future taxable income, and accordingly, actual results could vary significantly from such estimates. Accordingly, the recorded amount of the deferred tax assets considered realizable could be reduced in the near term if estimates of our tax planning strategy or our future taxable income are reduced. If actual results differ from our plans or we do not achieve profitability, we may be required to incur a valuation allowance on our tax assets by taking a charge to our tax provision in our Statement of Operations. Accordingly, our inability to generate domestic pre-tax profit may require us to record a tax valuation allowance in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS 109). If this occurs, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our China precision component facility and metal injection molding operation have yet to achieve profitability. Our precision components operation in China commenced operations in 2003, and we began our metal injection molding operation, which is also a part of our precision component segment, in 2000. We expect that our precision components operations in China and our metal injection molding operation will have operating losses in 2006. We cannot be certain when, or if, either of these operations will be profitable. Our precision components segment may be adversely affected by low-cost production in China. Our precision components segment is able to produce powder metal components at a lower cost per unit than products manufactured with forging, casting or stamping technologies due to the reduction in secondary machining, lower material costs and the virtual elimination of raw material waste. However, we may not be able to successfully compete with components manufactured in China at a lower cost using these traditional manufacturing technologies. Our net income may be impacted by the sale of our motor segment. We anticipate selling the balance of our motor segment as an ongoing business during the first half of 2006 and are accounting for the results of the motor segment as a discontinued operation in our financial statements. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in divesting the motor segment, or if divested, that the terms of the transaction will be satisfactory to us. There may be additional charges required to reflect actual results of a sale. Work stoppages by union employees may negatively impact our business. 15 As of December 31, 2005, 12.4% of our employees were represented by unions. If it is necessary to negotiate new agreements or extensions with the unions, we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so on favorable terms or without experiencing work stoppages. Any work stoppage may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our gross margins are subject to fluctuation because of product mix. Certain of our friction products have lower gross margins than our other friction products, and in general, our precision component products have lower gross margins than our friction products. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our friction products segment gross profit was 20.2% of net sales compared to our precision components segment gross profit margin of 18.9% of net sales. Our consolidated gross margin was 19.7% for the year ended 2005 compared to 23.4% for the year ended 2004. Our margins in 2005 were negatively impacted by costs related to a move of a friction products manufacturing facility from Ohio to Oklahoma. We cannot guarantee that, in the future, our product mix will continue to be made up of higher gross margin product sales. We operate in a highly competitive industry, which may prevent us from growing and may decrease our business. We operate in an industry that is highly competitive and fragmented. There are many small manufacturers in our industry and only a few generate annual sales in excess of $50.0 million. Our larger competitors have greater financial resources to devote to manufacturing, promotion and sales, which could adversely affect our customer relationships or product mix. We compete for new business primarily when our existing customers develop new applications or redesign existing applications, which may involve lengthy periods of development and testing. For example, developing new aircraft braking systems typically begins two to five years before full-scale production. Although we have successfully obtained this business from our customers in the past, we may be unable to obtain this business in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our success will depend on our ability to continue to meet our customers’ changing specifications with respect to reliability and timeliness of delivery, technical expertise, product design capability, manufacturing expertise, operational flexibility, customer service and overall management. Some of our competitors use different technologies, such as carbon composite friction material for aircraft braking system components. We also compete with manufacturers using more traditional forging, casting and stamping technology. Our competitors’ use of different technology may adversely affect our ability to compete and negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our debt could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. As of December 31, 2005, we had $110.5 million of net debt outstanding compared to $106.2 million as of December 31, 2004. Our high level of debt could have important consequences, including the following: · it may make it difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt and contractual and commercial commitments, · we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our debt, which reduces funds available to us for other purposes, · all of the debt outstanding under our Bank Facility is secured by certain of our assets, · our Bank Facility has a variable rate of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates, · our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be limited, · our high level of debt could limit our flexibility in reacting to changes in the industry and make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in our business or economic conditions in general, · our high level of debt could place us at a competitive disadvantage to those of our competitors who operate on a less leveraged basis, and 16 · our high level of debt could place us at a competitive disadvantage to those of our competitors who operate on a less leveraged basis, and · if we fail to comply with the covenants in the instruments governing our other debt, such failure could have material adverse effect on our business and our ability to repay our debt. Our ability to make payments on our debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance and our ability to refinance our debt, which could be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, certain of which are beyond our control. We may require significant ongoing and recurring additional capital expenditures and investment in research and development, manufacturing and other areas to remain competitive. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve the technological advances or introduce new products that may be necessary to remain competitive within our business. In addition, we cannot assure you that any technology development by us can be adequately protected such that we can maintain a sustainable competitive advantage. Our goodwill may be subject to asset impairment charges. In 2002 we adopted SFAS No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142), and in the year of adoption recognized impairment of a portion of our goodwill. We test the remaining goodwill reported in our precision components and performance racing segments annually, and have determined that no further impairment has occurred. In assessing the recoverability of our goodwill, we consider changes in economic conditions and make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors. Estimates of future discounted cash flows are highly subjective judgments based on our experience and knowledge of operations. These estimates can be significantly impacted by many factors including changes in global and local business and economic conditions, operating costs, inflation, and competitive trends. We cannot assure you that future goodwill impairment will not occur or that if such impairment occurs that it will not adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. We are subject to governmental regulations that may affect our ability to implement our business objectives. Our net sales to manufacturers of aircraft braking systems represented 10.2% of our consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2005. Every aircraft braking system, including those containing components supplied by us, must satisfy Federal Aviation Administration criteria and testing requirements. If we fail to meet these requirements or any new or changed requirements, then our results of operations may be adversely affected or we may not be able to meet our business objectives. There can be no assurance that Federal Aviation Administration review of an aircraft braking system containing components supplied by us will result in a favorable determination or that we or our customers will continue to meet Federal Aviation Administration criteria and testing requirements, which are subject to change in the discretion of the Federal Aviation Administration. Environmental and health and safety liabilities and requirements could require us to incur material costs. We are subject to various U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and worker health and safety, including those governing: · discharges of pollutants into the air and water, · the management and disposal of hazardous substances, and · the cleanup of contaminated properties. The nature of our operations exposes us to the risk of liabilities or claims with respect to environmental matters, including on-site and off-site disposal matters. Future events could require us to make additional expenditures to modify or curtail our operations, install pollution control equipment or investigate and cleanup contaminated sites, such as: · the discovery of new information concerning past releases of hazardous substances, 17 · the discovery or occurrence of compliance problems relating to our operations, and · changes in existing environmental laws or their interpretation. We are also subject to the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act and similar foreign and state laws. The nature of our operations, the extensive uses of our existing and former facilities, and the operations of prior owners and operators expose us to the risk of liabilities or claims concerning environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. We are dependent upon the availability of raw materials, and we may not be able to receive favorable prices for, or continued supplies of, raw materials, which may affect our ability to obtain enough supplies to conduct our business. We require substantial amounts of raw materials, including copper and iron powders, steel and custom-fabricated cellulose sheet and substantially all of the raw materials we require are purchased from third party suppliers and are generally in adequate supply. However, the availability and costs of raw materials may be subject to change due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, suppliers’ allocation to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers and changes in exchange rates and worldwide price and demand levels. We are not currently party to any long-term supply agreements. Our inability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials for our products at favorable prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results or operations by decreasing our profit margins and by hindering our ability to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. Recently, we have experienced an increase in the costs of our copper and iron powders and steel. Although we may determine that it is necessary to pass on the raw material price increases to our customers, in certain circumstances, it may not be possible or practicable for us to pass on these increases. If we are not able to reduce or eliminate the effect of these cost increases through lowering other costs of production or successfully implementing price increases to our customers, such raw material cost increases could have a negative effect on our financial results. We are subject to risks associated with international operations. We conduct business outside the United States which subjects us to the risks inherent in international operations. Risks inherent in international operations include the following: · foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including exchange controls, · fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of products and services provided by us in foreign markets where payment for our products is made in local currency, · unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements may occur, · compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may be difficult, and · overlap of different tax laws may subject us to additional taxes. Our international net sales represented $55.0 million, or 27.2% of our consolidated net sales, for the year ended December 31, 2005. We depend on our key personnel. Our performance depends on our ability to retain and motivate officers and key employees. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key employees could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Hawk has an employment agreement with Ronald E. Weinberg, its Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President, and maintains a “key person” life insurance policy on the life of Mr. Weinberg in the face amount of $1.0 million. 18 Our future success also depends on identifying, attracting, hiring, training, retaining and motivating other highly skilled technical, managerial and marketing personnel. Competition for these employees is intense, and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. Our existing preferred shareholders have the ability to exert voting control with respect to the election of directors. Ronald E. Weinberg, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President, Norman C. Harbert, Chairman Emeritus and Founder, and Byron S. Krantz, Secretary and Director, beneficially own 45%, 45% and 10%, respectively, of the outstanding shares of our Series D preferred stock as well as 14%, 13% and 3%, respectively, of our Class A common stock. The holders of our Series D preferred stock are entitled to elect a majority of the members of our board of directors. Accordingly, if any two of these shareholders vote their shares of Series D preferred stock in the same manner, they will have sufficient voting power (without the consent of our holders of Class A common stock) to elect a majority of the board of directors and to thereby control and direct the policies of the board of directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 