ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This discussion includes forward-looking statements which are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as discussed in Item 2 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this report. Worldwide economic conditions and credit tightening could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Our business may be adversely impacted by changes in the United States or global economic conditions, including inflation, deflation, interest rates, the ability of capital, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs, and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. Volatility in financial markets and the deterioration of national and global economic conditions could materially adversely impact our operations, financial results or liquidity including the following: the financial stability of our customers or suppliers may be compromised, which could result in additional bad debt for us or non-performance by suppliers; it may become more costly or difficult to obtain financing or refinance our debt in the future; the value of our assets held in pension plans may decline; and/or our assets may be impaired and subject to write down or write off. Uncertainty about global economic conditions may cause decrease in purchases or usage of our products by customers; reduction in purchases of our products by our customers due to their efforts to reduce inventory and conserve cash or their inability to obtain financing; disruption in our business due to our inability to obtain raw material from our suppliers; and/or decreased profit margins due to less demand for our products. A further deterioration in economic conditions would likely exacerbate these adverse effects and could result in a wide-ranging and prolonged impact on general business conditions, thereby negatively impacting our business, results of operations and financial position. We may not fully realize the benefits from our cost reduction initiatives and efforts to increase productivity Our ongoing cost reduction initiatives may not produce anticipated results. No assurance can be given that the implementation of the cost reduction initiatives will generate all of the anticipated cost savings and other benefits or that future or additional measures are not required. We may have incorrectly anticipated the extent and term of the market decline and weakness for our products and we may be forced to restructure further or may incur future operating charges due to poor business conditions. We are the subject of investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Department of Justice (DOJ) which may harm our business and results of operations. As we have previously disclosed, the SEC provided Hawk with a formal order of private investigation that relates to the informal inquiry commenced by the SEC. The investigation concerns activity from June 2006 involving (1) Hawk’s preparations for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 404), (2) the maintenance and evaluation of the effectiveness by Hawk of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, (3) transactions in Hawk’s common stock by a stockholder that is not affiliated with Hawk, including the impact of those transactions on the date when Hawk would have been required to comply with Section 404, (4) the calculation of the amount of Hawk common stock held by non-affiliates and the effect of the calculation on the date when Hawk would have been required to comply with Section 404, (5) communications between Hawk and third parties regarding Section 404 compliance and (6) Hawk’s periodic disclosure requirements related to the foregoing. We fully cooperated with the informal inquiry and continue to cooperate fully with the formal investigation by the SEC. 10 Table of Contents The staff of the SEC (the Staff) has orally confirmed that it does not intend to recommend that any enforcement action be instituted against Hawk. However, there can be no assurance that the Staff will not reverse its decision and ultimately decide to recommend such an action, or that the SEC itself will not institute such an action. As previously disclosed, Hawk has also been contacted by the DOJ in connection with the DOJ’s investigation. We cannot predict the outcome of any of these investigations. We will continue to incur additional expenses related to the SEC and DOJ investigations, and the expenses may be substantial, including indemnification costs for which we may be responsible. In the event that there is an adverse development in connection with the SEC or DOJ investigations, our business and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Furthermore, responding to the SEC and DOJ investigations may require significant diversion of management’s attention and resources. We have broad discretion over the use of our cash and short-term investments. We have broad discretion over the use of our cash and short-term investments, provided we comply with the terms of our senior notes and our bank facility. We continue to explore options to utilize our cash and short-term investments, including stock repurchases, senior note repurchases and acquisitions. The terms of any investment or transaction including acquisitions have not yet been determined, and no assurances can be made as to the structure, price or other terms of such investment or transaction, the impact of such investment or transaction on our business, results of operations and financial position or that such investment or transaction will be available to us on favorable terms or at all. If we fail to apply these funds effectively, our business, results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. Our gross profit margins are subject to fluctuation because of product mix. Certain of our products have lower gross profit margins than our other products. Our consolidated gross margin has benefited from the impact of the sale of higher gross margin products. We cannot guarantee that our product mix will continue to be made up of higher gross margin product sales in the future. We operate in a highly competitive industry, which may prevent us from growing and may decrease our business. We operate in an industry that is highly competitive and fragmented, and there are many small manufacturers in our industry. Our larger competitors may have greater financial resources to devote to manufacturing, promotion and sales, which could adversely affect our customer relationships or product mix. We compete for new business primarily when our existing customers develop new applications or redesign existing applications, which may involve lengthy periods of development and testing. For example, developing brake and transmission systems can begin several years before full-scale production due to the testing regiments required by the manufacturers. Although we have successfully obtained this business from our customers in the past, we may be unable to obtain this business in the future, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and prospects. Our success will depend on our ability to continue to meet our customers’ changing specifications with respect to reliability and timeliness of delivery, technical expertise, product design capability, manufacturing expertise, operational flexibility, customer service and overall management. Some of our competitors use different technologies, such as carbon composite friction material for aircraft braking system components. Our competitors’ use of different technology may adversely affect our ability to compete and negatively impact our financial position, results of operations and prospects. In addition, we may lose business to competitors that may be able to offer products at lower costs. Some competitors may be able to transfer the manufacturing of their products to lower wage locations resulting in lower production costs which may be passed through to customers. Increased competition may exert strong pressures on our profitability and impair our ability to successfully grow. 11 Table of Contents Labor disputes and work stoppages at our unionized facilities could delay or impede our production, reduce sales of our products and increase costs. The costs of labor are generally increasing, including the costs of employee medical and benefit plans. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 25.0% of our employees were represented by unions, the majority of our which are located in our Orzinuovi, Italy facility. We cannot be certain that we will be able to negotiate new agreements or extensions with the unions on favorable terms when they expire. In particular, renewal of collective bargaining agreements typically involves negotiations, with the potential for work stoppages or increased costs at affected facilities. Instability in our union relationships could delay the production and/or development of our products, which could strain relationships with customers and cause a loss of revenues which would adversely affect our operations. We are subject to governmental regulations that may affect our ability to implement our business objectives. Every aircraft braking system, including those containing components supplied by us, must satisfy FAA criteria and testing requirements. If we fail to meet these requirements or any new or changed requirements, then our results of operations may be adversely affected or we may not be able to meet our business objectives. There can be no assurance that FAA review of an aircraft braking system containing components supplied by us will result in a favorable determination or that we or our customers will continue to meet FAA criteria and testing requirements, which are subject to change at the discretion of the FAA. Environmental and health and safety liabilities and requirements could require us to incur material costs. We are subject to various U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and worker health and safety, including those governing: • Discharges of pollutants into the air and water; • The management and disposal of hazardous substances; and • The cleanup of contaminated properties The nature of our operations exposes us to the risk of liabilities or claims with respect to environmental matters, including on-site and off-site disposal matters. Future events could require us to make additional expenditures to modify or curtail our operations, install pollution control equipment or investigate and clean up contaminated sites, such as: • the discovery of new information concerning past releases of hazardous substances; • the discovery or occurrence of compliance problems relating to our operations; and • changes in existing environmental laws or their interpretation. We are also subject to the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act and similar foreign and state laws. The nature of our operations, the extensive uses of our existing and former facilities, and the operations of prior owners and operators expose us to the risk of liabilities or claims concerning environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. We are not aware of any instance in which we have contravened federal, state, or local provisions enacted for or relating to protection of the environment or in which we otherwise may be subject under environmental laws to liability for environmental conditions that could materially affect operations. We are dependent upon the availability of raw materials, and we may not be able to receive favorable prices for, or continued supplies of, raw materials, which may affect our ability to obtain enough supplies to conduct our business. We require substantial amounts of raw materials, including copper powders, steel and custom-fabricated cellulose sheet. Substantially all of the raw materials we require are purchased from third party suppliers and are generally in adequate supply. However, the availability and costs of raw materials may be subject to change due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, suppliers’ allocation to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers and changes in exchange rates and worldwide price and demand levels. Our inability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials for our products at favorable prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results or operations by decreasing our profit margins and by hindering our ability to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. 12 Table of Contents Recently, we have experienced an increase in our lead times related to deliveries of certain grades of steel because many mills continue to ration their capacity levels. We have taken actions to address these market dynamics such as dual-sourcing the supply of our key raw materials. Although alternate sources generally exist for most of our key raw materials, qualification of these sources could take a year or more. The loss of a significant supplier or the inability of a supplier to meet our performance and quality specifications or delivery schedules could affect our ability to complete our contractual obligations to our customers on a satisfactory, timely or profitable basis. These events may adversely affect our operating results or damage our reputation and relationships with our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with international operations. We conduct business outside the United States which subjects us to the risks inherent in international operations. Our net sales from our international manufacturing facilities represented $46.9 million, or 27.2% of our consolidated net sales, for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $112.2 million, or 41.6% of our consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. Risks inherent in international operations include the following: • foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including exchange controls; • fluctuations in international currency exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of products and services provided by us in foreign markets where payment for our products is made in local currency; • unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements may occur; • there are difficulties inherent in the management and operation of an enterprise spread over various countries; • there are complexities associated with the necessity of using non-U.S. representatives and consultants; • there may be uncertainty in the ability of non-U.S. customers to finance purchases; • compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad may be difficult; and • the overlap of different tax laws may subject us to additional taxes. While the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our operations in the future. We are dependent on a small number of customers for a large portion of our sales. In 2009, our top five customers made up approximately 44.5% of our total net sales. Our largest customer, Caterpillar, accounted for approximately 17.3% of our total net sales in 2009. While we sell multiple product applications to each of our top five customers, the loss of any of those customers or significant changes in prices or other terms with any of those customers could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. Additionally, business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns and other similar factors that affect our customers may adversely impact our business and financial position. 13 Table of Contents We depend on our senior management team and other skilled and experienced personnel to operate our business effectively, and the loss of any of these individuals could adversely impact our business and our future financial conditions or results of operations. Our performance depends on our ability to retain and motivate our executive officers and key employees. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key employees could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and prospects. We have employment agreements with Ronald E. Weinberg, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, B. Christopher Disantis, President and Chief Operating Officer and Joseph J. Levanduski, Senior Vice President — Director of Corporate Development. Hawk maintains a “key person” life insurance policy on the life of Mr. Weinberg in the face amount of $1.0 million. We are also dependent on the skills and experience of other skilled and experienced personnel. These individuals possess sales, marketing, manufacturing, logistical, financial, business strategy and administrative skills that are important to the operation of our business. The loss of any of these individuals or an inability to attract, retain and maintain additional personnel could prevent us from implementing our business strategy and could adversely impact our business and our future financial condition or results of operations. We cannot assure that we will be able to retain all of our existing senior management team or to attract additional qualified personnel when needed. Our existing preferred shareholders have the ability to exert voting control with respect to the election of directors. Ronald E. Weinberg, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Norman C. Harbert, Chairman Emeritus and Founder, and Byron S. Krantz, Secretary and Director, beneficially own 45%, 45% and 10%, respectively, of the outstanding shares of our Series D preferred stock as well as 16%, 14% and 3%, respectively, of our Class A common stock and to vote as a separate class on fundamental corporate transactions. The holders of our Series D preferred stock are entitled to elect a majority of the members of our Board of Directors. Accordingly, if any two of these shareholders vote their shares of Series D preferred stock in the same manner, they will have sufficient voting power (without the consent of our holders of Class A common stock) to elect a majority of the Board of Directors and to thereby control and direct the policies of the Board of Directors and, in general, to determine the outcome of various matters submitted to the stockholders for approval, including fundamental corporate transactions. Significant changes in discount rates, actual investment return on pension assets and other factors could affect our earnings, equity and pension contributions in future periods. We have defined benefit pension plans for certain of our employees in the United States and Canada. Our earnings may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of income or expense we record for our pension benefit plans. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP) require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions relating to financial market and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can change these assumptions. The most significant year-end assumptions used to estimate pension income or expense for the following year are the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. In addition, we are required to make an annual measurement of plan assets and liabilities, which may result in a significant change to equity through a reduction or increase in Other comprehensive (loss) income. For a discussion of how our financial statements can be affected by pension plan accounting policies, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Results of Operations— Critical Accounting Policies — Pension Benefits.” Although GAAP expense and pension contributions are not directly related, the key economic factors that affect GAAP expense would also likely affect the amount of cash we would contribute to the pension plans. Potential pension contributions include both mandatory amounts required under federal law and discretionary contributions to improve the plans’ funded status. Business disruptions could seriously affect our future sales and financial condition or increase our costs and expenses. Our business may be impacted by disruptions including, but not limited to, threats to physical security, information technology attacks or failures, damaging weather or other acts of nature and pandemics or other public health crises. Any of these disruptions would affect our internal operations or the ability to provide products to our customers, and could impact our sales, increase our expenses or adversely affect our reputation or our stock price. 14 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 