Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider these risk factors in addition to our financial statements and notes to such financial statements. In addition to the following risks, there may also be risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial that may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. We are highly dependent on our revenues from AlloDerm. If we are unable to maintain or increase our AlloDerm revenues, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, revenues from the distribution of AlloDerm represented approximately 79%, 72% and 61%, respectively, of our total revenues. Surgeons will not use our products unless they determine that the clinical benefits to the patient are greater than those available from competing products or therapies. Even if the advantage of our products is established as clinically significant, surgeons may not elect to use such products for any number of reasons. Consequently, surgeons, health care payers and patients may not accept our current products or products under development. Broad market acceptance of our products may require the training of numerous surgeons and clinicians, as well as conducting or sponsoring clinical studies to demonstrate the benefits of such products. The amount of time required to complete such training and studies could result in a delay or dampening of such market acceptance. If we are unable to maintain or increase our revenues from the distribution of AlloDerm products, our financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, if we were unable to replace such revenue from existing or new products, the market price of our stock could be negatively affected. Government regulations could adversely affect the marketing of our current products and the development and commercialization of products currently being developed by us. We have not obtained prior FDA clearance or approval for commercial distribution of certain of our human tissue-based products, because we believe that these products qualify for regulation as HCT/Ps. We began marketing one of our products, AlloCraft DBM as an HCT/P, but the FDA ruled that it is a medical device requiring 510(k) clearance, which was obtained in December 2005. We cannot assure you that the other tissue-based products that we are currently marketing, or that we may develop in the future, will be regulated as HCT/Ps. The regulation of each of our products is decided by the FDA on a case-by-case basis and the agency’s position is subject to change. Although the FDA has agreed that some of our products qualify as HCT/Ps, that determination is limited to their current intended uses. In the future, we may wish to market our existing products for new intended uses. They may be regulated as medical devices based on these new uses, requiring premarket clearance or approval and adherence to the FDA’s medical device regulations. If the FDA chooses to regulate any of our current or future products as a medical device, the process of obtaining FDA clearance or approval would be expensive, lengthy and unpredictable. While the FDA can exercise its enforcement discretion to permit companies to continue marketing a product pending clearance or approval, the agency can choose to prohibit continued sales until a product is cleared or approved. We anticipate that it could take from one to three years or longer to obtain such clearance or approval and during such period, our revenue could be materially reduced. We do not know if such clearance or approval could be obtained in a timely fashion, or at all. Such clearance or approval process would almost certainly include a requirement to provide extensive supporting clinical testing data. In addition, the FDA requires that medical devices be produced in accordance with the Quality System Regulation for medical devices. As a result, our manufacturing and compliance costs would increase, and any such device products would be subject to more comprehensive development, testing, monitoring and validation standards. As a result, compliance with such standards could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents A few, but increasing number of states including Florida, California, New York and Maryland, impose their own regulatory requirements on transplanted human tissue. We believe that we are in compliance with such regulations. There can be no assurance that the various states in which our products are sold will find that we are in compliance or will not impose additional regulatory requirements or marketing impediments on our products. Additionally, any disruption in our ability to market our current products, would materially and adversely affect our revenues and cash flows. The FDA can impose civil and criminal sanctions and other penalties on us if we fail to comply with the stringent FDA regulations applicable to our tissue facilities. Tissue establishments must engage in: • donor screening and infectious disease testing; • Good Tissue Practice; • stringent record keeping; and • establishment registration and product listing. As a result, our involvement in the processing and distribution of human tissue for transplantation requires us to ensure that proper donor screening and infectious disease testing are done appropriately and conducted under strict procedures. In addition, we must maintain records, which are available for FDA inspectors documenting that the procedures were followed. The FDA has authority to conduct inspections of tissue establishments and to detain, recall or destroy tissue or order the cessation of manufacturing if the procedures were not followed or appropriate documentation is not available. Labeling and promotional activities are also subject to scrutiny by the FDA and, in certain instances, by the Federal Trade Commission. From time to time, the FDA may modify such requirements, imposing additional or different requirements, which may require us to alter our business methods. Failure to comply with any applicable FDA requirements could result in civil and criminal enforcement actions and other fines and penalties that could increase our expenses and materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. The National Organ Transplant Act (“NOTA”) could be interpreted in a way that could reduce our revenues and income in the future. Procurement of certain human organs and tissue for transplantation is subject to the restrictions of NOTA, which prohibits the acquisition of certain human organs, including skin and related tissue for valuable consideration, but permits the reasonable payment of costs associated with the removal, transportation, implantation, processing, preservation, quality control and storage of human tissue, including skin. We reimburse tissue banks for expenses incurred that are associated with the recovery and transportation of donated cadaveric human skin that we process and distribute. In addition to amounts paid to tissue banks to reimburse them for their expenses associated with the procurement and transportation of human skin, we include in our pricing structure certain costs associated with: • tissue processing; • tissue preservation; • quality control and storage of the tissue; and • marketing and medical education expenses. NOTA payment allowances may be interpreted to limit the amount of costs and expenses that we may recover in our pricing for our products, thereby negatively impacting our future revenues and profitability. If we are found to have violated NOTA’s prohibition on the sale of human tissue, we also are potentially subject to criminal enforcement sanctions which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our products contain donated human cadaveric tissue and therefore have the potential for disease transmission. The implantation of donated cadaveric human tissue products creates the potential for transmission of communicable disease. Although we comply with Federal and state regulations and voluntary AATB guidelines intended to prevent communicable disease transmission, and our tissue suppliers are also required to comply with such regulations, there can be no assurance that: • our tissue suppliers will comply with such regulations intended to prevent communicable disease transmission; • even if such compliance is achieved, that our products have not been or will not be associated with transmission of disease; or • a patient otherwise infected with disease would not erroneously assert a claim that the use of our products resulted in disease transmission. In September 2005, we recalled products containing human cadaveric tissue because the tissue bank that recovered the tissue, BTS, did not follow FDA requirements for donor screening to determine whether risk factors for communicable disease existed. We promptly notified the FDA and all relevant hospitals and medical profesionals who received products produced from tissue received from BTS. Upon subsequent investigation, the FDA determined that patients who received tissue implants prepared from BTS donors may be at heightened risk of communicable disease transmission and recommended that patient recipients receive appropriate infectious disease testing. We have not received any donor tissue from BTS or distributed any products produced from BTS tissue since the product recall was initiated. In January 2006, the FDA ordered BTS to cease its tissue operations. Any actual or alleged transmission of communicable disease could could result in patient claims, litigation, distraction of management’s attention and potentially increased expenses. As a result, such actions or claims could have a material adverse effect on our reputation with our customers and our ability to market our products, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to product liability claims for which our product liability insurance may be inadequate. Our business exposes us to product liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of medical products. We are currently named as defendants in seven lawsuits that are related to the distribution of our products. Although we intend to to vigorously defend against thess actions, there can be no assurance that we will prevail. We maintain product liability insurance, however, we cannot be certain that: • the level of our insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities; • the type of claim will be covered by the terms of the insurance coverage; • adequate product liability insurance will continue to be available in the future; or • our insurance can be maintained on acceptable terms. The legal expenses associated with defending against product liability claims and the obligation to pay a product liability claim in excess of available insurance coverage would increase our operating expenses and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. 16 Table of Contents We depend heavily upon a limited number of sources of human cadaveric tissue, and any interruption in the availability of human tissue would interfere with our ability to process and market our products. Our business is dependent on the availability of donated human cadaveric tissue. We currently receive human tissue from approximately 40 United States tissue banks and organ procurement organizations. Over the past few years, demand for our products has increased substantially and our requirements for donor tissue have also increased substantially. Although we have met the demand and have established what we believe to be adequate sources of donated human tissue to satisfy the expected demand for our human tissue products in the foreseeable future, we cannot be sure that donated human cadaveric tissue will continue to be available at current levels or will be sufficient to meet our future needs. If our current sources can no longer supply human cadaveric tissue or our requirements for human cadaveric tissue exceed their current capacity, we may not be able to locate other sources on a timely basis, or at all. Any significant interruption in the availability of human cadaveric tissue would likely cause us to slow down the processing and distribution of our human tissue products, which could adversely affect our ability to supply the needs of our customers and materially and adversely affect our results of operations results and our relationships with our customers. Negative publicity concerning the use of donated human tissue in medical procedures could reduce the demand for our products and negatively impact the supply of available donor tissue. There has recently been negative publicity concerning the use and method of obtaining donated human tissue that is used in medical procedures. This type of negative publicity could reduce the demand for our products or negatively impact the willingness of families of potential donors to agree to donate tissue, or tissue banks to provide tissue to us. In such event, we might not be able to obtain adequate tissue to meet the needs of our customers. As a result, our results of operations results and our relationships with our customers could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in third-party payer reimbursement practices regarding the procedures performed with our products could adversely affect the market acceptance of our products and materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Generally, hospitals, surgeons and other health care providers purchase products, such as the products being sold or developed by us, for use in providing care to their patients. These parties typically rely on third-party payers, including Medicare, Medicaid, private health insurance, and managed care plans to reimburse all or part of the costs of acquiring those products and costs associated with the medical procedures performed with those products. Third-party payers have adopted cost control measures in recent years that have had and may continue to have a significant effect on the purchasing practices of many health care providers, generally causing them to be more selective in the purchase of medical products. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. We believe that certain third-party payers provide reimbursement for medical procedures at a specified rate without additional reimbursement for products, such as those being sold or developed by us, used in such procedures. Adequate third-party payer reimbursement may not be available for us to maintain price levels sufficient for realization of an appropriate return on our investment in developing new products. The FDA generally permits human tissue for transplantation to be commercially distributed without obtaining prior FDA approval of the product. In contrast, products regulated as medical devices or biologics usually require such approval. Certain government and other third-party payers refuse, in some cases, to provide any coverage for uses of products for indications for which the FDA has not granted marketing approval. Further, certain of our products are used in medical procedures that typically are not covered by third-party payers or for which patients sometimes do not obtain coverage. These and future changes in third-party payer reimbursement practices regarding the procedures performed with our products could adversely affect the market acceptance of our products and therefore also materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We are highly dependent upon independent sales and marketing agents and distributors to generate our revenues. Our independent sales and marketing agents and distributors generated 20% of our total product revenue in the year ended December 31, 2005. Boston Scientific Corporation, our exclusive worldwide sales and marketing agent for Repliform represented 8% of our total product revenues in 2005. Wright Medical, our exclusive distributor for GraftJacket represented 7% of our total product revenues in 2005. No other individual independent sales agent or distributor generated more than 5% of our total product revenues in the year ended December 31, 2005. If any of our independent sales and marketing agents or distributors fails to adequately market our products, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected until a replacement agent or distributor could be retained by us. Finding replacement agents and distributors could be a time-consuming process and we may not be able to find replacement agents and distributors on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to find replacement agents and distributors, our revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The Biomedical field is highly competitive and such competition could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. The biomedical field is undergoing rapid and significant technological change. Our success depends upon our ability to develop and commercialize effective products that meet medical needs. Our Alloderm, Repliform and GraftJacket tissue products compete with synthetic products marketed by large medical device companies such as Johnson & Johnson, C.R. Bard, W.L. Gore & Associates and Integra Life Sciences Holdings Corporation. They also compete with animal-derived products marketed by companies such as Cook, Inc. and Tissue Science Laboratories, plc. Our AlloCraft DBM product competes with other similar bone repair products produced by companies such as Regeneration Technologies, Inc.; Osteotech, Inc.; AlloSource; Wright Medical; Isotis Orthobiologics; and the Musculoskeletal Transplant Foundation. We believe that there are many companies, academic institutions, tissue banks, organ procurement organizations and tissue processors, including those identified above, that are capable of developing products which may be competitive with our current products. Additionally, many of these organizations are well-established and may have substantially greater financial and other resources, research and development capabilities and more experience in conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing than we do and accordingly may succeed in developing competing products which may render our products or technology uncompetitive, uneconomical or obsolete. Recently, two tissue processors, MTF and Tutogen, have announced plans to commence distribution of human tissue based soft tissue repair products intended to compete with AlloDerm. MTF plans to distribute its products through Synthes, Inc and Tutogen plans to distribute its products through C.R. Bard. Our success depends on the scope of our intellectual property rights and not infringing the intellectual property rights of others. The validity, enforceability and commercial value of these rights are highly uncertain. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies is materially dependent upon the proprietary nature of our technologies. We rely primarily on patents and trade secrets to protect our technologies. Third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate, circumvent or render unenforceable any patents or proprietary rights owned by or licensed to us based on, among other things: • subsequently discovered prior art; • lack of entitlement to the priority of an earlier related application; or • failure to comply with the written description, best mode, enablement or other applicable requirements. 18 Table of Contents In general, the patent position of biotechnology and medical product firms is highly uncertain, still evolving and involves complex legal, scientific and factual questions. We are at risk that: • patents may be granted to others that preclude granting patents on patent applications filed by us; and • any patents issued or licensed to us may not provide commercial benefit to us or will be infringed, invalidated or circumvented by others. The United States Patent and Trademark Office currently has a significant backlog of patent applications, and the approval or rejection of patents may take several years. The contents of United States patent applications are generally published eighteen months after the initial filing date. Once published or issued, a United States patent application or patent would constitute prior art from its filing date, which might predate the filing date of one of our patent applications. Conceivably, the publication or issuance of such a prior art patent application or patent, or the discovery of “prior art” of which we are currently unaware, could invalidate a patent of ours or our licensor or discourage commercialization of a product claimed within such patent. We generally conduct a cursory review of issued patents prior to engaging in research or development activities. If others already have issued patents covering new products that we develop, we may be required to obtain a license from them to commercialize such new products. There can be no assurance that any necessary license could be obtained on favorable terms or at all. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to resort to litigation to protect our patented technologies or other proprietary rights or that we will not be the subject of additional patent litigation to defend our existing or proposed products or processes against claims of patent infringement or other intellectual property claims. Any of such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our financial and management resources. We also have applied for patent protection in several foreign countries. Because of the differences in patent laws and laws concerning proprietary rights, the extent of protection provided by United States patents or proprietary rights owned by or licensed to us may differ from that of their foreign counterparts. We may decide for business reasons to retain certain knowledge that we consider proprietary as confidential and elect to protect such information as a trade secret, as business confidential information or as know-how. In that event, we must rely upon trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation to maintain our competitive position. There can be no assurance that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or otherwise gain access to or disclose such information. The United States government’s rights to use technology developed by us with government grant funds could limit our intellectual property rights. Certain of our research and development activities are funded through grants from the United States government. Generally, we have the right to patent any technologies developed from government grants and contract funding, subject to the United States government’s right to receive a royalty-free license for federal government use and to require licensing to others in certain circumstances. We are free to commercially exploit those government funded technologies and may assert our intellectual property rights to seek to block other non-government users thereof, but we cannot assure you that we can successfully do so. Increasing our revenues and maintaining profitability may depend on our ability to develop and commercialize new products. Product development is subject to risks and uncertainties. We may be required to undertake time-consuming and costly development activities and seek regulatory clearance or approval for new products. Although we have conducted preclinical studies on many of our products under development that indicate that the product may be feasible for a particular application, results obtained from expanded studies may not be consistent with earlier results, or be sufficient for us to obtain any required regulatory approvals or clearances. The completion of the development of any of our products under development remains subject to all the risks associated with the commercialization of new products based on innovative technologies, including: 19 Table of Contents • unanticipated technical problems; • obtaining regulatory approval of such products, if required • manufacturing difficulties; and • the possibility of significantly higher development costs than anticipated. Moreover, health care payers' approval of reimbursement for new products in development may be an important factor in establishing market acceptance. If we are unable to successfully devlop and commercialize new products, our future revenues and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. We may need additional capital to develop and commercialize new products or to acquire complementary products or businesses, and it is uncertain whether such capital will be available. We intend to expend funds for our ongoing research and product development activities. We may need additional capital, depending on: • the number and types of research and product development programs undertaken; and • the progress of our research and product development efforts and the associated costs relating to obtaining regulatory approvals, if any, that may be needed to commercialize some of our products currently under development. We believe that our current cash resources, together with anticipated cash from ongoing operating activities, committed research grant funding and remaining availability under our credit facility, will be sufficient to fund our planned operations, research and development programs and fixed asset additions in the foreseeable future. However, we may determine that we require additional funds to meet our long term objectives, including to complete potential acquisitions and there can be no assurance that our financial sources will be sufficient and, as a result, we may need additional funding. We have no commitments for any future funding, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing in the future from either debt or equity financings, collaborative arrangements or other sources on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve significant restrictive covenants. Collaborative arrangements, if necessary to raise additional funds, may require us to relinquish our rights to certain of our technologies, products or marketing territories. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 under Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements include statements with respect to our beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, expectations, anticipations, assumptions, estimates, intentions, and future performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may be beyond our control, and which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be forward-looking statements. You can identify these forward-looking statements through our use of words such as “may,” “will,” “can” “anticipate,” “assume,” “should,” “indicate,” “would,” “believe,” “contemplate,” “expect,” “seek,” “estimate,” “continue,” “plan,” “point to,” “project,” “predict,” “could,” “intend,” “target,” “potential,” and other similar words and expressions of the future. 20 Table of Contents Forward-looking statements may not be realized due to a variety of factors, including, without limitation: • the failure to maintain or increase revenues from the sale of our AlloDerm products; • the failure to comply with government regulations, including the FDA; • claims for damages by third-parties, including product liability claims; • our dependence on a limited number of sources for human cadaveric tissue; • negative publicity about the use of donated human tissue in medical procedures; • our ability to increase market penetration of our current products and to develop and commercialize new products; • changes in third party reimbursement practices; • the failure of third party sales representatives and distributors to adequately promote, market and sell our products; • our inability to protect our intellectual property; • the effects of competition; and • the other factors listed under “Risk Factors” in this annual report on Form 10-K. All forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary notice. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this prospectus or the date of the document incorporated by reference into this prospectus. We have no obligation, and expressly disclaim any obligation, to update, revise or correct any of the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. We have expressed our expectations, beliefs and projections in good faith and we believe they have a reasonable basis. However, we cannot assure you that our expectations, beliefs or projections will result or be achieved or accomplished. Supervision and Regulation — Securities and Exchange Commission We maintain a website at www.lifecell.com. We make available free of charge on our website all electronic filings with the SEC (including proxy statements and reports on Forms 8-K, 10-K and 10-Q and any amendments to these reports) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. We have also posted policies, codes and procedures that outline our corporate governance principles, including the charters of the board’s audit and nominating committees, and oure of Ethics covering directors and all employees and the Code of Ethics for senior financial officers on our website. These materials also are available free of charge in print to shareholders who request them in writing. The information contained on our website does not constitute a part of this report. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comment Letters None. 21 Table of Contents Item 