ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our proposed Merger with ANSYS may not be consummated or may be delayed, which may adversely affect our anticipated results of operations and financial condition, or both. 8 Table of Contents On March 31, 2008, we announced that we had signed a Merger Agreement with ANSYS pursuant to which ANSYS would acquire Ansoft. The completion of the Merger is subject to various customary closing conditions, including, among other things, obtaining the approval of Ansoft’s stockholders. There can be no assurance that all of these conditions will be satisfied. If these conditions are not satisfied or waived, we may be unable to complete the Merger. Subject to the terms of the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Merger, each issued and outstanding share of Ansoft common stock will be converted into the right to receive (i) cash, without interest, in an amount equal to $16.25 per share, and (ii) 0.431882 of a share of ANSYS common stock. The value of ANSYS common stock might decline prior to the completion of the merger or at any time thereafter. Accordingly, if the price of ANSYS common stock declines prior to the completion of the merger, the value of the ANSYS common stock to be received by Ansoft stockholders in the merger will decrease. Moreover, as is typical with change of control transactions, management must address many challenges resulting from uncertainty regarding the completion of the Merger because stated conditions, many of which are outside of our control, must be met, including approval of the Merger by Ansoft’s stockholders. This uncertainty may cause customers and suppliers to delay or defer decisions concerning Ansoft, which could negatively affect our business. Customers and suppliers may also seek to change existing agreements with Ansoft as a result of the Merger. Any delay or deferral of those decisions or changes in existing agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, regardless of whether the Merger is ultimately completed. Additionally, Ansoft employees may experience uncertainty about their future role with the combined company. These employees may leave Ansoft prior to or after the closing of the Merger. This may adversely affect our performance and customer relationships. This uncertainty also may adversely affect the Company’s ability to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing, technical and other personnel, pending the closing of the Merger. If we do not succeed in addressing these challenges or any other problems encountered in connection with the Merger, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. If the proposed Merger with ANSYS is not completed, the resulting public announcement of the termination of the Merger Agreement could have a significant negative adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The market price could be affected by many factors, including: • the reason or reasons for which the Merger Agreement was terminated and whether such termination resulted from factors adversely affecting us; • the possibility that, as a result of the termination of the Merger Agreement, the marketplace would consider us to be an unattractive acquisition candidate; • the possible sale of shares of our common stock by short-term investors following an announcement of termination of the Merger Agreement; and • the fact that the current market price of our common stock may reflect a market assumption as to whether the Merger will occur. Additionally, the management team would have been distracted from running the business and the Company will incur significant costs related to the Merger, such as legal, accounting and some of the fees and expenses of their financial advisors, some of which costs must be paid even if the Merger is not completed. Although the Company and ANSYS intend that the Merger will result in benefits to the combined company, those benefits may not be realized. The integration of the companies will be a complex, time consuming and expensive process and may disrupt the companies’ businesses. Failure to realize the expected benefits and/or disruption to the Company’s business could materially harm the business and operating results of the combined company. 9 Table of Contents Our Future Operating Results Are Uncertain. There can be no assurance that Ansoft’s revenue and net income will grow or be sustained in future periods or that Ansoft will be profitable in any future period. Future operating results will depend on many factors, including the degree and the rate of growth of the markets in which Ansoft competes and the accompanying demand for Ansoft’s products, the level of product and price competition, the ability of Ansoft to develop and market new or enhanced products and to control costs, the ability of Ansoft to expand its direct sales force and the ability of Ansoft to attract and retain key personnel. Our Quarterly Operating Results Are Difficult To Predict. We are unable to accurately forecast our future revenues primarily because of the emerging nature of the market in which we compete. Our revenues and operating results generally depend on the size, timing and structure of license agreements. These factors have historically been, and are likely to continue to be, difficult to forecast. In addition, our current and future expense levels are based largely on our operating plans and estimates of future revenues and are, to an extent, fixed. We may be unable to adjust spending sufficiently or quickly enough to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any significant shortfall in revenues in relation to our planned expenditures would seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such shortfalls in our revenue or operating results from levels expected by public market analysts and investors could seriously harm the trading price of our common stock. Additionally, we may not learn of such revenue shortfalls, earnings shortfalls or other failure to meet market expectations until late in a fiscal quarter, which could result in an even more immediate and serious harm to the trading price of our common stock. Our quarterly operating results have varied, and it is anticipated that our quarterly operating results will vary substantially from period to period depending on various factors, many of which are outside our control. Due to the foregoing factors, we cannot predict with any significant degree of certainty our quarterly revenue and operating results. Further, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future performance. Our Stock Price Is Volatile. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past, and the trading price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to such factors as: • Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • Announcements of technological innovations and new or enhanced products by us or our competitors; • New contractual relationships with strategic partners by us or our competitors; • Proposed acquisitions by us or our competitors; and • Financial results that fail to meet public market analyst expectations of performance. In addition, the stock market in general, the NASDAQ National Market and the market for technology companies in particular has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock in future periods. We May Lose Competitive Advantages If Our Proprietary Rights Are Inadequately Protected. 10 Table of Contents Ansoft’s success depends, in part, upon its proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks and contractual commitments to protect our proprietary rights in our software products. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, distributors and customers, and limit access to and distribution of our software, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, a third party may still copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization, or develop similar technology independently. In addition, effective patent, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. It is possible that we may fail to adequately protect our proprietary rights. This would seriously harm Ansoft’s business, operating results and financial condition. We May Be Unable To Attract And Retain The Key Management And Technical Personnel That We Need To Succeed. Ansoft’s future operating results depend in large part upon the continued services of its key technical and management personnel. Ansoft does not have employment contracts with any executive officer. Ansoft’s future success will also depend in large part on its ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled technical, marketing and management personnel. The competition for such personnel, as well as for qualified EDA engineers, is intense. If Ansoft is unable to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel in the future, the development of new or enhanced products and the management of Ansoft’s increasingly complex business would be impaired. This could seriously harm Ansoft’s business, operating results and financial condition. We Depend On International Sales for a Significant Percentage Of Our Revenue. International revenue, principally from Asian customers, accounted for approximately 64% and 61% of our total revenue in the years ended April 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We expect that international license and service revenue will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. Our international business activities are subject to a variety of potential risks, including: • The impact of recessionary environments in foreign economies; • Longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; • Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • Political and economic instability; • Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • Reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; and • Tariffs and other trade barriers and import/export regulations. Currency exchange fluctuations in countries in which we license our products could also seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the laws of certain countries do not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent, as do the laws of the United States. Moreover, it is possible that we may fail to sustain or increase revenue derived from international licensing and service or that the foregoing factors will seriously harm our future international license and service revenue, and, consequently, seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Need To Successfully Manage Our Expanding Operations. 11 Table of Contents Revenues have grown from $8.7 million in fiscal 1996 to $103.4 million in fiscal year 2008, and the number of employees has grown from 69 in April 1996 to 314 as of April 30, 2008. Ansoft’s ability to manage growth effectively will require it to continue to improve its operational and financial systems, hire and train new employees and add additional space, both domestically and internationally. Ansoft may not be successful in addressing such risks, and the failure to do so would seriously harm Ansoft’s business, financial condition and results of operations. We Depend On The Growth Of The Communications, Semiconductor And Electronics Industries. Ansoft is dependent upon the communications and semiconductor industry and, more generally, the electronics industry. These industries are characterized by rapid technological change, short product life cycles, fluctuations in manufacturing capacity and pricing and gross margin pressures. Segments of these industries have from time to time experienced significant economic downturns characterized by decreased product demand, production over-capacity, price erosion, work slowdowns and layoffs. Any significant downturn could be especially severe on Ansoft. During such downturns, the number of new integrated circuit design projects often decreases. Since acquisitions of new licenses from Ansoft are largely dependent upon the commencement of new design projects, any slowdown in these industries could seriously harm Ansoft’s business, financial condition and results of operations. We Are Controlled By Our Principal Stockholders And Management Which May Limit Your Ability To Influence Stockholder Matters. Our executive officers, who are also principal stockholders, own approximately 13% of the outstanding shares of Ansoft common stock. As a result, they have the ability to effectively control us and direct our affairs, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership also may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders. The interests of these stockholders may conflict with those of other stockholders. Anti-Takeover Provisions in Ansoft’s Certificate Of Incorporation, Bylaws, And Under Delaware Law Could Prevent An Acquisition. We have adopted a number of provisions that could have anti-takeover effects. The Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock without any further vote or action by Ansoft’s stockholders. This and other provisions of Ansoft’s Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and Delaware Law may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in control or management, including transactions in which the stockholders of Ansoft might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 