Item 1A. Risk Factors.The following are some of the potential risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider these factors, as well as the other information contained in this document, when evaluating your investment in our securities. The following list of important factors is not all-inclusive.We are dependent upon certain key supply chain and distribution agreements. We have significant arrangements with a small number of technology suppliers. If we experience disruptions in our supply chain with these manufacturers for any reason or lose our distribution rights, we may not be able to fulfill client commitments with an acceptable alternative or we may not be able to obtain alternative solutions at similar costs.We are dependent upon the demand for our products and services. We and our competitors in the industry are dependent on the demand for the products and services that we deliver. Changes in technology or other unforeseen developments within our industry could result in decreased demand for our products and services. We cannot guarantee that historical levels of demand will continue or increase in the future.4Table of Contents We face intense competition. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our competitors, who include our technology suppliers and certain clients, may be able to deliver products and services at better prices or more quickly due to factors beyond our control. New competitors may also emerge in the future, which may threaten our ability to sustain or grow our market share. We cannot guarantee that we can continue to compete effectively in the future and still be able to sustain our historical levels of profit margin.Our financial results are dependent on our economic environments. We, our clients or our vendors may experience economic hardships due to inflation or recession, changes in laws and regulations, business disruptions due to natural disasters, acts of terrorism or war or other factors that are beyond our control and that could negatively impact our financial condition or our ability to meet our future financial goals.Our revenue is dependent upon repeat client business and generally is not subject to long-term contracts. A majority of our revenue is generated through individual sales of products and services and less than twenty-five percent (25%) of our revenue is generated from long-term maintenance contracts. We depend on repeat client business as well as our ability to develop new client business to sustain and grow our revenue. Although our focus on delivering high-quality sales and service has proven to be successful in the past, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to grow or even sustain our current level of revenue in the future.We are dependent upon the successful integration of acquired businesses. We have completed several acquisitions in recent years. Our future financial results are dependent on the successful integration of those acquisitions within the projected timeframes and cost parameters. We also face pressure to adequately conduct our ongoing operations while working toward the integration of these businesses. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully integrate our acquisitions as projected or without disruption to other areas of our business which could have a negative impact on our financial results.We are dependent upon the retention of our key personnel. The success of our business depends on our ability to attract and retain quality employees, executives and directors. We offer comprehensive salary and benefit packages including long-term incentives as a means of attracting and retaining personnel. We face pressure to maintain our profit margins and remain competitive in our industry while we compete for personnel in our local markets with a variety of different businesses that may be able to offer more attractive incentives due to their individual financial situations. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to attract and retain personnel with our current incentives and at costs that are consistent with our projected profit margins.We are dependent upon future mergers and acquisitions for a portion of our growth. A key component of our growth strategy is through strategic mergers and acquisitions. We may not continue to be successful in our search for potential acquisition candidates that are acceptable for our business model, or we may not be successful in our attempts to acquire new businesses that we have identified as attractive acquisition candidates. We cannot guarantee that we will meet our projected growth targets in the future if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to acquire additional businesses.Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our business data, communications, order entry and fulfillment and other business processes. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, power outages, systems failures, security breaches and viruses. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant part of our business involves public sector clients which provides unique risks. Approximately 25% of our revenues is derived from sales to agencies and departments of federal, state and local governments. Legislatures typically appropriate funds for a given program annually. These appropriations may be influenced by, among other things, the state of the economy, competing priorities for appropriation, changes in administration or control of legislatures, the timing and amount of tax receipts and the overall level of government expenditures. A decrease in appropriations for certain programs could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our revenues from sales to these public sector clients are made through various direct contracts, through reseller agreements with government contractors and through open market sales. Government contracting is a highly-regulated area. Failure to comply with the technical requirements of regulations or contracts could subject us to fines, penalties, suspension or debarment from doing business with such clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.5Table of Contents We can provide no assurance that we will continue to have adequate liquidity. Although we generate positive cash flow and have access to a significant amount of additional credit, we cannot be certain that our current liquidity situation will be adequate in future periods. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain our positive cash flow position or to obtain additional credit or raise additional capital which may restrict our ability to operate or to pursue new business opportunities in the future.We are subject to the risks of international operations. We operate in countries outside of the United States. Our operations or our financial condition may be negatively affected by events surrounding our international operations such as changes in laws and regulations, political or economic instability, currency fluctuations, supply chain disruptions, acts of terrorism, natural disasters or other political, economic or environmental factors. We cannot rely on the past results of our international operations as an indicator of future results or assure you that we will not be adversely affected by those factors inherent with international operations.Our stock price fluctuates. Our stock price is affected by a number of factors, including quarterly variations in our financial results. As a result, our stock price is subject to volatility.We have a significant amount of goodwill and could accumulate additional goodwill that could be subject to impairment. As a result of our past acquisition program and given the service nature of our business, we have accumulated goodwill. Part of our current growth strategy is to acquire strategic companies in high growth markets and given the service nature of those future acquisitions, we will accumulate additional goodwill. We conduct an impairment assessment of the carrying value of our goodwill at least annually and we monitor market conditions to determine if any additional interim review of goodwill is warranted. Deterioration in the market or actual results as compared with our projections or any reorganization of our business segments or under performance of future acquisitions could ultimately result in a future impairment. In the event that we determine that our goodwill is impaired in the future, we would need to recognize a non-cash impairment charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated balance sheet and results of operations. The information set forth under the caption “Goodwill” in “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference in order to supplement this information. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.