Item 1A. Risk Factors. EMPLOYEES We have approximately 115 employees, including 45 in research and development, 25 in manufacturing, 29 in marketing and sales, and 16 in administration. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement, nor have we ever experienced any work stoppage. None of our non-executive employees currently have employment contracts or post-employment non-competition agreements. We believe that our employee relations are good. FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for certain financial information concerning geographic area information. AVAILABLE INFORMATION We make available financial information, news releases and other information on our website at www.ramtron.com. Such reports are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports and amendments with or furnish them to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, our filings are available on the website of the SEC via the EDGAR database, where our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports are filed. In addition, such reports are also available free of cost by contacting Investor Relations, 1850 Ramtron Drive, Colorado Springs, Colorado 80921. Stockholders can also obtain such reports directly from the SEC at no charge at the SEC's website (www.sec.gov) or by visiting the SEC's Public Reference room in Washington, D.C. or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC- 0330. Page-17 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating To Our Business - ------------------------------ WE HAVE HAD LOSSES FROM OPERATIONS IN PRIOR YEARS AND OUR ACHIEVEMENT OF SUSTAINED PROFITABILITY IS UNCERTAIN. Our ability to continue to reflect a profit from ongoing operations in future periods is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, our ability to successfully sell our products at prices that are sufficient to cover our operating costs, to enter into additional technology development and license arrangements, to obtain sufficient contract manufacturing capacity and, if and as may be necessary, to raise additional financing to fund our growth. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in addressing these risks. We have spent substantial amounts of money in developing our products and in our efforts to obtain commercial manufacturing capabilities for those products. At December 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $217 million. Our ability to increase revenue and sustain profitability in the future will depend substantially on our ability to increase sales of our products by gaining new customers and increasing sales to our existing customers, reduce manufacturing costs, our ability to increase significantly sales of existing products, and our success in introducing and selling new products profitably. IF WE FAIL TO VIGOROUSLY PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION MAY SUFFER. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary technology used in our products. We protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and employee and third party non-disclosure and assignment agreements. We cannot provide assurances that any of our patent applications will be approved or that any of the patents that we own will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others or be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Policing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. In addition, we cannot be certain that we will be able to prevent other parties from designing and marketing semiconductor products or that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire the same or substantially equivalent technologies as ours. Page-18 We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims by others that result in costly litigation and could harm our business and ability to compete. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, as well as frequent claims and related litigation regarding these patents and other intellectual property rights. In particular, many leading semiconductor memory companies have extensive patent portfolios with respect to manufacturing processes, product designs, and semiconductor memory technology, including ferroelectric memory technology. We may be involved in litigation to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and know-how, to determine the validity of property rights of others, or to defend against claims of invalidity. This type of litigation can be expensive, regardless of whether we win or lose. Also, we cannot be certain that third parties will not make a claim of infringement against us or against our licensees in connection with their use of our technology. In the event of claims of infringement against our licensees with respect to our technology, we may be required to indemnify our licensees, which could be very costly. Any claims, even those without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. A successful claim of infringement against us or one of our semiconductor manufacturing licensees in connection with our use of our technology would harm our business and result in significant cash expense to us to cover litigation costs, as well as the reduction of future license revenue. EARTHQUAKES, OTHER NATURAL DISASTERS AND POWER SHORTAGES OR INTERRUPTIONS MAY DAMAGE OUR BUSINESS. Some of our contract manufacturers' facilities are located near major earthquake faults. If a major earthquake or other natural disaster occurs that damages those facilities or restricts their operations, or interrupts our and our suppliers' and customers' communications, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. A major earthquake or other natural disaster near one or more of our major suppliers could disrupt the operations of those suppliers, which could limit the supply of our products and harm our business. OUR FUTURE SUCCESS DEPENDS IN PART ON THE CONTINUED SERVICE OF A RELATIVELY SMALL NUMBER OF KEY DESIGN ENGINEERS, SALES, MARKETING AND EXECUTIVE PERSONNEL, AND IF WE WERE UNABLE TO ATTRACT ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL AS NEEDED OR RETAIN OUR KEY PERSONNEL, OUR BUSINESS WILL SUFFER. Our future success depends, among other factors, on the continued service of our key technical and management personnel and on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees. We are particularly dependent on the highly skilled design, process, materials and testing engineers involved in the development and oversight of the manufacture of our semiconductor products and processes. The competition for these personnel is intense, and the loss of key employees, including our executive officers, or our inability to attract additional qualified personnel in the future, could have both an immediate and a long-term adverse effect on us. Page-19 Risks Related to Our Products - ----------------------------- OUR PRODUCTS ARE COMPLEX AND MAY CONTAIN DEFECTS THAT COULD RESULT IN PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS, AN INCREASE IN OUR COSTS OR A REDUCTION IN OUR REVENUE. Our products are complex and may contain defects, particularly when first introduced or as new versions are released. We develop integrated semiconductor products containing functions in addition to memory, thereby increasing the overall complexity of our products. We rely primarily on our in-house testing personnel to design test operations and procedures to detect any defects prior to delivery of our products to our customers. Because our products are manufactured by third parties and involve long lead times, we may experience delays in meeting key introduction dates or scheduled delivery dates to our customers if problems occur in the operation or performance of our products. These defects also could cause us to incur significant re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our new product development efforts and cause significant customer relations issues and damage to our business reputation. Any defects could require product replacement or recall or we could be obligated to accept product returns. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur substantial costs and harm our business. Our products are typically sold at prices that are significantly lower than the cost of the end-products into which they are incorporated. A defect or failure in our product could cause failure in our customer's end-product, so we could face product liability claims for damages that are disproportionately higher than the revenue and profits we receive from the products involved. There can be no assurance that any insurance we maintain will sufficiently protect us from any such claims. WE DEPEND ON A SMALL NUMBER OF SUPPLIERS FOR THE SUPPLY OF OUR PRODUCTS AND THE SUCCESS OF OUR BUSINESS MAY BE DEPENDENT ON OUR ABILITY TO MAINTAIN AND EXPAND OUR RELATIONSHIPS WITH FOUNDRIES AND OTHER SUPPLIERS. We currently rely on foundry services from Fujitsu to manufacture our F-RAM products, and in March 2007, entered into an agreement with Texas Instruments to manufacture certain F-RAM products for us. In addition, we rely on a small number of other contract manufacturers and foundries to manufacture our other products. Reliance on limited foundries involves several risks, including capacity constraints or delays in the timely delivery of our products, reduced control over delivery schedules and the cost of our products, variations in manufacturing yields, dependence on the foundries for quality assurance, and the potential loss of production and a slow down in customer orders due to seismic activity, other force majeure events and other factors beyond our control. Although we continuously evaluate sources of supply and may seek to add additional foundry capacity, there can be no assurance that such additional capacity can be obtained at acceptable prices, if at all. We are also subject to the risks of service disruptions and raw material shortages affecting our foundry suppliers, which could also result in additional costs or charges to us. We also rely on domestic and international subcontractors for packaging and testing of products, and are subject to risks of disruption of these services and possible quality problems. The occurrence of any supply or other problem resulting from these risks could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. Page-20 We cannot provide any assurances that foundry or packaging and testing services will be available to us on terms and conditions, and at the times, acceptable to us. If we are unable to obtain foundry and packaging and testing services meeting our needs, we may be unable to produce products at the times and for the costs we anticipate and our financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. WE ARE A RELATIVELY SMALL COMPANY WITH LIMITED RESOURCES, COMPARED TO SOME OF OUR CURRENT AND POTENTIAL COMPETITORS, AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY AND INCREASE OUR MARKET SHARE. Our nonvolatile memory, microcontroller and integrated semiconductor products, which presently account for substantially all of our revenue, compete against products offered by current and potential competitors with longer operating histories, significantly greater financial and personnel resources, better name recognition and a larger base of customers than we have. In addition, many of our competitors have their own facilities for the production of semiconductor memory components or have recently added significant production capacity. As a result, these competitors may have greater credibility with our existing and potential customers. They also may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can to ours. In addition, some of our current and potential competitors have already established supplier or joint development relationships with the decision makers at our current or potential customers. These competitors may be able to leverage their existing relationships to discourage their customers from purchasing products from us or persuade them to replace our products with their products. These and other competitive pressures may prevent us from competing successfully against current or future competitors, and may materially harm our business. Competition could force us to decrease our prices, reduce our sales, lower our gross profits or decrease our market share. Some but not all of our competitors include companies such as ST Microelectronics, Renesas Technology Corporation, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., Microchip Technology Inc., NEC Corporation, Atmel Corporation, Fujitsu and NXP, as well as specialized product companies like Intersil Corporation, Catalyst Semiconductor, Inc., Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., and Integrated Silicon Solution Inc., which produce products that compete with our current products and may compete with our future products. EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES AND STANDARDS MAY POSE A THREAT TO THE COMPETITIVENESS OF OUR PRODUCTS. Competition affecting our F-RAM products may also come from alternative nonvolatile technologies such as magnetic random access memory or phase change memory, or other developing technologies. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to identify new product opportunities successfully, develop and bring to market new products, achieve design wins or respond effectively to new technological changes or product announcements by our competitors. In addition, we may not be successful in developing or using new technologies or in developing new products or product enhancements that achieve market acceptance. Our competitors or customers may offer new products based on new technologies, new industry standards or end-user or customer requirements, including products that have the potential to replace, or provide lower-cost or higher-performance alternatives to, our products. The introduction of new products by our competitors or customers could render our existing and future products obsolete or unmarketable. Page-21 A memory technology other than F-RAM nonvolatile memory technology may be adopted or become generally accepted in integrated semiconductor products, or in stand-alone memory products, and our competitors may be in a better financial and marketing position than we are to influence such adoption or acceptance. OUR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS ARE FOCUSED ON A LIMITED NUMBER OF NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND PRODUCTS, AND ANY DELAY IN THE DEVELOPMENT, OR THE ABANDONMENT, OF THESE TECHNOLOGIES OR PRODUCTS BY INDUSTRY PARTICIPANTS, OR THEIR FAILURE TO ACHIEVE MARKET ACCEPTANCE, COULD COMPROMISE OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION. Our F-RAM semiconductor memory, microcontroller and integrated semiconductor products are used as components in electronic devices in various markets. As a result, we have devoted and expect to continue to devote a large amount of resources to develop products based on new and emerging technologies and standards that will be commercially introduced in the future. Our research and development expense for the year ended December 31, 2007, was $10.8 million, or 21% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007. If we do not accurately anticipate new technologies and standards, or if the products that we develop based on new technologies and standards fail to achieve market acceptance, our competitors may be better able to satisfy market demand than we would. Furthermore, if markets for new technologies and standards develop later than we anticipate, or do not develop at all, demand for our products that are currently in development would suffer, resulting in lower sales of these products than we currently anticipate. We cannot be certain that any products we may develop for new standards will achieve market acceptance. IF WE DO NOT CONTINUALLY DEVELOP NEW PRODUCTS THAT ACHIEVE MARKET ACCEPTANCE, OUR REVENUE MAY DECLINE. We need to develop new products and new process and manufacturing technologies. We believe that our ability to compete in the markets in which we expect to sell our F-RAM based microcontroller and integrated semiconductor products will depend, in part, on our ability to produce products that address customer needs efficiently and in a cost-effective manner and also our ability to incorporate effectively other semiconductor functions with our F-RAM products. Our inability to successfully produce new generations of products would harm our ability to compete and have a negative impact on our operating results. If we fail to introduce new products in a timely manner or are unable to manufacture such products successfully, or if our customers do not successfully introduce new systems or products incorporating our products, or if market demand for our new products does not develop as anticipated, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Page-22 Risks Related to Our Sales - -------------------------- WE COMPETE IN CERTAIN MARKETS WITH SOME OF OUR F-RAM TECHNOLOGY LICENSEES, WHICH MAY REDUCE OUR PRODUCT SALES. We have licensed the right to fabricate products based on our F-RAM technology and memory architecture to certain independent semiconductor device manufacturers. Fujitsu and Texas Instruments, who we depend on for our F-RAM wafer supply, market certain F-RAM memory products that compete with certain of our F-RAM products. Some of our licensees have suspended or terminated their F-RAM initiatives, while others may still be pursuing a possible F-RAM based technology initiative or product development without our knowledge. We expect manufacturers that develop products based on our technology to sell such products worldwide. We are entitled to royalties from sales of F-RAM products by some but not all of these licensees, and we have the right under certain of our licensing agreements to negotiate an agreement for a fraction of the licensee's F-RAM product manufacturing capacity. Our licensees may, however, give the development and manufacture of their own F-RAM products a higher priority than ours. Any competition in the marketplace from F-RAM products manufactured and marketed by our licensees could reduce our product sales and harm our operating results. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO REPLACE OUR EXPECTED REVENUE FROM SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Our success is dependent upon continuing relationships with significant customers who, directly or indirectly, purchase significant quantities of our products. The reduction of product sales to our significant customers, without a corresponding increase in revenue from other customers or revenue from relationships developed with new customers, may result in significant decreases in our revenue, which would harm our cash flows, operating results and financial condition. We cannot assure you that we would be able to replace these relationships on a timely basis or at all. WE EXPECT THAT INTERNATIONAL SALES WILL CONTINUE TO REPRESENT A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR PRODUCT SALES IN THE FUTURE. AS A RESULT OF THE LARGE FOREIGN COMPONENT OF OUR REVENUE, WE ARE SUBJECT TO A NUMBER OF RISKS RESULTING FROM SUCH OPERATIONS. International sales comprise a significant portion of our product sales, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. Such risks include political and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, foreign currency fluctuations, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology, tariffs and other barriers and restrictions, and the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. There can be no assurance that such factors will not adversely impact our results of operations in the future or require us to modify our current business practices. Page-23 The majority of our revenue, expense and capital purchases are transacted in U.S. dollars. However, because a portion of our operations consists of activities outside of the United States, we conduct certain transactions in other currencies, namely the Japanese Yen and Canadian dollar. As part of our risk management strategy, we frequently evaluate our foreign currency exchange risk by monitoring market data and external factors that may influence exchange rate fluctuations. As a result, we may in the future engage in transactions involving the short-term hedging of our foreign currency exposure. Our business is also subject to risks generally associated with doing business with third-party manufacturers in non-U.S. jurisdictions including, but not limited to government regulations and political and financial unrest which may cause disruptions or delays in shipments to our customers or access to our inventories. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by these or other factors related to our international operations. WE ARE SUBJECT TO ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS THAT ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE AND MAY RESTRICT THE MARKETABILITY OF CERTAIN OF OUR PRODUCTS, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OR EXPOSE US TO FUTURE LIABILITIES. We are subject to laws and regulations relating to the use of and human exposure to hazardous materials. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to future liabilities or result in the limitation or suspension of the sale or production of product, including without limitation, products that do not meet the various regulations relating to use of lead-free components in products. These regulations include the European Union's Restrictions on Hazardous Substances ("RoHS"), Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment ("WEEE"), and the directive on End of Life for Vehicles (ELV); California's SB20 and SB50 which mimic RoHS; and China's WEEE adopted by the State Development and Reform Commission. RoHS took effect on July 1, 2006. New electrical and electronic equipment sold in the European Union may not exceed specified concentration levels of any of the six RoHS substances (lead, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, mercury, PBB, and PBDE) unless the equipment falls outside the scope of RoHS or unless one of the RoHS exemptions is satisfied. Our products as manufactured contain lead, but in ceramic form (the "ferroelectric memory capacitor") are at levels below the threshold concentration levels specified by RoHS and similar directives. However, these directives are still subject to amendment and such changes may be unfavorable to our products. Any supply of products that infringe applicable environmental laws may subject us to penalties, customer litigation or governmental sanctions, which may result in significant costs to us, which could adversely impact our results of operations. OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO STRICT ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS AND LEGAL UNCERTAINTIES, WHICH COULD IMPOSE UNANTICIPATED REQUIREMENTS ON OUR BUSINESS IN THE FUTURE AND SUBJECT US TO LIABILITIES. Page-24 Federal, state and local regulations impose various environmental controls on the discharge of chemicals and gases used in the manufacturing processes of our foundry and contract manufacturers. Compliance with these regulations can be costly. Increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of semiconductor operations. Any changes in environmental rules and regulations may impose the need for additional investments in capital equipment and the implementation of compliance programs in the future. Any failure by us or our foundries or contract manufacturers to comply with present or future environmental rules and regulations regarding the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to serious liabilities or cause our foundries or contract manufacturers to suspend manufacturing operations, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the costs of complying with environmental, health and safety requirements, in the future we may incur costs defending against environmental litigation brought by government agencies and private parties. We may be defendants in lawsuits brought by parties in the future alleging environmental damage, personal injury or property damage. A significant judgment against us could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to the Securities Market and Ownership of Our Shares - ------------------------------------------------------------------- OUR STOCK PRICE IS EXTREMELY VOLATILE AND YOU MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RESELL YOUR SHARES AT OR ABOVE THE PRICE YOU PAID. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely in recent periods and is likely to continue to be volatile. A number of other factors and contingencies, some of which are beyond our control, can affect the market price for our common stock, including the following: - actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; - the low daily trading volume of our stock, which has in recent years traded at prices below $5 per share; - announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; - competition, including pricing pressures and the potential impact of products of competitors' on our sales; - conditions or trends in the semiconductor memory products industry; - unexpected design and manufacturing difficulties; - changes in financial estimates or recommendations by stock market analysts regarding us or our competitors; Page-25 - announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; and - additions or departures of our senior management. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these technology companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. CONCENTRATED OWNERSHIP AND ANY RELATED SALES OF SHARES COULD AFFECT THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Trading in our common stock tends to be thin with low volume. As of December 31, 2007, two entities owned or controlled approximately 19% of our outstanding common stock or securities currently exercisable for common stock. As of such date, based on publicly available information, the National Electrical Benefit Fund beneficially owned or controlled approximately 9.4% of our outstanding common stock, including shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants to purchase 905,697 additional shares. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, based on the most recent Schedule 13G filings, as amended, by Cortina Asset Management, an investment advisor, it beneficially owned or controlled approximately 9.5% of our outstanding shares. The ownership and/or control by these stockholders may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us. Any program by these holders to dispose of a substantial amount of its shares of our common stock in the open market could have an adverse impact on the market for our common stock. PROVISIONS IN OUR CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AND PREFERRED SHARES RIGHTS AGREEMENT MAY HAVE ANTI-TAKEOVER EFFECTS AND COULD AFFECT THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative rights, qualifications, limitations or restrictions of the preferred stock, without any vote or action by our shareholders. Our authority to issue preferred stock with rights preferential to those of our common stock could be used to discourage attempts by others to obtain control of or acquire us, including an attempt in which the potential purchaser offers to pay a per share price greater than the current market price for our common stock, by making those attempts more difficult or costly to achieve. In addition, we may seek in the future to obtain new capital by issuing shares of preferred stock with rights preferential to those of our common stock. This provision could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Page-26 We also entered into a preferred shares rights agreement with Citicorp N. A., as rights agent on April 19, 2001, which gives our stockholders certain rights that would likely delay, defer or prevent a change of control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. On July 1, 2007, Computershare Trust Company, N.A. assumed these duties as rights agents upon the replacement of Citicorp N.A., as rights agent effective June 30, 2007. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 