Item 1A. Risk Factors and Part II. Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation and are based on information available to us on the date hereof. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Readers should also consult the forward- looking statements and risk factors listed from time to time in our Reports on Forms 10-Q, 10-K, and in our Annual Reports to Shareholders. PART I The following information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Unless otherwise indicated by the context, we use the terms "Ramtron," "Company," "we," "us," and "our," refer to Ramtron International Corporation and our consolidated entities described in Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 1. BUSINESS We are a fabless semiconductor company that designs, develops and markets specialized semiconductor memory, microcontroller, and integrated semiconductor solutions, used in many markets for a wide range of applications. We pioneered the integration of ferroelectric materials into semiconductor products, which enabled the development of a new class of nonvolatile memory products, called ferroelectric random access memory (FRAM). FRAM products merge the advantages of multiple memory technologies into a single device that is able to retain information without a power source, can be read from and written to at very fast speeds and written to many times, and consumes low amounts of power and can simplify the design of electronic systems. In many cases, we are the sole provider of FRAM-enabled semiconductor products, which facilitates close customer relationships, long application lifecycles and the potential for high-margin sales. Page-4 We also integrate analog and mixed-signal functions such as microprocessor supervision, tamper detection, timekeeping, and power failure detection onto a single device with our FRAM. This has enabled a new class of products that addresses the growing market need for more efficient and cost effective semiconductor products. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS In connection with the sale by Qimonda AG in November 2006 of its aggregate share and warrant holdings in Ramtron and which resale was registered by Ramtron, Mr. Klaus Fleischmann and Ms. Doris Keitel-Schulz, the two members of Ramtron's board of directors appointed by Qimonda in accordance with the original agreement governing the purchase of the Shares from Ramtron, resigned as members of the Company's board of directors, effective November 20, 2006. PRODUCT HIGHLIGHTS AND OTHER ACHIEVEMENTS THROUGHOUT 2006 The Company's FM24CL16, a 16Kb, 3-volt serial FRAM memory device was qualified to AEC-Q100 (Automotive Electronic Council's Stress Test Qualification for Integrated Circuits) standards. This qualification program was developed to support a number of customer design-ins from in-cab applications to the vehicle's most stringent environments. We launched our FM3130, a 64-Kb, 3-volt FRAM-Enhanced (trademark) Processor Companion product that combines the benefits of nonvolatile ferroelectric RAM with an integrated real-time clock/calendar in one very compact package. The FM3130 was streamlined to reduce system cost and board space in consumer and computing applications, supporting commonly-needed system functions in products such as printers and high-definition televisions (HDTV's), without the need for discrete components. The Company expanded its portfolio of serial memory products with the launch of the FM24C512, a half megabit nonvolatile FRAM product with an industry standard 2-wire serial interface. The FM24C512 is targeted for use in applications that require high capacity data collection such as utility metering and real-time configuration storage. The Company's integrated FRAM products, called processor companions, were designed into Pay As You Go utility meters by Ampy Automation Ltd. for the Salt River project, based in Phoenix, Arizona. The meters incorporate a two- way communication capability that offers enhanced functionality, including automatic meter reading, on-line inquiries, remote connect/disconnect, and complex rate structures. The meters also enable customers to exercise more control over their energy consumption. Page-5 We introduced our FM25L512, a 512 kilobit (Kb), 3-volt nonvolatile FRAM device with a high-speed serial peripheral interface (SPI). The FM25L512 provides increased data collection and storage capacity in a very compact, 8-pin package, cutting costs and board space with a range of applications from multi-function printers to industrial motor controllers. The FM25L512 outperforms alternative nonvolatile memory solutions for applications that require frequent and rapid writes and/or low power operation. These applications range from advanced data collection, in which the number of write cycles is critical, to demanding industrial controls, in which long write delays and limited endurance can cause data loss. Unlike serial EEPROMs, the FM25L512 performs write operations at bus speed with much lower power consumption. The Company launched the VRS51L3074, the market's first 8051-based microcontroller with nonvolatile FRAM memory. Ramtron has added FRAM into its fast and flexible Versa 8051 products for a quick and reliable nonvolatile data storage and processing system that only a FRAM-enhanced MCU can provide. The VRS51L3074 combines 8KB of FRAM memory with a fully-integrated, high- performance system-on-chip. Features include an advanced 40-MIPS, single-cycle 8051-core, 64KB Flash with In-System/In-Application Programming, 4KB SRAM, a JTAG program/debug interface, digital signal processing (DSP) extensions and a robust digital peripheral set. Operating at 3.3 volts over the entire industrial temperature range, the VRS51L3074 offers the ideal embedded data acquisition solution, targeting a wide array of applications from sensors and metering to industrial control, instrumentation and medical devices. The Company announced that Hyundai Autonet of Korea selected the Company's nonvolatile FRAM memory technology for smart airbags and occupant sensors in Hyundai automobiles. To date, the Company's FRAM products have been designed into smart airbag systems for eight different car manufacturers across the United States, Asia/Pacific, Japan and Europe. The Company shipped approximately 1.8 million units of FRAM memory for use in smart airbag systems during 2006. We signed a global distribution agreement with Mouser Electronics, Inc., to supply memory, microcontroller, and integrated semiconductor solutions. Mouser will support the Company's nonvolatile FRAM memory and high-performance microcontroller products, including Processor Companion, Serial and Parallel FRAM memory solutions, fast and flexible Versa 8051-based MCU's, and high-performance mixed-signal 8051-based MCU's. FINANCIAL INFORMATION BY SEGMENT Following our divestiture in 2005 discussed in Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, our continuing operations are conducted through one business segment, our semiconductor business. Our semiconductor business designs, develops, markets, manufactures specialized semiconductor memories, microcontrollers and integrated semiconductor solutions. Page-6 See Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for certain financial information concerning geographic financial information concerning the business of the Company. 2006 OVERVIEW OF BUSINESS In 2006, we sold products to over 100 customers and distributors. Our distributors sell Ramtron products to thousands of end customers. Principal markets include metering, information technology, automotive, industrial, scientific and medical. Many additional end markets and applications are served by distributors. We sell products through a direct sales force and a global network of manufacturer's representatives and distributors. We outsource the manufacturing of our products to third-party foundries, packaging, and test companies, allowing us to focus our efforts on product definition, design, marketing and sales. GENERAL INDUSTRY BACKGROUND Semiconductor products are typically classified as analog, digital, or mixed signal. Analog semiconductors are devices that have the ability to sense continuous real-world parameters like voltage, flow, pressure, temperature, velocity, and time. Digital semiconductors, such as memories or microcontrollers, store or process information via circuit-based on and off switches. Digital semiconductors store, process and manipulate data once the analog components have conditioned the inputs or signals. Mixed-signal semiconductors are integrated products that combine analog and digital circuit functions into a single device and are generally considered the most specialized and complex type of semiconductors in the market. Memory Market - ------------- Virtually all electronic systems incorporate semiconductor memory to enable and enhance performance. The primary performance characteristics of memory devices include: speed (the amount of time it takes to read and write data from and to the device); density (how much data can be stored in the device); power consumption, (how much power a device consumes when reading or writing data); endurance (how many times data can be written onto a memory device before it wears out); and volatility (whether or not the device can retain data without power and without refreshing). Volatile memory products rely on a random access memory (RAM) architecture, which requires a constant power source to retain data but allows data to be written and re-written quickly onto the device. The most common volatile memories on the market today are dynamic random access memories (DRAM), which are favored by designers for their density, and static random access memories (SRAM), which are favored because of their speed. Page-7 Nonvolatile memories were originally designed using a read only memory (ROM) architecture, which allows data to be written once and retained even when the power is turned off or lost. Technology advances in ROM-based memories now allow data to be written and erased multiple times as well as to retain data without a power source. Despite these advances, ROM-based devices write operations require a significant amount of power, are slow, and degrade relatively quickly. The most common nonvolatile memory on the market today is electrically erasable programmable read only memory (EEPROM), which is a low density solution that is generally used because of its relative ease-of-use compared to FLASH memory, which is used because of its low cost per bit and high density data storage capability. In an effort to create a nonvolatile memory with high read/write speeds, a hybrid memory, called battery-backed SRAM (BBSRAM) was created. While BBSRAMs allow higher speed data storage, the battery attachment makes the device larger in size, more expensive, and introduces battery-related reliability, lifetime and environmental issues. EEPROM, FLASH, and BBSRAMs, are widely used by system designers and are more or less standardized. As is the case with most commodities, price is the main differentiator. While these products are widely produced and incorporated in many applications, technical limitations such as write speed, power consumption, endurance and ease of use prevent these nonvolatile memory devices from being implemented in certain situations. Due to the large market for semiconductor memory products and the technical limitations of existing nonvolatile memory products, a market opportunity for alternative memory technologies has evolved. To date, ferroelectric random access memory (FRAM) technology has overcome many of the limitations of traditional nonvolatile memory and has attracted licensed suppliers who, with us, have shipped well over 100 million units. This has made FRAM the most commercially successful of the alternative nonvolatile memory technologies. Other emerging technologies, such as magneto resistive random access memory (MRAM), ovonics and molecular memory, are still in their early stages of development and have yet to demonstrate commercial viability and achieve market acceptance. Microcontroller Products - ------------------------ Microcontrollers (MCUs) are highly integrated devices that typically include a central processing unit (CPU), memory, input/output (I/O) ports and timers. Unlike a general-purpose computer, which also includes all of these components, an MCU is designed to control or provide a very specific task within a system. As a result, the parts can be simplified and shrunk to reduce production costs. MCUs are generally segmented by architectures ranging from 4-bit through 32-bit. 4-bit MCUs are relatively inexpensive but usually lack the minimum performance and features required for product differentiation and are typically used only to produce basic functionality in products. 16- and 32-bit architectures are typically higher performance but have historically been considered too expensive for many high-volume applications. As a result, we believe that 8-bit MCUs are generally perceived as the most cost-effective processing solution for high volume requirements. Page-8 Integration Trend - Mixed-Signal Devices - ---------------------------------------- In a typical system design, analog inputs are gathered by sensing devices and then conditioned for use by digital circuits. Once the analog inputs are converted into digital data by analog-to-digital conversion circuitry, digital devices such as microcontrollers and memory are used to manipulate and store the data, which is used to achieve a desired result or function in the system. Until recently, analog and digital functions were performed by stand-alone components that worked alongside each other within the system. Due to the increasing complexity of products, the advancement of product features and the desire among original equipment manufacturers to decrease the size and cost of electronic systems, the market has progressed toward integrating analog and digital components into stand-alone mixed-signal semiconductor devices. Analog products that are commonly integrated into an electronic system include temperature sensors, op amps, and regulators. This analog circuitry operates in conjunction with digital devices such as memories and microcontrollers. Microcontrollers are digital devices that incorporate many of the same functions as a computer but in a dramatically simplified form. They are typically designed to control or perform very specific tasks in a system. Advances in process technology and design capabilities now allow the integration of analog and digital devices into a single device by either embedding the functions onto a single chip or by combining them in a multi-chip package. Integrating functions in a single device has enabled lower overall system costs while increasing functionality and reducing board space requirements. As a result, many integrated semiconductor solutions generally recognize longer product life cycles and relatively higher product margins. OUR PRODUCTS - ------------ We design, develop and market specialized semiconductor memory, microcontroller and integrated semiconductor solutions used by customers for a wide range of applications in the metering, computing and information systems, automotive, communications, consumer and industrial, scientific and medical markets. Our product portfolio is comprised of stand-alone products, integrated products and microcontroller devices. We pioneered the use of ferroelectric technology to produce nonvolatile semiconductor memory products in commercial volumes. Our products have distinct advantages over incumbent nonvolatile memory devices. FRAM products combine the nonvolatile data storage capability of ROM with the benefits of RAM, which include a high number of read and write cycles, high-speed read and write cycles, and low power consumption. Since demonstrating our first product, we have expanded our FRAM product line to include various interfaces and densities, which include industry-standard serial and parallel interfaces; industry standard package types; and 4-kilobit, 16-kilobit, 64-kilobit, 256-kilobit and 1-megabit densities. Page-9 Our serial and parallel memories contain industry-standard interfaces that are widely used in electronic applications. System designers use serial memories to collect data due to their relative low cost. Serial memories require fewer connections to the host system, and due to their small package footprint, occupy less space on a circuit board. They are slower than other types of memory because they deliver data serially through a single port, which can require a system's processor to wait longer for the data it needs. Our serial FRAM devices are faster than serial EEPROM devices because the fast write speed of FRAM allows more frequent data transfers over the serial bus to the processor. Our parallel FRAM products are drop-in replacements for battery-backed SRAM products (BBSRAM). FRAM parallel products offer comparable features and data retention as to BBSRAMs without the requirement of a battery, which increases system reliability and reduces board space. Parallel memory devices transfer data faster than serial memories because they can deliver data through several ports simultaneously. Although parallel memory devices are larger and more costly than serial memory devices, they are well suited for high-performance applications due to their inherent high read and write speed capability. Our standard microcontrollers are cost-effective, 8-bit, microcontrollers that are drop-in replacements for industry standard 8051 MCUs. These products feature memory for programmability and data storage, as well as In-System/In-Application Programming (ISP/IAP) capabilities and standard 8051 peripherals. 8051 refers to an MCU developed by Intel in 1980 for use in embedded products and is one of the most widely used microcontrollers on the market. Our integrated FRAM products, called processor companions, are single-chip solutions that replace a number of individual system components to reduce cost and board space. The processor companion family is the most integrated FRAM product line developed to date and provides on a single chip the most commonly needed system functions for a variety of applications. Processor companions typically combine nonvolatile FRAM with analog and mixed-signal circuitry such as a real-time clock (RTC), a processor supervisor, and other commonly needed peripheral functions. Processor Companions are available in a variety of memory density and mixed-signal feature configurations. Processor companions are used in similar applications to our serial and parallel FRAM memory technologies but provide more of the system's functions with a single device. We are currently developing an integrated device that will include a microcontroller, FRAM, and mixed-signal functions in a single package. Our integrated enhanced microcontrollers are feature-rich, highly-integrated mixed-signal 8051 microcontrollers that offer a single-chip solution for a broad range of signal conditioning, data acquisition and control applications. These products include on-chip analog peripherals such as an analog-to-digital (A/D) converter, pulse width modulators (can be used as digital-to-analog (D/A) converters), a voltage reference, a programmable current source, an uncommitted operational amplifier, digital potentiometers and an analog switch, making them complete data acquisition System-on-Chip (SoC) devices. Page-10 MARKETS ============================================================================= Select Nonvolatile Memory and Integrated Semiconductor Applications - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- Meters Computing and Information Systems ------ --------------------------------- Electric, Gas, Waste RAID systems Taxi Printers and copiers Flow Servers Postage Network attached storage Automated Meter Reading Storage area networks - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- Automotive Industrial, Scientific and Medical ---------- ---------------------------------- Restraint systems Medical instruments Smart airbag systems Test equipment Auto Body controls Motor controls Car radio/DVD/Navigation systems Home automation Instrumentation clusters RF/ID data logging ============================================================================= Our engineering team has helped many customers develop leading-edge products that benefit from our FRAM products' unique technological characteristics, such as fast write speeds, high write endurance, low power, and accelerated time-to-market. The following application examples illustrate the use of our products in certain end markets. Automotive - Electronic systems and semiconductor content in automobiles has increased significantly over the past few years with the advent of more sophisticated safety, entertainment, body control, and telematics systems. In addition, the sensor count in automobiles has grown significantly over the past few years, which is driving the need to process and store more data than ever before. Metering - The need to monitor power usage has become increasingly important for utility companies as fuel prices have increased significantly over the past few years. Worldwide, there is a significant demand for systems that efficiently distribute power to areas of high demand. These trends have driven the need for more sophisticated digital metering products that can constantly track and report power usage data for utility companies. As a result of our success in supplying FRAM products for one of the world's largest digital metering installations, FRAM products are rapidly becoming the favored nonvolatile memory technology for time-of-use and automated meter reading applications. Computing - Computing applications for our products have increased significantly in recent years with a particular emphasis in multi-function printers and copiers, laser and inkjet printers and hard disk array controllers. The high write endurance of our FRAM products is the primary reason multi-function printer and copier manufacturers use FRAM products in their products, while the fast write capability and ability to store information quickly upon power-down is the primary reason hard disk array controller manufacturers use our products. Page-11 Industrial, Scientific and Medical - The industrial, scientific and medical market provides a large opportunity for FRAM products because it is characterized by applications that are subject to unique and demanding operating environments. FRAM products are well suited for these applications due to their inherent high reliability features like high endurance and low power consumption. MANUFACTURING We are a fabless semiconductor manufacturer that designs and develops new products for production by third-party foundries. Using third-party manufacturers enables us to avoid the large capital expenditures that would otherwise be required to manufacture our products in commercial volumes. Although we have entered into license agreements with Fujitsu, Rohm, Toshiba Corporation (Toshiba), Infineon Technologies AG and Texas Instruments that provide for the potential development and manufacture of FRAM products, Fujitsu is currently the sole manufacturer of our FRAM products. Fujitsu is required to notify us at least two years in advance of any change in its ability, or intention, to supply product wafers to us. Our products are manufactured by third-party foundries. We believe that manufacturing capacity for our microcontroller products is readily available for the foreseeable future. In addition, we believe manufacturing capabilities and capacity for our current integrated products, as well as those we may develop is readily available. We subcontract with non-U.S. companies to assemble and test our manufactured products. Assembly and testing services performed by such third parties are conducted in accordance with processes designed by us or the third-party manufacturers and are implemented under the supervision of our product engineers or such third-party manufacturers. The raw materials and packaging required for the manufacture of our products are readily available from multiple sources. PATENTS AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. We hold 99 United States patents covering key aspects of our products and technology. These patents will expire at various times between July 2007 and November 2024. We have applied for 8 additional United States patents covering certain aspects of our products and technology. We have also taken steps to apply for patents in jurisdictions outside the U.S. on our products and technology. We hold 4 non-U.S. issued patents and have 6 non-U.S. patent applications pending. One non-U.S. patent is co-owned with Mitsubishi Materials Corporation. Page-12 Our patents cover the critical aspects of FRAM technology, which we believe is a significant deterrent to other companies commercializing ferroelectric-based memory and integrated products without a license from us. We use our technological and engineering expertise to develop proprietary technologies for high quality, technologically advanced products that meet the complex and diverse needs of our customers. Our engineers have specific know-how in FRAM technology-based product design. We have licensed our FRAM technology to several companies, including Fujitsu, Toshiba, Samsung Electronics Company, Ltd. (Samsung), Infineon, NEC and Texas Instruments. We also have cross-licensing arrangements with National Semiconductor and Symetrix Corporation. Some of these licensing arrangements provide us with the right under certain conditions to call on the licensee's manufacturing capacity as well as to receive royalty payments while others include only royalty provisions. SEASONAL NATURE OF BUSINESS We do not consider our operations to be seasonal. CUSTOMERS We serve direct customers worldwide, including OEMs and subcontract manufacturers. Additionally, our distributors sell to customers worldwide, through which we indirectly serve a broad base of customers. Our customers include industry leading OEMs in a broad range of industries, Hyundai Autonet, and Ampy Automation; leading subcontract manufacturers, such as Jabil Circuit, Celestica, and Flextronics, who build end-market products incorporating our memory and integrated products; and leading distributors, such as Tokyo Electron Device, Future Electronics, MSC Vertriebs GmbH and Polar Star International. Our sales have been relatively balanced across our major sales regions including the Americas, Europe, Asia/Pacific and Japan. As a result, we are not particularly vulnerable to regional economic fluctuations in a specific part of the world. For fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, international sales comprised approximately 85%, 90% and 87%, respectively, of our net revenue. SALES AND MARKETING We use a Regionally based Manufacturing Representative sales force and a global network of distributors to sell our semiconductor products. In many cases, our distributors are responsible for product demand creation through OEM customers who are not directly served by our internal regional sales managers. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 66% of our product sales were to our distributor network, while direct customers accounted for approximately 34% of our revenue. Page-13 As of December 31, 2006, we employed 29 people in our marketing and sales organization. In addition to our Colorado Springs, Colorado, headquarters facility, we maintain full-time sales and customer service personnel in Canada, Japan, United Kingdom, Hong Kong, South Korea, Taiwan and China. We have distribution and/or manufacturers representative relationships with more than 60 companies worldwide, including North America, Europe, Japan and Asia/Pacific. These regionally-focused firms work with our regional sales managers in identifying new customers, providing technical support and other value-added services to customers, such as order processing, local inventory stocking, and management of currency fluctuation risks. BACKLOG The rate of booking new orders varies from month to month and depends on scheduling practices of individual customers. Cyclical industry conditions make it difficult for many customers to enter into long-term, fixed-price contracts. Delivery dates are adjusted at the reasonable request of our customers. For the foregoing reasons and because of the possibility of customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellations of orders without significant penalty, we do not believe that our backlog as of any particular date is firm or that it is a reliable indicator of actual sales for any succeeding period. COMPETITION The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive. We compete with numerous domestic and foreign companies. Our products primarily compete on the basis of price for functionality offered. We may be at a disadvantage in competing with many of these companies who have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources, as well as more diverse product lines that can provide cash flow during downturns in the semiconductor industry. We consider our FRAM products to be competitive with other nonvolatile memory devices such as EEPROM and BBSRAM products. Although FLASH memory products are a class of nonvolatile memory, we do not compete with FLASH due to its generally higher storage capacity than FRAM. Nonvolatile memory products are manufactured and marketed by major corporations possessing wafer manufacturing and integrated circuit production facilities such as ST-Microelectronics N.V., Atmel Corporation, and by specialized product companies, like, Intersil Corporation, Maxim Integrated and Integrated Silicon Solution Inc. Our standard microcontroller products compete directly with industry standard products offered by established semiconductor manufacturers such as Renasas, Freescale, Microchip, NEC, Atmel, NXP and Zilog. We intend to use our close customer relationships to sell in this intensely competitive environment where we have a proven track record of providing individualized design assistance and after sale support. Due to the more specialized nature of our mixed signal enhanced microcontrollers, they are less susceptible to the same level of competition as our industry standard microcontroller products. Page-14 Our licensees may market products that compete with our FRAM products. Most of our licensees have the right to manufacture and sell FRAM products, however, with the exception of Fujitsu, we are not aware of any licensees that market competitive FRAM products. Under our agreements with Rohm, Toshiba, Fujitsu, Samsung, Infineon, NEC and Texas Instruments, we granted each of those companies a non-exclusive license to FRAM technology, which includes the right to manufacture and sell products using FRAM technology. Most of these license agreements provide for the continuation of the license rights to our technology and know-how after expiration or termination of the agreements. Competition affecting our FRAM products may also come from emerging alternative nonvolatile technologies such as magnetic random access memory or phase change memory, or other developing technologies. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We use our technological and engineering expertise to develop proprietary technologies for high quality, technologically advanced products that meet the complex and diverse needs of our customers. We intend to continue leveraging and expanding our technological and engineering expertise to develop new proprietary technologies and expand our product offerings. We continue to make additional investments in research and development for technologies and products. Current research and development activities are focused on expanding our product offerings and securing additional foundry capacity to meet our future needs. We seek to maintain our leadership role in FRAM technology development by working in cooperation with the world's leading semiconductor manufacturers to further the development of our proprietary FRAM technology. Research and development expenses, including customer-sponsored research and development, were $9.9 million in 2006, $7.6 million in 2005, and $7 million in 2004. As of December 31, 2006, we had 44 employees engaged in research and development activities. In addition, manufacturing personnel were involved in research and development efforts to increase the manufacturing yields of our products. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE Federal, state and local regulations impose various environmental compliance measures on the discharge of chemicals and gases used in our prototype manufacturing and research and development processes. For more information on these regulations, please see the discussion in our risk factors below under the caption, "We are subject to environmental laws that are subject to change and may restrict the marketability of certain of our products, which could adversely impact our financial performance or expose us to future liabilities." We believe we have taken all necessary steps to ensure that our activities comply with all applicable environmental rules and regulations. However, a future failure by us to comply with such environmental rules and regulations regarding the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to substantial liabilities or could adversely affect our limited manufacturing operations. We believe that the risk of a future failure or violation are remote due to the nature of our current operations. Page-15 EMPLOYEES We have approximately 111 employees, including 44 in research and development, 24 in manufacturing, 29 in marketing and sales, and 14 in administration. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement, nor have we ever experienced any work stoppage. None of our non-executive employees currently have employment contracts or post-employment non-competition agreements. We believe that our employee relations are good. FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for certain financial information concerning geographic area information. AVAILABLE INFORMATION We make available financial information, new releases, news releases and other information on our website at www.ramtron.com. There is a direct link from the website to our Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings via the EDGAR database, where our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports are filed. Such reports are available free of charge on our website via a link to the SEC's website, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports and amendments with or furnish them to the SEC. In addition, such reports are also available free of cost by contacting Investor Relations, 1850 Ramtron Drive, Colorado Springs, Colorado 80921. Stockholders can also obtain such reports directly from the SEC at no charge at the SEC's website (www.sec.gov) or by visiting the SEC's Public Reference room in Washington, D.C. or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating To Our Business - ------------------------------ WE HAVE A HISTORY OF LOSSES FROM OPERATIONS AND OUR ACHIEVEMENT OF SUSTAINED PROFITABILITY IS UNCERTAIN. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitable operations is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, our ability to successfully sell our products at prices that are sufficient to cover our operating costs, to enter into additional technology development and license arrangements, to obtain sufficient contract manufacturing capacity and, if and as may be necessary, to raise additional financing to fund our increased operations. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in addressing these risks. Page-16 We have spent substantial amounts of money in developing our products and in our efforts to obtain commercial manufacturing capabilities for those products. Our ability to increase revenue or achieve and sustain profitability in the future will depend substantially on our ability to increase sales of our products by gaining new customers and increasing sales to our existing customers, reduce manufacturing costs, our ability to increase significantly sales of existing products, and our success in introducing and selling new products successfully. WE MAY NEED TO RAISE ADDITIONAL FUNDS TO FINANCE OUR OPERATIONS. In view of our expected future working capital requirements in connection with the fabrication and sale of our nonvolatile memory, microcontroller and integrated semiconductor solutions, as well as our projected research and development and other operating expenditures, we may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. We cannot be sure that any additional financing or other sources of capital will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. The inability to obtain additional financing when needed would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results and could adversely affect our ability to continue our business operations. If additional financing is obtained, any issuance of common or preferred stock to obtain funding would result in dilution of our existing stockholders' interests. IF WE FAIL TO VIGOROUSLY PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION MAY SUFFER. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary technology used in our products. We protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and employee and third party non-disclosure and assignment agreements. We cannot provide assurances that any of our patent applications will be approved or that any of the patents that we own will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others or be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Policing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. In addition, we cannot be certain that we will be able to prevent other parties from designing and marketing semiconductor products or that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire the same or substantially equivalent technologies as ours. Page-17 We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims that result in costly litigation and could harm our business and ability to compete. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, as well as frequent claims and related litigation regarding these patents and other intellectual property rights. In particular, many leading semiconductor memory companies have extensive patent portfolios with respect to manufacturing processes, product designs, and semiconductor memory technology, including ferroelectric memory technology. We may be involved in litigation to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and know-how, to determine the validity of property rights of others, or to defend against claims of invalidity. This type of litigation can be expensive, regardless of whether we win or lose. Also, we cannot be certain that third parties will not make a claim of infringement against us or against our licensees in connection with their use of our technology. In the event of claims of infringement against our licensees with respect to our technology, we may be required to indemnify our licensees, which could be very costly. Any claims, even those without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. A successful claim of infringement against us or one of our semiconductor manufacturing licensees in connection with our use of our technology would harm our business and result in significant cash expense to us to cover litigation costs, as well as the reduction of future license revenue. EARTHQUAKES, OTHER NATURAL DISASTERS AND POWER SHORTAGES OR INTERRUPTIONS MAY DAMAGE OUR BUSINESS. Some of our contract manufacturers' facilities are located near major earthquake faults. If a major earthquake or other natural disaster occurs which damages those facilities or restricts their operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. A major earthquake or other natural disaster near one or more of our major suppliers could disrupt the operations of those suppliers, which could limit the supply of our products and harm our business. OUR FUTURE SUCCESS DEPENDS IN PART ON THE CONTINUED SERVICE OF A RELATIVELY SMALL NUMBER OF KEY DESIGN ENGINEERS, SALES, MARKETING AND EXECUTIVE PERSONNEL, AND IF WE WERE UNABLE TO ATTRACT ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL AS NEEDED OR RETAIN OUR KEY PERSONNEL, OUR BUSINESS WILL SUFFER. Our future success depends, among other factors, on the continued service of our key technical and management personnel and on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees. We are particularly dependent on the highly skilled design, process, materials and testing engineers involved in the development and oversight of the manufacture of our semiconductor products and processes. The competition for these personnel is intense, and the loss of key employees, including our executive officers, or our inability to attract additional qualified personnel in the future, could have both an immediate and a long-term adverse effect on us. None of our employees have entered into post-employment, non-competition agreements with us and, therefore, our employees are not contractually restricted from providing services to our competitors. Page-18 Risks Related to Our Products - ----------------------------- OUR PRODUCTS ARE COMPLEX AND MAY CONTAIN DEFECTS THAT COULD RESULT IN PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS, AN INCREASE IN OUR COSTS OR A REDUCTION IN OUR REVENUE. Our products are complex and may contain defects, particularly when first introduced or as new versions are released. We develop integrated semiconductor products containing functions in addition to memory, thereby increasing the overall complexity of our products. We rely primarily on our in-house testing personnel to design test operations and procedures to detect any defects prior to delivery of our products to our customers. Because our products are manufactured by third parties and the long lead times involved, should problems occur in the operation or performance of our products, we may experience delays in meeting key introduction dates or scheduled delivery dates to our customers. These defects also could cause us to incur significant re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our new product development efforts and cause significant customer relations issues and damage to our business reputation. Any defects could require product replacement or recall or we could be obligated to accept product returns. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur substantial costs and harm our business. Our products are typically sold at prices that are significantly lower than the cost of the end-products into which they are incorporated. A defect or failure in our product could cause failure in our customer's end-product, so we could face product liability claims for damages that are disproportionately higher than the revenue and profits we receive from the products involved. There can be no assurance that any insurance we maintain will sufficiently protect us from any such claims. BECAUSE OUR PRODUCTS TYPICALLY HAVE LENGTHY SALES CYCLES, WE EXPERIENCE SUBSTANTIAL DELAYS BETWEEN INCURRING EXPENSES RELATED TO DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PRODUCTS AND THE GENERATION OF REVENUE FROM THOSE PRODUCTS. Product sales cycles usually require more than 18 months to realize volume shipments after we first identify a customer opportunity. We first work with customers to achieve a design "win" (inclusion of our product in the customer's product design), which may take several months or longer. Our customers then complete their product design, testing and evaluation process and begin to ramp-up production, a period that typically lasts an additional six months or longer. As a result, a significant period of time may elapse between our development of product and our realization of revenue, if any, from volume purchases of our products by our customers. A delay or cancellation of a customer's plans after a design win could significantly adversely affect our financial results because we may have incurred significant expense and generated no revenue. WE DEPEND ON A SMALL NUMBER OF SUPPLIERS FOR THE SUPPLY OF OUR PRODUCTS AND THE SUCCESS OF OUR BUSINESS MAY BE DEPENDENT ON OUR ABILITY TO MAINTAIN AND EXPAND OUR RELATIONSHIPS WITH FOUNDRIES AND OTHER SUPPLIERS. Page-19 We currently rely on a single unaffiliated foundry at Fujitsu in Japan to manufacture all of our FRAM products and a small number of other third-party contract manufacturers and foundries to manufacture our other products. Reliance on a single foundry involves several risks, including capacity constraints or delays in the timely delivery of our products, reduced control over delivery schedules and the cost of our products, variations in manufacturing yields, dependence on the foundry for quality assurance, and the potential loss of production and a slow down in customer orders due to seismic activity, other force majeure events and other factors beyond our control. Although we continuously evaluate sources of supply and may seek to add additional foundry capacity, there can be no assurance that such additional capacity can be obtained at acceptable prices, if at all. We are also subject to the risks of service disruptions and raw material shortages affecting our foundry supplier, which could also result in additional costs or charges to us. We also rely on domestic and foreign subcontractors for die assembly and testing of products, and are subject to risks of disruption of these services and possible quality problems. The occurrence of any supply or other problem resulting from these risks could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. We cannot provide any assurances that foundry or packaging and testing services will be available to us on terms and conditions, and at the times, acceptable to us. If we are unable to obtain foundry and packaging and testing services meeting our needs, we may be unable to produce products at the times and for the costs we anticipate and our financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. WE ARE A RELATIVELY SMALL COMPANY WITH LIMITED RESOURCES, COMPARED TO SOME OF OUR CURRENT AND POTENTIAL COMPETITORS, AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY AND INCREASE OUR MARKET SHARE. Our nonvolatile memory, microcontrollers and integrated semiconductor products, which presently account for substantially all of our revenue, compete against products offered by current and potential competitors with longer operating histories, significantly greater financial and personnel resources, better name recognition and a larger base of customers than we have. In addition, many of our competitors have their own facilities for the production of semiconductor memory components or have recently added significant production capacity. As a result, these competitors may have greater credibility with our existing and potential customers. They also may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can to ours. In addition, some of our current and potential competitors have already established supplier or joint development relationships with the decision makers at our current or potential customers. These competitors may be able to leverage their existing relationships to discourage their customers from purchasing products from us or persuade them to replace our products with their products. These and other competitive pressures may prevent us from competing successfully against current or future competitors, and may materially harm our business. Competition could force us to decrease our prices, reduce our sales, lower our gross profits or decrease our market share. Some but not all of our competitors include companies such as ST Microelectronics, Renesas Technology Corporation, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., Microchip Technology Inc., NEC Corporation, Atmel Corporation, Fujitsu and NXP, as well as specialized product companies like Intersil Corporation, Catalyst Semiconductor, Inc., Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., and Integrated Silicon Solution Inc., which produce products that compete with our products and possibly our future products. Page-20 EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES AND STANDARDS MAY POSE A THREAT TO THE COMPETITIVENESS OF OUR PRODUCTS. Competition affecting our FRAM products may also come from alternative nonvolatile technologies such as magnetic random access memory or phase change memory, or other developing technologies. We cannot provided assurance that we will be able to identify new product opportunities successfully, develop and bring to market new products, achieve design wins or respond effectively to new technological changes or product announcements by our competitors. In addition, we may not be successful in developing or using new technologies or in developing new products or product enhancements that achieve market acceptance. Our competitors or customers may offer new products based on new technologies, new industry standards or end-user or customer requirements, including products that have the potential to replace, or provide lower-cost or higher-performance alternatives to, our products. The introduction of new products by our competitors or customers could render our existing and future products obsolete or unmarketable. SUCCESS OF OUR FUTURE PRODUCTS IS SUBSTANTIALLY DEPENDENT ON BROADER MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF FRAM MEMORY PRODUCTS. Substantially all of our current revenue is from sales of our FRAM stand- alone nonvolatile memory devices or devices containing embedded FRAM nonvolatile memory. Many of our integrated semiconductor solutions will likely include FRAM memory. A memory technology other than FRAM nonvolatile memory technology may be adopted as an industry standard. Our competitors are generally in a better financial and marketing position than we are to influence industry acceptance of a particular memory technology. In particular, a primary source of competition may come from alternative technologies such as magnetic random access memory, phase change memory devices, or other technologies developed in the future. To the extent our competitors are able to promote and achieve acceptance of a nonvolatile memory technology other than FRAM as an industry standard, our business will be seriously harmed. OUR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS ARE FOCUSED ON A LIMITED NUMBER OF NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND PRODUCTS, AND ANY DELAY IN THE DEVELOPMENT, OR THE ABANDONMENT, OF THESE TECHNOLOGIES OR PRODUCTS BY INDUSTRY PARTICIPANTS, OR THEIR FAILURE TO ACHIEVE MARKET ACCEPTANCE, COULD COMPROMISE OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION. Our FRAM semiconductor memory, microcontroller and integrated semiconductor products are used as components in electronic devices in various markets. As a result, we have devoted and expect to continue to devote a large amount of resources to develop products based on new and emerging technologies and standards that will be commercially introduced in the future. Our research and development expense for the year ended December 31, 2006, was $9.9 million, or 24% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006. Page-21 If we do not accurately anticipate new technologies and standards, or if the products that we develop based on new technologies and standards fail to achieve market acceptance, our competitors may be better able to satisfy market demand than we would. Furthermore, if markets for new technologies and standards develop later than we anticipate, or do not develop at all, demand for our products that are currently in development would suffer, resulting in lower sales of these products than we currently anticipate. We cannot be certain that any products we may develop for new standards will achieve market acceptance. IF WE DO NOT CONTINUALLY DEVELOP NEW PRODUCTS THAT ACHIEVE MARKET ACCEPTANCE, OUR REVENUE MAY DECLINE. We need to develop new products and new process and manufacturing technologies. We believe that our ability to compete in the markets in which we expect to sell our FRAM, microcontroller and integrated semiconductor products will depend, in part, on our ability to produce products that address customer needs efficiently and in a cost-effective manner and also our ability to incorporate effectively mixed-signal and other semiconductor functions with our FRAM products. Our inability to successfully produce new generations of products would harm our ability to compete and have a negative impact on our operating results. We have a limited operating history in creating and marketing mixed-signal products and have had very limited revenue from those products. If we fail to introduce new products in a timely manner or are unable to manufacture such products successfully, or if our customers do not successfully introduce new systems or products incorporating our products, or if market demand for our new products does not develop as anticipated, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Risks Related to Our Sales - -------------------------- WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS RELATING TO PRODUCT CONCENTRATION AND LACK OF REVENUE DIVERSIFICATION. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue fewer than 20 products, and we expect these products to continue to account for a large percentage of our revenue in the near term. Continued market support of these products is, therefore, critical to our future success. Competitors could introduce products that could reduce both the volume and price per unit of our products. Our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows could therefore be adversely affected. WE MUST BUILD PRODUCTS BASED ON DEMAND FORECASTS; IF SUCH FORECASTS ARE INACCURATE, WE MAY INCUR SIGNIFICANT LOSSES. Page-22 Although we consider the market demand for our products to be less volatile than is the case with standard memory components, we must order products and build inventory substantially in advance of product shipments, and there is a risk that, because customer requirements for our products are subject to fluctuation, we will forecast incorrectly and produce excess or insufficient inventories of particular products. Our customers' ability to reschedule or cancel orders without significant penalty could adversely affect our liquidity, as we may be unable to adjust our purchases from independent foundries to match such customer changes and cancellations. We have in the past produced excess quantities of certain products, which has had an adverse effect on our results of operations for the period. To the extent we produce excess or insufficient inventories of particular products, our results of operations could be adversely affected. WE COMPETE IN CERTAIN MARKETS WITH SOME OF OUR FRAM TECHNOLOGY LICENSEES, WHICH MAY REDUCE OUR PRODUCT SALES. We have licensed the right to fabricate products based on our FRAM technology and memory architecture to certain independent semiconductor device manufacturers. Fujitsu, on which we depend for our FRAM wafer supply, markets certain FRAM memory products that compete with certain of our FRAM products. Some of our licensees have suspended or terminated their FRAM initiatives, while others may still be pursuing a possible FRAM-based technology initiative or product development without our knowledge. We expect manufacturers that develop products based on our technology will sell such products worldwide. We are entitled to royalties from sales of FRAM products by some but not all of these licensees, and we have the right under certain of our licensing agreements to negotiate an agreement for a fraction of the licensee's FRAM manufacturing capacity. Our licensees may, however, give the development and manufacture of their own FRAM products a higher priority than ours. Any competition in the marketplace from FRAM products manufactured and marketed by our licensees could reduce our product sales and harm our operating results. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO REPLACE OUR EXPECTED REVENUE FROM SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Our success is dependent upon continuing relationships with significant customers who, directly or indirectly, purchase significant quantities of our products. The reduction of product sales to our significant customers, without a corresponding increase in revenue from other customers or revenue from relationships developed with new customers, may result in significant decreases in our revenue, which would harm our cash flows, operating results and financial condition. We cannot assure you that we would be able to replace these relationships on a timely basis or at all. WE RELY ON DISTRIBUTORS FOR A SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF OUR REVENUE AND IF OUR RELATIONSHIPS WITH ONE OR MORE OF THOSE DISTRIBUTORS WERE TO TERMINATE, OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE HARMED. Page-23 We market and distribute our products primarily through authorized independent distributors, which typically offer competing products. These distribution channels have been characterized by rapid change, including consolidations and financial difficulties. Distributors have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue in the past. If we were to lose our significant distributors, we might not be able to obtain other distributors to represent us or new distributors might not have sufficiently strong relationships with the current end customers to maintain our current level of net sales. Additionally, the time and resources involved with changeover and education of distributors could have an adverse impact on our business in the short term. We do not typically enter into long-term arrangements with our distributors and resellers, and we cannot be certain as to future order levels from our distributors and resellers. When we do enter into long-term arrangements, the contracts are generally terminable at the convenience of either party and it may be difficult to replace that source of revenue in the short-term upon cancellation. Our business primarily depends on these third parties to sell our products. As a result, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the loss of one or more of our current distributors and resellers, additional volume pricing arrangements, order cancellations, delay in shipment by one of our distributors or resellers or the failure of our distributors or sellers to successfully sell our products. FAILURE TO MANAGE OUR DISTRIBUTION CHANNEL RELATIONSHIPS COULD IMPEDE OUR FUTURE GROWTH. The future growth of our business will depend in large part on our ability to manage our relationships with current and future distributors, to develop additional channels for the distribution and sale of our products, and to manage these relationships. As we execute our indirect sales strategy, we must manage the potential conflicts that may arise with our direct sales efforts. For example, conflicts with a distributor may arise when a customer begins purchasing directly from us rather than through the distributor. The inability to successfully execute or manage a multi-channel sales strategy could impede our future growth. Management of our sales channels requires a significant amount of our management's time and system resources to manage properly. If we fail to manage our sales channels, including the sales channels we must develop for current and future products, we will not be able to increase our sales and our results of operations will be materially adversely affected. WE EXPECT THAT INTERNATIONAL SALES WILL CONTINUE TO REPRESENT A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR PRODUCT SALES IN THE FUTURE. AS A RESULT OF THE LARGE FOREIGN COMPONENT OF OUR REVENUE, WE ARE SUBJECT TO A NUMBER OF RISKS RESULTING FROM SUCH OPERATIONS. Page-24 International sales comprise a significant portion of our product sales, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. Such risks include political and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, foreign currency fluctuations, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology, tariffs and other barriers and restrictions, and the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. There can be no assurance that such factors will not adversely impact our results of operations in the future or require us to modify our current business practices. The majority of our revenue, expense and capital purchasing activities are transacted in U.S. dollars. However, because a portion of our operations consists of activities outside of the United States, we conduct certain transactions in other currencies, namely the Japanese Yen and Canadian dollar. As part of our risk management strategy, we frequently evaluate our foreign currency exchange risk by monitoring market data and external factors that may influence exchange rate fluctuations. As a result, we may in the future engage in transactions involving the short-term hedging of our foreign currency exposure. Our business is also subject to risks generally associated with doing business with third-party manufacturers in non-U.S. jurisdictions including, but not limited to foreign government regulations and political and financial unrest which may cause disruptions or delays in shipments to our customers or access to our inventories. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by these or other factors related to our international operations. Risks Related to Acquisitions - ----------------------------- ANY ACQUISITIONS WE MAKE COULD DISRUPT OUR BUSINESS AND HARM OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION. As part of our strategy to increase our revenue and expand our product lines, we continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire other businesses, intellectual property or technologies that would complement our current offerings, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities. Future acquisitions that we may make or joint ventures that we may enter into with other companies, could require us to incur debt or contingent liabilities or require us to issue equity securities that could cause the trading price of our stock to decline. Other potential acquisitions that we may make, or joint ventures that we may enter into, entail a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results, including: - problems integrating the acquired operations, technologies or products with our existing business and products; - the diversion of management's time and attention from our core business; Page-25 - the need for financial resources above our planned investment levels; - difficulties in retaining business relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired company; - risks associated with entering markets in which we lack prior experience; - risks associated with the transfer of rights and licenses of intellectual property; - the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; and - the potential impairment of related goodwill and intangible assets. Accounting and Regulatory Risks - ------------------------------- WE INCURRED SIGNIFICANT INVENTORY VALUATION ADJUSTMENTS IN 2005 AND 2004, AND WE MAY INCUR ADDITIONAL SIGNIFICANT INVENTORY VALUATION ADJUSTMENTS IN THE FUTURE. We typically plan our production and inventory levels based on our internal forecasts of customer demand, which are unpredictable even though our products are often specified in our customers' product designs. Our customers' order volumes can fluctuate materially in advance of product shipments. The value of our inventory is dependent on our estimate of future average selling prices, and, if we overestimate our projected average selling prices, we may be required to adjust our inventory value to reflect the lower of cost or market. RECENT CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING STANDARDS REGARDING STOCK OPTION PLANS COULD LIMIT THE DESIRABILITY OF GRANTING STOCK OPTIONS, WHICH COULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN EMPLOYEES, AND COULD ALSO NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123R, "Share-Based Payments" (SFAS 123R). As a result of this standard we are recording compensation expense equal to the fair value of each stock option granted. This change in accounting standards reduces the attractiveness of granting stock options because of the additional expense associated with these grants, which negatively impacts our results of operations. Nevertheless, stock options are an important employee recruitment and retention tool, and we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel if we reduce the scope of our employee stock option program. WE ARE SUBJECT TO ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS THAT ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE AND MAY RESTRICT THE MARKETABILITY OF CERTAIN OF OUR PRODUCTS, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OR EXPOSE US TO FUTURE LIABILITIES. Page-26 We are subject to laws and regulations relating to the use of and human exposure to hazardous materials. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to future liabilities or result in the limitation or suspension of the sale or production of product, including without limitation, products that do not meet the various regulations relating to use of lead-free components in products. These regulations include the European Union's Restrictions on Hazardous Substances (RoHS), Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment ("WEEE"), and the directive on End of Life for Vehicles (ELV); California's SB20 and SB50 which mimic RoHS; and China's WEEE adopted by the State Development and Reform Commission. RoHS took effect on July 1, 2006. New electrical and electronic equipment sold in the European Union may not exceed specified concentration levels of any of the six RoHS substances (lead, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, mercury, PBB, and PBDE) unless the equipment falls outside the scope of RoHS or unless one of the RoHS exemptions is satisfied. Our products as manufactured contain lead, but in ceramic form (the "ferroelectric memory capacitor") are at levels below the threshold concentration levels specified by RoHS and similar directives. However, these directives are still subject to amendment and such changes may be unfavorable to our products. Any supply of products that infringe applicable environmental laws may subject us to penalties, customer litigation or governmental sanctions, which may result in financial harm to us. OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO STRICT ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS AND LEGAL UNCERTAINTIES, WHICH COULD IMPOSE UNANTICIPATED REQUIREMENTS ON OUR BUSINESS IN THE FUTURE AND SUBJECT US TO LIABILITIES. Federal, state and local regulations impose various environmental controls on the discharge of chemicals and gases used in the manufacturing processes of our third-party foundry and contract manufacturers. Compliance with these regulations can be costly. Increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of semiconductor operations. Any changes in environmental rules and regulations may impose the need for additional investments in capital equipment and the implementation of compliance programs in the future. Any failure by us or our foundries or contract manufacturers to comply with present or future environmental rules and regulations regarding the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to serious liabilities or cause our foundries or contract manufacturers to suspend manufacturing operations, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the costs of complying with environmental, health and safety requirements, in the future we may incur costs defending against environmental litigation brought by government agencies and private parties. We may be defendants in lawsuits brought by parties in the future alleging environmental damage, personal injury or property damage. A significant judgment against us could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Page-27 Risks Relating To The Securities Market And Ownership Of Our Shares - ------------------------------------------------------------------- OUR STOCK PRICE IS EXTREMELY VOLATILE AND YOU MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RESELL YOUR SHARES AT OR ABOVE THE PRICE YOU PAID. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely in recent periods and is likely to continue to be volatile. It is possible that the price of our common stock will decline after you purchase our shares and that you would lose all or part of your investment. A number of other factors and contingencies, some of which are beyond our control, can affect the market price for our common stock, including the following: - actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; - the low daily trading volume of our stock, which has in recent years traded at prices below $5 per share; - announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; - competition, including pricing pressures and the potential impact of products of competitors' on our sales; - conditions or trends in the semiconductor memory products industry; - unexpected design and manufacturing difficulties; - changes in financial estimates or recommendations by stock market analysts regarding us or our competitors; - announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; and - additions or departures of our senior management. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general, and shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these technology companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating results. CONCENTRATED OWNERSHIP AND ANY RELATED SALES OF SHARES COULD AFFECT THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Page-28 Trading in our common stock tends to be thin with low volume. Three entities own or control approximately 27% of our outstanding common stock or securities exercisable for common stock. As of February 12, 2007, the National Electrical Benefit Fund beneficially owns or controls approximately 9.8% of our outstanding common stock, which includes shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants to purchase 905,697 additional shares. In addition as of February 14, 2007, Ashford Capital Management and Cortina Asset Management, each an investment advisor, beneficially owns or controls approximately 10% and 6.9% of our outstanding shares. The ownership and/or control by these shareholders may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us. Any program by these holders to dispose of a substantial amount of its shares of our common stock in the open market could have an adverse impact on the market for our common stock. A LARGE PERCENTAGE OF OUR OUTSTANDING SHARES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR FUTURE SALE. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the availability of those shares for sale in the public market, could harm the market price of our common stock. These sales also may make it more difficult for us to raise financing through the sale of equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of February 12, 2007, we had 25,170,913 shares of common stock outstanding and all shares were freely tradable without restriction or pursuant to effective registration statements under the Securities Act. As of February 12, 2007, approximately 6,072,487 shares were subject to issuance upon exercise of awards granted under our stock option and award plans. As of the same date, approximately 2,330,892 shares were also subject to issuance upon exercise of outstanding warrants and such shares have been registered for immediate resale in the public market. PROVISIONS IN OUR CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AND PREFERRED SHARES RIGHTS AGREEMENT MAY HAVE ANTI-TAKEOVER EFFECTS AND COULD AFFECT THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative rights, qualifications, limitations or restrictions of the preferred stock, without any vote or action by our shareholders. Our authority to issue preferred stock with rights preferential to those of our common stock could be used to discourage attempts by others to obtain control of or acquire us, including an attempt in which the potential purchaser offers to pay a per share price greater than the current market price for our common stock, by making those attempts more difficult or costly to achieve. In addition, we may seek in the future to obtain new capital by issuing shares of preferred stock with rights preferential to those of our common stock. This provision could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. We have also entered into a preferred shares rights agreement with Citicorp. N. A., as rights agent, dated as of April 19, 2001, which gives our stockholders certain rights that would likely delay, defer or prevent a change of control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. Page-29 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 