Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are some of the potential risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider these factors, as well as the other information contained in this document, when evaluating your investment in our securities. The below list of important factors is not all-inclusive or necessarily in order of importance. Stock option matters – As previously disclosed, on November 13, 2006, we received a letter of informal inquiry from the Enforcement Division of the SEC relating to the Company’s stock option practices from January 1, 1997 to present. Our Audit Committee, with the assistance of outside legal counsel, is conducting an independent review of the Company’s historical stock option grant practices and related accounting for stock option grants. On May 24, 2007, the SEC issued a formal order of investigation in connection with this matter, and, on May 29, 2007, we received a document subpoena from the SEC acting pursuant to such order. We have cooperated with the SEC in this matter and intend to continue to do so. See the “Explanatory Note” preceding Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K for more information regarding this and related matters. On September 20, 2006, the Company received formal notice from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) regarding its intent to begin an audit of the Company’s tax years 2004 and 2005. In connection with this normal recurring audit, the IRS has requested certain documentation with respect to stock options for the Company’s 2004 and 2005 tax years. The Company has produced various documents requested by the IRS and is currently in the process of responding to additional documentation requests. In addition, in November, 2006, two stockholder derivative lawsuits were filed against the Company, as a nominal defendant, and several of our current and former officers and directors in the United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania. The two substantially identical stockholder derivative complaints allege that the individual defendants improperly backdated grants of stock options to several officers and directors in violation of our stockholder-approved stock option plans during the period 1996-2002, improperly recorded and accounted for backdated stock options in violation of generally accepted accounting principles, improperly took tax deductions based on backdated stock options in violation of the Code, produced and disseminated false financial statements and SEC filings to our stockholders and to the market that improperly recorded and accounted for the backdated option grants, concealed the alleged improper backdating of stock options and obtained substantial benefits from sales of Company stock while in the possession of material inside information. The complaints seek damages on behalf of the Company against certain current and former officers and directors and allege breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, securities law violations and other claims. The two lawsuits have been consolidated into a single action as In re Black Box Corporation Derivative Litigation, Master 15 Table of Contents File No. 2:06-CV-1531-TMH, and plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint on January 29, 2007. The parties have stipulated that responses by the defendants, including the Company, are due on or before September 4, 2007. The stock option investigations and related litigation have imposed, and are likely to continue to impose, significant costs on us, both monetarily and in requiring attention by our management team. While we are unable to estimate the costs that we may incur in the future, these are likely to include: • professional fees in connection with the conduct of the investigations, the restatement of our financial statements and the defense of the litigation; • potential damages, fines, penalties or settlement costs; and • payments to, or on behalf of, our current and former officers and directors subject to the investigation or named in the litigation pursuant to our indemnification obligations (in certain circumstances these indemnification payments are recoverable if it is determined that the officer or director at issue acted improperly, but there is no assurance that we will be able to recover such payments). While we expect that certain of such costs will be reimbursed pursuant to an insurance policy, at this point such costs have not been reimbursed. In the course of our investigation, we have determined that a number of executives may have exercised options for which the application of Section 162(m) may apply. It is possible that these options will be treated as having been granted at less than fair market value for federal income tax purposes because we incorrectly applied the measurement date as defined in APB 25. If such options are deemed to have been granted at less than fair market value, pursuant to Section 162(m), any compensation to our executive officers, including proceeds from options exercised in any given tax year in excess of $1.0 million, will be disallowed as a deduction for tax purposes. We estimate that the potential tax effected liability for any such disallowed Section 162(m) deduction would approximate $3.6 million. We may also incur interest and penalties if we were to incur any such tax liability, which could be material. In addition, we are considering the application of Section 409A to those options for which we incorrectly applied the measurement date as defined in APB 25. It is possible that these options will be treated as having been granted at less than fair market value for federal income tax purposes and thus subject to Section 409A. Accordingly, we may adopt remedial measures to address the application of Section 409A. We do not currently know what impact Section 409A will have, or any such remedial measures, if adopted, would have on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, although such impact could be material. Adverse developments in the legal proceedings or the investigation arising out of our historical stock option granting practices or any other matter raised as a result thereof could have an adverse impact on our business and our stock price, including increased stock volatility. Competition – we operate in a highly competitive industry. Our competitors may be able to deliver products and services at better prices or more quickly due to factors beyond our control. New competitors may also arise in the future, which threaten our ability to sustain or grow our market share. We cannot guarantee that we can continue to compete effectively in the future and still be able to sustain our historical levels of profit margin. Economic environments – we, our customers or our vendors may experience economic hardships due to inflation or recession, changes in laws and regulations, business disruptions due to natural disasters, acts of terrorism or war or other factors that are beyond our control and that could negatively impact our financial condition or our ability to meet our future financial goals. Successful integration of acquired businesses – we have completed several acquisitions in recent years. Our future financial results are dependent on the successful integration of those acquisitions within the projected timeframes and cost parameters. We also face pressure to adequately conduct our ongoing operations while working toward the integration of these businesses. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully integrate our acquisitions as projected or without disruption to other areas of our business which could have a negative impact on our financial results. International operations – we operate in several countries outside of the United States. Our operations or our financial condition may be negatively affected by events surrounding our international operations such as changes in laws and regulations, political or economic instability, currency fluctuations, supply chain disruptions, acts of terrorism, natural disasters or other political, economic or environmental factors. We cannot rely on the past results of our international operations as an indicator of future results or assure you that we will not be adversely affected by those factors inherent with international operations. 16 Table of Contents Retention of key personnel – the success of our business depends on our ability to attract and retain quality employees, executives and directors. We offer comprehensive salary and benefit packages including stock options as a means of attracting and retaining personnel. We face pressure to maintain our profit margins and remain competitive in our industry while we compete for personnel in our local markets with a variety of different businesses that may be able to offer more attractive incentives due to their individual financial situations. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to attract and retain personnel with our current incentives and at costs that are consistent with our projected profit margins. In addition, the success of our compensation program has relied heavily on the use of stock options which provided both a compensation and retention element due to vesting. If we are not able to replicate the compensation and retention benefits historically provided by our stock options, we will need to rely more heavily on other forms of compensation, primarily cash compensation to adequately compensate employees, executives and directors. Demand for products and services – we and our competitors in the industry are dependent on the demand for the products and services that we deliver. Changes in technology or other unforeseen developments within our industry could result in decreased demand for our products and services. We cannot guarantee that historical levels of demand will continue or increase in the future. Supply chain and distribution agreements – through our recent acquisitions, we have significant arrangements with a small number of suppliers of voice technology. If we experience disruptions in our supply chain with these manufacturers for any reason or lose our distribution rights, we may not be able to fulfill customer commitments with an acceptable alternative or we may not be able to obtain alternative solutions at similar costs. Future mergers and acquisitions – a key component of our growth strategy is through strategic mergers and acquisitions. We may not continue to be successful in our search for potential acquisition candidates that are acceptable for our business model, or we may not be successful in our attempts to acquire new businesses that we have identified as attractive acquisition candidates. We cannot guarantee that we will meet our projected growth targets in the future if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to acquire additional businesses. Public sector business – our revenues from sales to the public sector, including sales to federal, state and local governments and governmental agencies has grown in recent years. These sales are made through various direct contracts, through reseller agreements with government contractors and through open market sales. Government contracting is a highly-regulated area. Failure to comply with the technical requirements of regulations or contracts could subject us to fines, penalties, suspension or debarment from doing business with such customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Revenue growth – our revenue is primarily generated through individual sales of products and services and the nature of our business provides us with very little guaranteed or contractual revenue beyond a relatively short time horizon. We depend on repeat customer business as well as our ability to develop new customer business to sustain and grow our revenue. Although our focus on delivering high-quality sales and service has proven to be successful in the past, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to grow or even sustain our current level of revenue in the future. Liquidity – although we generate positive cash flow and have access to a significant amount of additional credit, we cannot be sure that our current liquidity situation will be adequate in future periods. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain our positive cash flow position or to obtain additional credit or raise additional capital which may restrict our ability to operate or to pursue new business opportunities in the future. Stock price – our stock price is affected by a number of factors, including quarterly variations in our financial results. As a result, our stock price is subject to volatility. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 