risk factors listed from time to time in our Reports on Forms 10-Q, 10-K, and in our Annual Reports to Shareholders. PART I The following information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Unless otherwise indicated by the context, we use the terms "Ramtron," "Company," "we," "us," and "our," on the basis of consolidation described in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." Item 1. BUSINESS Ramtron International Corporation ("Ramtron" or the "Company") is a Delaware corporation and was founded in 1984. We are a fabless semiconductor company that designs, develops and markets specialized semiconductor memory, microcontroller and integrated semiconductor solutions used in many markets for a wide range of applications. We pioneered the integration of ferroelectric materials into semiconductor products, which enabled the development of a new class of nonvolatile memory products, called ferroelectric random access memory (FRAM) products. FRAM products merge the advantages of multiple memory technologies into a single device that is able to retain information without a power source, can be read from and written to at very fast speeds, written to many times, consumes low amounts of power and simplifies the design of electronic systems. In many cases, we are the sole provider of FRAM-enabled semiconductor products, which facilitates close customer relationships, long application lifecycles and high-margin sales. We outsource the manufacturing of our products to third party foundries and packaging and test companies, which allows us to focus our internal efforts on product design, testing, marketing and sales. Page-4 RECENT DEVELOPMENTS On July 1, 2005, the Company retired its outstanding 5 year, 5% fixed rate, convertible debentures with Bramwell Capital Corporation, Alexandra Global Master Fund, Ltd. and Infineon Technologies, A.G., which were due in March 2007. The Company paid a total of approximately $4.9 million, including the aggregate principal and an aggregate premium payment representing future interest payments, to retire the debt early. The six-year warrants to purchase approximately 779,000 shares of Ramtron common stock at $3.04 per share that were issued with the debentures remain outstanding. Ramtron took a pre-tax charge of approximately $1.6 million in the third quarter of 2005, of which $1.2 million was non-cash, to account for costs associated with the debt repayment. On July 1, 2005, we finalized the documentation of our $4-million revolving secured credit facility ("New Credit Facility") with Silicon Valley Bank, a subsidiary of Silicon Valley Bancshares. The New Credit Facility provides for a $4-million secured revolving credit facility. The New Credit Facility carries interest at a floating rate equal to the prime lending rate plus 0.50% per annum, a minimum interest rate of 6.00% per year and a term of two years. Security for the credit facility includes all of our assets except for our real estate. The Company is required to comply with certain covenants under the new credit facility, including without limitation, requirements to maintain a minimum net worth and maintain certain leverage ratios, and restrictions on certain actions without the consent of Silicon Valley Bank, such as the disposal and acquisition of its business or property, changes in business, ownership or location of collateral, mergers or acquisitions, investments or transactions with affiliates, and paying subordinated debt. On July 26, 2005, the Company sold its wholly owned subsidiary, Mushkin Inc. The total proceeds from the sale were approximately $1.8 million. The proceeds included cash of $900,000, assignment of accounts receivable of $800,000 and a promissory note for $100,000. In connection with the sale, the Company incurred an impairment charge to goodwill of $3.4 million and to long-lived assets of $359,000. On August 29, 2005, Ramtron acquired Goal Semiconductor Inc. ("Goal"), a privately held, fabless semiconductor manufacturer based in Montreal, Canada, in a cash and stock transaction valued at approximately $7.6 million. Ramtron acquired all of the outstanding capital stock and options of Goal pursuant to Share Purchase Agreement and Stock Option Purchase and Sale Agreements. Ramtron also entered into the Escrow Agreement to provide for a source of recovery for indemnification claims under the Share Purchase Agreement. Page-5 The cash consideration paid for Goal was $2.4 million, which consisted of $800,000 to stockholders pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement and $1,200,000 to 19 individuals pursuant to the Stock Option Purchase and Sale Agreements, and payments for legal fees and other miscellaneous expenses amounting to $0.4 million. For the stock portion of the consideration, Ramtron issued an aggregate of 1,951,389 new shares of its common stock, valued at $5.5 million. Pursuant to the registration rights covenants in the Share Purchase Agreement, Ramtron filed a registration statement to register the Ramtron Shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. On September 15, 2005, Ramtron executed an Amended and Restated Loan Agreement ("Amended Loan Agreement") with Silicon Valley Bank, a subsidiary of Silicon Valley Bancshares. The Amended Loan Agreement provides for a $3 million secured term-loan facility. The Amended Loan Agreement replaces the Company's Loan and Security Agreement dated July 1, 2005. The Amended Loan Agreement provides for interest at a floating rate equal to the prime lending rate plus 1% per annum and a term of 36 months. Security for the Amended Loan Agreement includes all of the Company's assets except for real estate. The Company plans to draw upon term-loan facility for working capital purposes as required. The Company also entered into an Intellectual Property Security Agreement with Silicon Valley Bank that secures the Company's obligations under the Amended Loan Agreement by granting Silicon Valley Bank a security interest in all of the Company's right, title and interest in, to and under its intellectual property. In September 2005, the Company failed to meet the maximum senior leverage ratio covenant and the liquidity coverage covenant pursuant to terms of our loan agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, which caused an event of default on October 31, 2005. This non-compliance was primarily a result of first- quarter 2005 inventory charges taken for product yield issues; the impact of the Goal Semiconductor acquisition on our September 30 cash balance, and changes in the Company's foreign and domestic accounts receivable mix. We obtained a forbearance until December 15, 2005 from Silicon Valley Bank, and we restructured the covenants to better align with the Company's business practices during the forbearance period. On December 30, 2005, the Company entered into a Loan Modification Agreement which completed the restructuring of its Amended and Restated Loan Agreement with Silicon Valley Bank. The Loan Modification Agreement provided for the waiver of the Company's event of default on October 31, 2005, revised the financial covenants to better reflect the Company's operations, and included a provision for the Company's investment in its Canadian acquisition and payments pursuant to the recent mortgage financing of the Company's Colorado Springs facility. In October 2005, Ramtron revised its 2004 Financial Statements and 2005 Financial Statements to reflect Mushkin Inc. as a discontinued operation. On December 2, 2005, Ramtron held its 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, at which time, the Company's 2005 Incentive Award Plan, previously approved by the Company's Board of Directors, was approved by its stockholders. Page-6 The fifth remaining count of our previously disclosed patent interference proceeding with National Semiconductor Corporation was sent to a Special Master for a final ruling. On December 12, 2005, the District Court for the District of Columbia reversed the judgment of the Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences and found that the claims of Ramtron's patent were supported by an enabling disclosure. Thus, Ramtron's patent was found to be entitled to priority over National Semiconductor Corporation's patent application, and pursuant to our agreement with National Semiconductor Corporation, we granted a license with respect to this technology to National Semiconductor Corporation. On December 15, 2005, Ramtron, through its subsidiary, Ramtron LLC, for which Ramtron International Corporation serves as sole member and sole manager, closed a mortgage loan facility with American National Insurance Company. Ramtron LLC entered into a promissory note evidencing the loan with the principal amount of $4,200,000, with a maturity date of January 1, 2016, bearing interest at 6.17%. Ramtron LLC also entered into an for the benefit of American National Insurance Company securing the Company's real estate as collateral for the mortgage loan facility. On December 30, 2005, the Board of Directors of Ramtron approved the immediate acceleration of vesting of unvested and "out-of-the money" non- qualified stock options previously awarded to officers and employees with option exercise prices greater than $2.75. The affected options held by officers and employees had a range of exercise prices between $2.79 and $4.45, with a weighted average exercise price of $3.57. Options exercisable for a total of 849,397 shares were accelerated. No unvested options held by outside directors were accelerated. The closing price per share of the Company's common stock on December 30, 2005 was $2.03. All affected stock options will continue to be governed by their respective original terms and conditions. Each of the Company's executive officers and certain other employees entered into a Resale Restriction Agreement that imposes restrictions on the sale of any shares received through the exercise of accelerated options until the earlier of: the original vesting dates set forth in the option agreement, termination of employment, or in connection with a change in control pursuant to the terms of each individual's change of control agreement. The accelerated options represented approximately 13.7% of the total of all of the Company's outstanding options at December 30, 2005. The accelerated vesting of options is intended to eliminate any future reportable compensation expense relating to the accelerated options upon the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123(R), "Share Based Payment," effective for the Company's fiscal year beginning in the first quarter of 2006. The Company's aggregate pre-tax compensation expense that will be avoided is approximately $1.1 million, of which approximately $650,000 would have been recognized in 2006. On January 13, 2006, Mr. Greg B. Jones entered into a Severance Agreement and General Release and Waiver of Claims upon Mr. Jones's resignation from his position as the Company's President-Technology. Mr. Jones resigned as a director of the Company effective as of that same date. Mr. Jones resigned to pursue other professional and personal interests. Page-7 FINANCIAL INFORMATION BY SEGMENT Following our divestiture discussed in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, our continuing operations are conducted through one business segment, our semiconductor business. Our semiconductor business designs, develops, markets, manufactures specialized semiconductor memories, microcontrollers and integrated semiconductor solutions. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for certain financial information concerning geographic financial information concerning the business of the Company. OVERVIEW OF BUSINESS We are a fabless semiconductor company that designs, develops and markets specialized semiconductor memory, microcontroller, and integrated semiconductor solutions, used in many markets for a wide range of applications. We pioneered the integration of ferroelectric materials into semiconductor products, which enabled the development of a new class of nonvolatile memory products, called ferroelectric random access memory (FRAM). FRAM products merge the advantages of multiple memory technologies into a single device that is able to retain information without a power source, can be read from and written to at very fast speeds, written to many times, consumes low amounts of power and simplifies the design of electronic systems. In many cases, we are the sole provider of FRAM-enabled semiconductor products, which facilitates close customer relationships, long application lifecycles and the potential for high-margin sales. We also integrate analog and mixed-signal functions such as microprocessor supervision tamper detection, timekeeping, and power failure detection on a single chip with our FRAM. This has enabled a new class of products that addresses the growing market need for more efficient and cost effective integrated products. In 2005, we sold our products to over 200 customers primarily for applications in the metering, computing and information systems, automotive, communications, consumer and industrial, scientific and medical markets. We sell our products through a direct sales force and a global network of distributors. We outsource the manufacturing of our products to third party foundries and packaging and test companies, which allows us to focus our internal efforts on product definition, design, testing, marketing and sales. GENERAL INDUSTRY BACKGROUND Semiconductor products are typically classified as analog, digital, or mixed signal. Analog semiconductors are devices that have the ability to sense continuous real-world parameters like voltage, flow, pressure, temperature, velocity, and time. Digital semiconductors, such as memories or microcontrollers, store or process information via circuit-based on and off switches. Digital semiconductors store, process and manipulate data once the analog components have conditioned the inputs or signals. Mixed-signal semiconductors are integrated products that combine analog and digital circuit functions into a single device and are generally considered the most specialized and complex type of semiconductors in the market. Page-8 Memory Market - ------------- Virtually all electronic systems incorporate semiconductor memory to enable and enhance performance. The primary performance characteristics of memory devices include: speed (the amount of time it takes to read and write data from and to the device); density (how much data can be stored in the device); power consumption, (how much power a device consumes when reading or writing data); endurance (how many times data can be written onto a memory device before it wears out); and volatility (whether or not the device can retain data without power). Volatile memory products rely on a random access memory (RAM) architecture, which requires a constant power source to retain data but allows data to be written and re-written quickly onto the device. The most common volatile memories on the market today are dynamic random access memories (DRAM), which are favored by designers for their density, and static random access memories (SRAM), which are favored because of their speed. Nonvolatile memories were originally designed using a read only memory (ROM) architecture, which allows data to be written once and retained even when the power is turned off or lost. Technology advances in ROM-based memories now allow data to be written and erased multiple times as well as to retain data without a power source. Despite these advances, ROM-based devices write operations require a significant amount of power, are slow, and degrade relatively quickly. The most common nonvolatile memory on the market today is electrically erasable programmable read only memory (EEPROM), which is a low density solution that is generally used because of its relative ease-of-use compared to FLASH memory, which is used because of its low cost per bit and high density data storage capability. In an effort to create a nonvolatile memory with high read/write speeds, a hybrid memory, called battery-backed SRAM (BBSRAM) was created. While BBSRAMs allow higher speed data storage, the battery attachment makes the device larger in size, more expensive, and introduces battery-related reliability, lifetime and environmental issues. EEPROM, FLASH, and BBSRAMs, are widely used by system designers and are more or less standardized. As is the case with most commodities, price is the main differentiator. While these products are widely produced and incorporated in many applications, technical limitations such as write speed, power consumption, endurance and ease of use prevent these nonvolatile memory devices from being implemented in certain situations. Due to the large market for semiconductor memory products and the technical limitations of existing nonvolatile memory products, a market opportunity for alternative memory technologies has evolved. To-date, ferroelectric random access memory (FRAM) technology has overcome many of the limitations of traditional nonvolatile memory and has attracted licensed suppliers who, with us, have shipped well over 100 million units. This has made FRAM the most commercially successful of the alternative nonvolatile memory technologies. Other emerging technologies, such as magneto resistive random access memory (MRAM), ovonics and molecular memory, are still in their early stages of development and have yet to demonstrate commercial viability and achieve market acceptance. Page-9 Microcontroller Products - ------------------------ Microcontrollers (MCUs) are highly integrated devices that typically include a central processing unit (CPU), memory, input/output (I/O) ports and timers. Unlike a general-purpose computer, which also includes all of these components, an MCU is designed to control or provide a very specific task within a system. As a result, the parts can be simplified and shrunk to reduce production costs. MCUs are generally segmented by architectures ranging from 4-bit through 32-bit. 4-bit MCUs are relatively inexpensive but usually lack the minimum performance and features required for product differentiation and are typically used only to produce basic functionality in products. 16- and 32-bit architectures are typically higher performance but have historically been considered too expensive for many high-volume applications. As a result, we believe that 8-bit MCUs are generally perceived as the most cost-effective processing solution for high volume requirements. Integration Trend - Mixed-Signal Devices - ---------------------------------------- In a typical system design, analog inputs are gathered by sensing devices and then conditioned for use by digital circuits. Once the analog inputs are converted into digital data by analog-to-digital conversion circuitry, digital devices such as microcontrollers and memory are used to manipulate and store the data, which is used to achieve a desired result or function in the system. Until recently, analog and digital functions were performed by stand-alone components that worked alongside each other within the system. Due to the increasing complexity of products, the advancement of product features and the desire among original equipment manufacturers to decrease the size and cost of electronic systems, the market has progressed toward integrating analog and digital components into stand-alone mixed-signal semiconductor devices. Analog products that are commonly integrated into an electronic system include temperature sensors, op amps, and regulators. This analog circuitry operates in conjunction with digital devices such as memories and microcontrollers. Microcontrollers are digital devices that incorporate many of the same functions as a computer but in a dramatically simplified form. They are typically designed to control or perform very specific tasks in a system. Advances in process technology and design capabilities now allow the integration of analog and digital devices into a single device by either embedding the functions onto a single chip or by combining them in a multi-chip package. Integrating functions in a single device has enabled lower overall system costs while increasing functionality and reducing board space requirements. As a result, many integrated semiconductor solutions generally recognize longer product life cycles and relatively higher product margins. Page-10 OUR PRODUCTS - ------------ We design, develop and market specialized semiconductor memory, microcontroller and integrated semiconductor solutions used by customers for a wide range of applications in the metering, computing and information systems, automotive, communications, consumer and industrial, scientific and medical markets. Our product portfolio is comprised of stand-alone and integrated products and microcontroller devices. We pioneered the use ferroelectric technology to produce nonvolatile semiconductor memory products in commercial volumes. Our products have distinct advantages over incumbent nonvolatile memory devices. FRAM products combine the nonvolatile data storage capability of ROM with the benefits of RAM, which include a high number of read and write cycles, high speed read and write cycles, and low power consumption. Since demonstrating our first product, we have expanded our FRAM product line to include various interfaces and densities, which include industry-standard serial and parallel interfaces; industry standard package types; and 4-kilobit, 16-kilobit, 64-kilobit, 256-kilobit and 1-megabit densities. Our serial and parallel memories contain industry-standard interfaces that are widely used in electronic applications. System designers use serial memories to collect data due to their relative low cost. Serial memories require fewer connections to the host system, and due to their small package footprint, occupy less space on a circuit board. They are slower than other types of memory because they deliver data serially through a single port, which can require a system's processor to wait longer for the data it needs. Our serial FRAM devices are faster than serial EEPROM devices because the fast write speed of FRAM allows more frequent data transfers over the serial bus to the processor. Our parallel FRAM products are drop-in replacements for battery-backed SRAM products (BBSRAM). FRAM parallel products offer comparable features and data retention as BBSRAMs without the requirement of a battery, which increases system reliability and reduces board space. Parallel memory devices transfer data faster than serial memories because they can deliver data through several ports simultaneously. Although parallel memory devices are larger and more costly than serial memory devices, they are well suited for high-performance applications due to their inherent high read and write speed capability. Our standard microcontrollers are cost-effective, 8-bit, microcontrollers that are drop-in replacements for industry standard 8051 MCUs. These products feature memory for programmability and data storage, as well as In-System/In-Application Programming (ISP/IAP) capabilities and standard 8051 peripherals. 8051 refers to an MCU developed by Intel in 1980 for use in embedded products and is one of the most widely used microcontrollers on the market. Page-11 Our integrated FRAM products, called Processor Companions, are single-chip solutions that replace a number of individual system components to reduce cost and board space. The Processor Companion family is the most integrated FRAM product line developed to date and provides on a single chip the most commonly needed system functions for a variety of applications. Processor Companions typically combine nonvolatile FRAM with analog and mixed-signal circuitry such as a real-time clock (RTC), a processor supervisor, and other commonly needed peripheral functions. Processor Companions are available in a variety of memory density and mixed-signal feature configurations. Processor Companions are used in similar applications to our serial and parallel FRAM memories but provide more of the system's functions with a single device. We are currently developing an integrated device that will include a microcontroller, FRAM, and mixed-signal functions in a single package. Our integrated enhanced microcontrollers are feature-rich, highly-integrated mixed-signal 8051 microcontrollers that offer a single-chip solution for a broad range of signal conditioning, data acquisition and control applications. These products include on-chip analog peripherals such as an analog-to-digital (A/D) converter, pulse width modulators (can be used as digital-to-analog (D/A) converters), a voltage reference, a programmable current source, an uncommitted operational amplifier, digital potentiometers and an analog switch, making them complete data acquisition System-on-Chip (SoC) devices. MARKETS ============================================================================= Select Nonvolatile Memory and Integrated Semiconductor Applications - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- Meters Computing and Information Systems ------ --------------------------------- Electric, Gas, Waste RAID systems Taxi Keyboard, video, mouse switches Flow Servers Postage Network attached storage Automated Meter Reading Storage area networks Printers and copiers - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- Communications Automotive -------------- ---------- Short message system phones Restraint systems Cell base stations Smart airbag systems DSL line cards Body controls Portable GPS Car radio/DVD/Navigation systems Instrumentation clusters - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- Consumer Industrial, Scientific and Medical -------- ---------------------------------- Plasma TV Medical instruments LCD TV Test equipment Set top box Motor controls High-tech toys Home automation Video game cartridges RF/ID data logging Gaming machines ============================================================================= Page-12 Our engineering team has helped many customers develop leading-edge products that benefit from our FRAM products' unique technological characteristics, such as fast write speeds, high write endurance, low power, and accelerated time-to-market. The following application examples illustrate the use of our products in certain end markets. Automotive - Electronic systems and semiconductor content in automobiles has increased significantly over the past few years with the advent of more sophisticated safety, entertainment, body control, and telematics systems. In addition, the sensor count in automobiles has grown significantly over the past few years, which is driving the need to process and store more data than ever before. Metering - The need to monitor power usage has become increasingly important for utility companies as fuel prices have increased significantly over the past few years. Worldwide, there is a significant demand for systems that efficiently distribute power to areas of high demand. These trends have driven the need for more sophisticated digital metering products that can constantly track and report power usage data for utility companies. As a result of our success in supplying FRAM products for one of the world's largest digital metering installations, FRAM products are rapidly becoming the favored nonvolatile memory technology for time-of-use and automated meter reading applications. Computing - Computing applications for our products have increased significantly in recent years with a particular emphasis in multi-function printers and copiers, laser and inkjet printers and hard disk array controllers. The high write endurance of our FRAM products is the primary reason multi-function printer and copier manufacturers use FRAM products in their products, while the fast write capability and ability to store information quickly upon power-down is the primary reason hard disk controller manufacturers use our products. Industrial, Scientific and Medical - The industrial, scientific and medical market provides a large opportunity for FRAM products because it is characterized by applications that are subject to unique and demanding operating environments. FRAM products are well suited for these applications due to their inherent high reliability features like high endurance and low power consumption. MANUFACTURING We are a fabless semiconductor manufacturer that designs and develops new products for production by third-party foundries. Our agreements with third-party manufacturers are intended to enable us to avoid the large capital expenditures that would otherwise be required to manufacture our products in commercial volumes. Page-13 Although we have entered into license agreements with Fujitsu, Rohm, Toshiba Corporation (Toshiba), Infineon and Texas Instruments that provide for the potential development and manufacture of FRAM products, Fujitsu is currently the sole manufacturer of our FRAM products. Fujitsu is required to notify us at least two years in advance of any change in its ability, or intention, to supply product wafers to us. Our microcontroller products are manufactured by third party foundries, including Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC), Tower Semiconductor and Dalsa Semiconductor with whom we do not have long-term agreements. We believe that manufacturing capacity for our microcontroller products is readily available for the foreseeable future. In addition, we believe manufacturing capabilities and capacity for integrated products we may develop would be readily accessed. We subcontract with foreign companies to assemble and test our finished products. Manufacturing services performed by such third parties are conducted in accordance with processes designed by us or the third-party manufacturers and are implemented under the supervision of our product engineers or such third-party manufacturers. PATENTS AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. We hold 102 United States patents covering key aspects of our products and technology. These patents will expire at various times between July 2007 and November 2023. We have applied for 5 additional United States patents covering certain aspects of our products and technology. We have also taken steps to apply for patents in jurisdictions outside the U.S. on our products and technology. We hold 4 non-U.S. issued patents and have 8 non-U.S. patent applications pending. One non-U.S. patent is co-owned with Mitsubishi Materials Corporation. Our patents cover the fundamental aspects of FRAM technology, which we believe significantly prohibit other companies from commercializing ferroelectric-based memory and integrated products without a license from us. We use our technological and engineering expertise to develop proprietary technologies for high quality, technologically advanced products that meet the complex and diverse needs of our customers. Our engineers have specific know-how in FRAM technology-based product design. We have licensed our FRAM technology to several companies, including Fujitsu, Toshiba, Samsung Electronics Company, Ltd. (Samsung), Infineon, NEC and Texas Instruments. We also have cross-licensing arrangements with National Semiconductor and Symetrix Corporation. Some of these licensing arrangements provide us with the right under certain conditions to call on the licensee's manufacturing capacity as well as to receive and royalty payments while others include only royalty provisions. Page-14 In April 2004 we entered into an agreement with National Semiconductor to settle a long-standing patent interference dispute, which began in 1991 as a patent interference proceeding that was declared in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in regard to one of our issued U.S. patents. The patent involved covers a basic ferroelectric memory cell design invention. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, we abandoned four of the five claims in our existing patent, which expire in 2007, two of National Semiconductor's patent applications relating to the interference claims were assigned to us and two others were retained by National Semiconductor. In addition, we have agreed to license the existing patent at no cost to National Semiconductor, and we and National Semiconductor have agreed to cross license any and all future patents that may be issued from certain pending applications at no additional cost to either company. As consideration for the assigned patent applications and cross license provisions of the agreement, we will pay National Semiconductor a total of $2.5 million in equal annual installments of $250,000 through 2013. The fifth remaining count of the patent interference proceeding with National Semiconductor Corporation was sent to a Special Master for a final ruling. On December 12, 2005, the District Court for the District of Columbia reversed the judgment of the Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences and found that the claims of Ramtron's patent were supported by an enabling disclosure. Thus, Ramtron's patent was found to be entitled to priority over National Semiconductor Corporation's patent application, and pursuant to our agreement with National Semiconductor Corporation, we granted a license with respect to this technology to National Semiconductor Corporation. SEASONAL NATURE OF BUSINESS We do not consider our operations to be seasonal. CUSTOMERS We serve direct customers worldwide, including OEMs and subcontract manufacturers. Additionally, we serve distribution customers worldwide, through which we indirectly serve a broad base of customers. Our customers include industry leading OEMs in a broad range of industries, such as ENEL Distribuzione SpA, Ricoh, and Ampy Automation; leading subcontract manufacturers, such as Jabil Circuit, Celestica, and Flextronics, who build end-market products incorporating our memory and integrated products; and leading distributors, such as Tokyo Electron Device, Future Electronics, and Polar Star International. In fiscal year 2005, approximately 16% of our product sales were generated from one customer, ENEL Distribuzione SpA (ENEL), which is the leading utility company in Italy. ENEL uses our products in an advanced digital electricity metering product that is being installed throughout Italy in approximately 27-million locations. We expect to complete shipments for the ENEL installation program in 2006, and expect that by the end of second quarter of 2006, sales to ENEL will drop below 10% of our revenue. Page-15 Our sales have been relatively balanced across our major sales regions including the Americas, Europe, Asia and Japan. As a result, we are not particularly vulnerable to regional economic fluctuations in a specific part of the world. For fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003, international sales comprised approximately 90%, 87% and 92%, respectively, of our net revenue. SALES AND MARKETING We use a direct sales force and a global network of distributors to sell our semiconductor products. In many cases, our distributors are responsible for product demand creation through OEM customers who are not directly served by our internal regional sales managers. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 62% of our product sales were to our distributor network, while direct customers accounted for approximately 38% of our revenue. As of December 31, 2005, we employed 25 people in our marketing and sales organization. In addition to our Colorado Springs, Colorado headquarters facility, we maintain full-time sales and customer service personnel in Canada, Japan, Europe, Hong Kong, South Korea, and China. We have distribution and/or representation relationships with more than 60 companies worldwide, including North America, Europe, Japan and Asia. These regionally-focused firms work with our regional sales managers in identifying new customers, providing technical support and other value-added services to customers, such as order processing, local inventory stocking, and management of currency fluctuation risks. BACKLOG The rate of booking new orders varies from month to month and depends on scheduling practices of individual customers. Cyclical industry conditions make it difficult for many customers to enter into long-term, fixed-price contracts. Delivery dates are adjusted at customers' request. For the foregoing reasons and because of the possibility of customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellations of orders without significant penalty, we do not believe that our backlog as of any particular date is firm or that it is a reliable indicator of actual sales for any succeeding period. COMPETITION The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive. We compete with numerous domestic and foreign companies. Our products primarily compete on the basis of price for functionality offered. We may be at a disadvantage in competing with many of these companies who have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources, as well as more diverse product lines that can provide cash flow during downturns in the semiconductor industry. Page-16 We consider our FRAM products to be competitive with existing nonvolatile memory devices such as EEPROM, BBSRAM and Nonvolatile SRAM (NVSRAM) products. Although nonvolatile FLASH memory products are important in the high-density, nonvolatile memory product market, our products do not currently compete in that market. Both low-density and high-density nonvolatile memory products are manufactured and marketed by major corporations possessing worldwide wafer manufacturing and integrated circuit production facilities such as ST-Microelectronics N.V., Atmel Corporation, and by specialized product companies, like, Intersil Corporation, Maxim Integrated and Integrated Silicon Solution Inc. Our standard microcontroller products compete directly with industry standard products offered by established semiconductor manufacturers such as Renasas, Freescale, Microchip, NEC, Atmel, Philips and Zilog. We intend to use our close customer relationships to sell in this intensely competitive environment where we have a proven track record of providing individualized design assistance and after sale support. Due to the more specialized nature of our mixed signal enhanced microcontrollers, they are less susceptible to the same level of competition as our industry standard microcontroller products. Our licensees may market products that compete with our FRAM products. Most of our licensees have the right to manufacture and sell FRAM products, however, with the exception of Fujitsu, we are not aware of any licensees that market competitive FRAM products. Under our agreements with Rohm, Toshiba, Fujitsu, Samsung, Infineon, NEC and Texas Instruments, we granted each of those companies a non-exclusive license to FRAM technology, which includes the right to manufacture and sell products using FRAM technology. Most of these license agreements provide for the continuation of the license rights to our technology and know-how after expiration or termination of the agreements. Competition affecting our FRAM products may also come from emerging alternative nonvolatile technologies such as magnetic random access memory or phase change memory, or other developing technologies. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We use our technological and engineering expertise to develop proprietary technologies for high quality, technologically advanced products that meet the complex and diverse needs of our customers. We intend to continue leveraging and expanding our technological and engineering expertise to develop new proprietary technologies and expand our product offerings. We continue to make additional investments in research and development for technologies and products. Current research and development activities are focused on expanding our product offerings and securing additional foundry capacity to meet our future needs. Page-17 We seek to maintain our leadership role in FRAM technology development by working in cooperation with the world's leading semiconductor manufacturers to further the development of our proprietary FRAM technology. For example, we are working with Texas Instruments under a joint development agreement to demonstrate low-voltage, embedded FRAM technology on an advanced 0.13 micron manufacturing process and below. Under this agreement, we have received certain consideration for a license to our FRAM technology and technical development services. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE Federal, state and local regulations impose various environmental controls on the discharge of chemicals and gases used in our prototype manufacturing and research and development processes. We believe we have taken all necessary steps to ensure that our activities comply with all applicable environmental rules and regulations. We are not party to any known violation of environmental controls. A future failure by us to comply with such environmental rules and regulations regarding the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to substantial liabilities or could adversely affect our limited manufacturing operations. We believe that the risk of a future failure or violation are remote due to the nature of its current operations. EMPLOYEES We have approximately 110 employees, including 44 in research and development, 23 in manufacturing, 25 in marketing and sales, and 18 in administration. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement, nor have we ever experienced any work stoppage. None of our non-executive employees currently have employment contracts or post-employment non-competition agreements. We believe that our employee relations are good. FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for certain financial information concerning geographic area information. AVAILABLE INFORMATION We make available financial information, new releases, news releases and other information on our website at www.ramtron.com. There is a direct link from the website to our Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings via the EDGAR database, where our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports are filed. Such reports are available free of charge on our website via a link to the SEC's website, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports and amendments with or furnish them to the SEC. In addition, such reports are also available free of cost by contacting Investor Relations, 1850 Ramtron Drive, Colorado Springs, Colorado 80921. Stockholders can also obtain such reports directly from the SEC at no charge at the SEC's website (www.sec.gov). Page-18 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We have historically incurred losses from operations since our inception and our achievement of sustained profitability is uncertain. Our ability to achieve and maintain our profitable operations is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, our ability to successfully sell our products at prices that are sufficient to cover our operating costs, to enter into additional technology development and license arrangements, to obtain sufficient contract manufacturing capacity and, if and as may be necessary, to raise additional financing to fund our increased operations. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in addressing such risks successfully. We incurred net losses during 2005 of $6.5 million. We recognized net income of $3.6 million in 2004 for the first time since the Company's inception. We have spent substantial amounts of money in developing our products in our efforts to obtain commercial manufacturing capabilities for those products. Our ability to increase revenue or achieve profitability in the future will depend substantially on our ability to increase sales of our products by gaining new customers and increasing sales to our existing customers, to reduce manufacturing costs, to increase significantly sales of existing products and to introduce and sell new products successfully. We have limited cash flows, and we may have limited ability to raise additional funds to finance our operation. In view of our expected future working capital requirements in connection with the fabrication and sale of our nonvolatile memory, microcontroller and integrated semiconductor products, as well as our projected research and development and other operating expenditures, we may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. We cannot be sure that any additional financing or other sources of capital will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. The inability to obtain additional financing when needed would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results and could adversely affect our ability to continue our business operations. If additional financing is obtained, any issuance of common or preferred stock to obtain funding would result in further dilution of our existing stockholders' interests. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, or if others use our proprietary technology without authorization, our competitive position may suffer. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary technology used in our products. We protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and employee and third party non-disclosure and assignment agreements. We cannot be assured that any of our patent applications will be approved or that any of the patents that we own will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others or be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Page-19 Policing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. In addition, we cannot be certain that we will be able to prevent other parties from designing and marketing semiconductor products or that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire the same or substantially equivalent technologies as ours. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims that result in costly litigation and could harm our business and ability to compete. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, as well as frequent claims and related litigation regarding these patents and other intellectual property rights. In particular, many leading semiconductor memory companies have extensive patent portfolios with respect to manufacturing processes, product designs, and semiconductor memory technology, including ferroelectric memory technology. We may be involved in litigation to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and know-how, to determine the validity of property rights of others, or to defend against claims of invalidity. This type of litigation can be expensive, regardless of whether we win or lose. Also, we cannot be certain that third parties will not make a claim of infringement against us or against our company licensees in connection with their use of our technology. Any claims, even those without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. These royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. A successful claim of infringement against us or one of our semiconductor manufacturing licensees in connection with our use of our technology could harm our business. Earthquakes, other natural disasters and power shortages or interruptions may damage our business. Some of our contract manufacturers' facilities are located near major earthquake faults. If a major earthquake or other natural disaster occurs which damages those facilities or restricts their operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. A major earthquake or other natural disaster near one or more of our major suppliers, like the one that occurred near the manufacturing facility of our FRAM foundry wafer supplier, Fujitsu, Ltd. (Fujitsu), in Iwate, Japan in May 2003, could disrupt the operations of those suppliers, which could limit the supply of our products and harm our business. Our future success depends in part on the continued service of a relatively small number of key design engineering, sales, marketing and executive personnel, and if we are unable to attract additional personnel or retain our key personnel, our business will suffer. Page-20 Our future success depends, among other factors, on the continued service of our key technical and management personnel and on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees. We are particularly dependent on the highly skilled design, process, materials and testing engineers involved in the development and manufacture of our semiconductor products and processes. The competition for these personnel is intense, and the loss of key employees, including executive officers, or our inability to attract additional qualified personnel in the future, could have both an immediate and a long-term adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that we can retain them in the future. In addition, none of our U.S. employees have entered into post-employment, non-competition agreements with us and, therefore, our employees are not contractually restricted from providing services to our competitors. Risks Related to Our Products - ----------------------------- Our products are complex and may contain defects that could lead to product liability, an increase in our costs or a reduction in our revenue. Our products are complex and may contain defects, particularly when first introduced or as new versions are released. If we develop integrated semiconductor products containing functions in addition to memory as planned, the overall complexity of our products will increase substantially. We rely primarily on our in-house testing personnel to design test operations and procedures to detect any defects prior to delivery of our products to our customers. Because our products are manufactured by third parties, should problems occur in the operation or performance of our products, we may experience delays in meeting key introduction dates or scheduled delivery dates to our customers. These defects also could cause us to incur significant re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relations and business reputation problems. Any defects could require product replacement or recall or we could be obligated to accept product returns. Any of the foregoing could impose substantial costs and harm our business. Product liability claims may be asserted with respect to our products. Our products are typically sold at prices that are significantly lower than the cost of the end-products into which they are incorporated. A defect or failure in our product could cause failure in our customer's end-product, so we could face claims for damages that are disproportionately higher than the revenue and profits we receive from the products involved. There can be no assurance that any insurance we maintain will sufficiently protect us from any such claims. Because our products typically have lengthy sales cycles, we experience substantial delays between incurring expenses related to development of our products and the generation of revenue from those products. Page-21 Product sales cycle usually requires more than 18 months to realize volume shipments after we first identify a customer opportunity. We first work with customers to achieve a design "win" (inclusion of our product in the customer's product design), which may take several months or longer. Our customers then complete their product design, testing and evaluation process and begin to ramp-up production, a period that typically lasts an additional six months or longer. As a result, a significant period of time may elapse between our development of product and our realization of revenue, if any, from volume purchasing of our products by our customers. A delay or cancellation of a customer's plans after a design win could significantly adversely affect our financial results because we may have incurred significant expense and generated no revenue. We depend on a small number of suppliers for the supply of our products and the success of our business may be dependent on our ability to maintain and expand our relationships with foundries and other suppliers. We currently rely on a single unaffiliated foundry at Fujitsu to manufacture all of our FRAM products and other contract manufacturers and unaffiliated semiconductor foundries to manufacture our microcontroller and HVDAC products. Reliance on this foundries involves several risks, including capacity constraints or delays in the timely delivery of our products, reduced control over delivery schedules and the cost of our products, variations in manufacturing yields, dependence on the foundry for quality assurance, and the potential loss of production due to seismic activity, weather conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we continuously evaluate sources of supply and may seek to add additional foundry capacity, there can be no assurance that such additional capacity can be obtained at acceptable prices, if at all. We are also subject to the risks of service disruptions and raw material shortages affecting our foundry supplier, which could also result in price increases to us. The occurrence of any supply or other problem resulting from these risks could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. We also rely on domestic and foreign subcontractors for die assembly and testing of products, and are subject to risks of disruption of these services and possible quality problems. We cannot provide any assurance that foundry or packaging and testing services will be available to us on terms and conditions, and at the times, acceptable to us. If we are unable to obtain foundry and packaging and testing services meeting our needs, we may be unable to produce products at the times and for the costs we anticipate and our financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Page-22 To address our FRAM wafer supply concerns, we plan to continue to seek to expand our primary foundry capability at Fujitsu and to acquire secondary foundry capability. To obtain additional manufacturing capacity, we may be required to make deposits, equipment purchases, loans, joint ventures, equity investments or technology licenses in or with wafer fabrication companies. Even if we were able to make such an arrangement, these transactions could involve a commitment of substantial amounts of our capital and technology licenses in return for production capacity. We may be required to seek additional debt or equity financing if we need substantial capital in order to secure this capacity and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such financing on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if we enter into a secondary foundry relationship any new manufacturing capacity is not likely to be available for at least 18 to 24 months after reaching an agreement, due to significant effort required to develop and qualify for manufacturing a FRAM technology process. Our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of Fujitsu as a supplier or our inability to obtain additional foundry capacity. We are a relatively small company with limited resources, compared with some of our current and potential competitors, and we may not be able to compete effectively and increase market share. Our nonvolatile memory, microcontrollers and integrated semiconductor products, which presently account for substantially all of our revenue, compete against products offered by ST Micro, Renasas, Freescale, Microchip, NEC, Atmel, Philips and Zilog as well as specialized product companies like Atmel Corporation, Intersil Corp., Catalyst Semiconductor, Microchip, Maxim, and Integrated Silicon Solution Inc. Our standard microcontroller products compete directly with industry standard products offered by established semiconductor manufacturers such as Renasas, ST Micro, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., Microchip, NEC Corporation (NEC), Atmel and Zilog, as well as any new entrants to the market. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial and personnel resources, better name recognition and a larger base of customers than we have. In addition, many of our competitors have their own facilities for the production of semiconductor memory components or have recently added significant production capacity. As a result, these competitors may have greater credibility with our existing and potential customers. They also may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can to ours. In addition, some of our current and potential competitors have already established supplier or joint development relationships with the decision makers at our current or potential customers. These competitors may be able to leverage their existing relationships to discourage their customers from purchasing products from us or persuade them to replace our products with their products. These and other competitive pressures may prevent us from competing successfully against current or future competitors, and may materially harm our business. Competition could decrease our prices, reduce our sales, lower our gross profits or decrease our market share. Page-23 Emerging technologies and standards may pose a threat to the competitiveness of our products. Competition affecting our FRAM products may also come from alternative nonvolatile technologies such as magnetic random access memory or phase change memory, or other developing technologies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify new product opportunities successfully, develop and bring to market new products, achieve design wins or respond effectively to new technological changes or product announcements by our competitors. In addition, we may not be successful in developing or using new technologies or in developing new products or product enhancements that achieve market acceptance. Our competitors or customers may offer new products based on new technologies, industry standards or end-user or customer requirements, including products that have the potential to replace or provide lower-cost or higher-performance alternatives to our products. The introduction of new products by our competitors or customers could render our existing and future products obsolete or unmarketable. Success of our future products is substantially dependent on widespread market acceptance of FRAM memory products rather than a different industry standard for memory products. Substantially all of our current revenue is from sales of our FRAM stand-alone nonvolatile memory devices or devices containing embedded FRAM nonvolatile memory. Some of our integrated semiconductor memory solutions will likely include FRAM memory. A memory technology other than FRAM nonvolatile memory technology may be adopted as an industry standard. Our competitors are generally in a better financial and marketing position than we are from which to influence industry acceptance of a particular memory technology. In particular, a primary source of competition may come from alternative technologies such as magnetic random access memory or phase change memory devices or technology. To the extent our competitors are able to promote a nonvolatile memory technology other than FRAM as an industry standard; our business will be seriously harmed. Our research and development efforts are focused on a limited number of new technologies and products, and any delay in the development, or the abandonment, of these technologies or products by industry participants, or their failure to achieve market acceptance, could compromise our competitive position. Our FRAM semiconductor memory, microcontroller and integrated semiconductor products are used as components in electronic devices in various markets. As a result, we have devoted and expect to continue to devote a large amount of resources to develop products based on new and emerging technologies and standards that will be commercially introduced in the future. Our research and development expense for the year ended December 31, 2005, was $7.6 million, or 22% of our revenue. A number of large companies are actively involved in the development of new technologies and standards for semiconductor memories. Page-24 Should any of these companies delay or abandon their efforts to develop commercially available products based on new technologies and standards, our research and development efforts with respect to these technologies and standards likely would have no appreciable value. In addition, if we do not correctly anticipate new technologies and standards, or if the products that we develop based on these new technologies and standards fail to achieve market acceptance, our competitors may be better able to address market demand than we would. Furthermore, if markets for these new technologies and standards develop later than we anticipate, or do not develop at all, demand for our products that are currently in development would suffer, resulting in lower sales of these products than we currently anticipate. We cannot be certain that any product we develop for these standards will achieve market acceptance. If we do not continually develop new generations of FRAM and integrated semiconductor products that achieve market acceptance, our revenue may decline. We need to develop new product designs and new process technology and continue to develop our ferroelectric materials and manufacturing processes. We design our FRAM products, which we have manufactured at our contract manufacturer's facilities using 0.5 and 0.35 micron manufacturing processes. We believe that our ability to compete in the markets in which we expect to sell our FRAM, microcontroller and integrated semiconductor products will depend, in part, on our ability to produce products in smaller feature sizes and also our ability to incorporate effectively mixed-signal and other semiconductor functions with our FRAM products. Our inability to successfully produce new generations of FRAM, microprocessor and integrated semiconductor products would harm our ability to compete and our operating results. We have a limited operating history in creating and marketing mixed-signal products and have had very limited revenue from those products. If we fail to introduce new products in a timely manner or are unable to manufacture such products successfully, or if our customers do not successfully introduce new systems or products incorporating our products, or if market demand for our new products does not develop as anticipated, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Risks Related to Our Sales - -------------------------- We are subject to risks relating to product concentration and lack of revenue diversification. Page-25 We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from fewer than 16 products, and we expect these products to continue to account for a large percentage of our revenue in the near term. Continued market support of these products is, therefore, critical to our future success. In addition, substantially all of our FRAM products that we have sold include technology related to one or more of our issued U.S. patents. If these patents are found to be invalid or unenforceable, our competitors could introduce competitive products that could reduce both the volume and price per unit of our products. Our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows could therefore be adversely affected. We must build products based on demand forecasts; if such forecasts are inaccurate, we may incur significant losses. Although we consider the market demand for our products to be less volatile than is the case with standard memory components, we must order products and build inventory substantially in advance of product shipments, and there is a risk that, because customers' requirements for our products is subject to fluctuation, we will forecast incorrectly and produce excess or insufficient inventories of particular products. Our customers' ability to reschedule or cancel orders without significant penalty could adversely affect our liquidity, as we may be unable to adjust our purchases from independent foundries to match such customer changes and cancellations. We have in the past produced excess quantities of certain products, which has had an adverse effect on our results of operations for the period. There can be no assurance that in the future we will not produce excess quantities of any of our products. To the extent we produce excess or insufficient inventories of particular products, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We compete in various markets with our FRAM technology licensees, which may reduce our product sales. We have licensed the right to fabricate products based on our FRAM technology and memory architecture to certain independent semiconductor device manufacturers. Fujitsu, on which we depend for our FRAM wafer supply, markets certain FRAM memory products that compete with certain of our FRAM products. Some of our licensees have suspended or terminated their FRAM initiatives, while others may still be pursuing a possible FRAM-based technology initiative or product development without our knowledge. We expect manufacturers that develop products based on our technology will sell such products worldwide. We are entitled to royalties from sales of FRAM products by some but not all of these licensees, and we have the right under certain of our licensing agreements to negotiate an agreement for a fraction of the licensee's FRAM manufacturing capacity. Our licensees may, however, give the development and manufacture of their own FRAM products a higher priority than ours. Any competition in the marketplace from FRAM products manufactured and marketed by our licensees, could reduce our product sales and harm our operating results. Page-26 We may not be able to replace our expected reduced revenue from ENEL in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our business. In 2005, 2004, and 2003, approximately 16%, 46%, and 60%, respectively, of our FRAM product sales were generated from one customer, ENEL Distribuzione SpA (ENEL) of Italy. Our FRAM product sales to ENEL are expected to end substantially by mid-2006. The reduction of product sales to ENEL, without a corresponding increase in revenue from other customers, may result in significant decreases in our revenue, which would harm our cash flows, operating results and financial condition. We rely on distributors for a substantial portion of our revenue and if our relationships with one or more of those distributors were to terminate, our operating results may be harmed. We market and distribute our products primarily through authorized independent distributors, which typically offer competing products. These distribution channels have been characterized by rapid change, including consolidations and financial difficulties. Distributors have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue in the past. In 2005, approximately 62% of our product sales were generated through distributors. If we were to lose our distributors, we might not be able to obtain other distributors to represent us or new distributors might not have sufficiently strong relationships with the current end customers to maintain our current level of net sales. Additionally, the time and resources involved with the changeover and training could have an adverse impact on our business in the short term. We do not typically enter into long-term arrangements with our distributors and resellers, and we cannot be certain as to future order levels from our distributors and resellers. When we do enter into long-term arrangements, the contracts are generally terminable at the convenience of either party and it may be difficult to replace that source of revenue in the short-term upon cancellation. Our business depends on these third parties to sell our products. As a result, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the loss of one or more of our current distributors and resellers, additional volume pricing arrangements, order cancellations, delay in shipment by one of our distributors or resellers or the failure of our distributors or sellers to successfully sell our products. Failure to manage our distribution channel relationships could impede our future growth. Page-27 The future growth of our business will depend in large part on our ability to manage our relationships with current and future distributors, to develop additional channels for the distribution and sale of our products, and to manage these relationships. As we execute our indirect sales strategy, we must manage the potential conflicts that may arise with our direct sales efforts. For example, conflicts with a distributor may arise when a customer begins purchasing directly from us rather than through the distributor. The inability to successfully execute or manage a multi-channel sales strategy could impede our future growth. Management of our sales channels requires a significant amount of our management's time and system resources to manage properly. If we fail to manage our sales channels, including the sales channels we must develop for current and future products, we will not be able to increase our sales and our results of operations will be materially adversely affected. International sales comprise a significant portion of our product sales, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. For fiscal years 2005, 2004, and 2003, international sales comprised approximately 90%, 87% and 92%, respectively, of our net revenue. The increase in export sales as a percentage of total sales is in part due to an increase in the utilization of contract manufacturing services in Asia by our customers in the U.S. and Europe. We expect that international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of our product sales in the future. As a result of the large foreign component of our revenue, we are subject to a number of risks resulting from such operations. Such risks include political and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, foreign currency fluctuations, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology, tariffs and other barriers and restrictions, and the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. There can be no assurance that such factors will not adversely impact our results of operations in the future or require us to modify our current business practices. The majority of our revenue, expense and capital purchasing activities is transacted in U.S. dollars. However, because a portion of our operations consists of activities outside of the United States, we have commenced certain transactions in other currencies, the Japanese Yen and Canadian dollars. As part of our risk management strategy, we frequently evaluate our foreign currency exchange risk by monitoring market data and external factors that may influence exchange rate fluctuations. As a result, we may in the future engage in transactions involving the short-term hedging of foreign currencies, with maturities generally not exceeding two years to hedge assets, liabilities, revenue and purchases dominated in foreign currencies. Page-28 Our business is also subject to risks generally associated with doing business with foreign subcontractors including, but not limited to foreign government regulations and political and financial unrest which may cause disruptions or delays in shipments to our customers or access to our inventories. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by these or other factors related to our international operations. Risks Related to Our Acquisitions - --------------------------------- Any acquisitions we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. As part of our strategy to increase our revenue and expand our product lines, we continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire other businesses, intellectual property or technologies that would complement our current offerings, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities. We funded our recent acquisition of Goal Semiconductor, Inc. ("Goal") by issuing our common stock and used our available cash resources, including our line of credit. Future acquisitions that we may make or joint ventures that we may enter into with other companies, could require us to incur debt or contingent liabilities or require us to issue equity securities that could cause the trading price of our stock to decline. Our acquisitions, including the acquisition of Goal, and other potential acquisitions that we may make, or joint ventures that we may enter into, entail a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results, including: - - problems integrating the acquired operations, technologies or products with our existing business and products; - - the diversion of management's time and attention from our core business; - - the need for financial resources above our planned investment levels; - - difficulties in retaining business relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired company; - - risks associated with entering markets in which we lack prior experience; - - risks associated with the transfer of rights and licenses of intellectual property; - - the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; and - - the potential impairment of related goodwill and intangible assets. Page-29 We expect that our recent acquisition of Goal will reduce our net income per share and may cause us to incur losses. Goal was not profitable at the time of acquisition, and we expect that the acquisition will result in a decrease in our net income and reduction in our gross margin for the foreseeable future. The acquisition could fail to produce the longer term product synergies and operational benefits that we anticipate and could have other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. As a result of those or other factors, the acquisition may not produce the financial results that we expect and may cause our future financial results to be worse than we would have achieved on a stand-alone basis. Our acquisition of Goal results in increased demands on our management that we may not successfully accomplish. In order to operate successfully as a combined organization, we must employ common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resources practices. The successful and timely design, development, qualification and production of products may be hindered by management obstacles that we face in integrating of Goal. The demands on management resulting from the acquisition may divert their attention from our ongoing operations, causing our results of operation to be adversely affected. The difficulties we face are exacerbated by doing business in a foreign country where the business culture is different from ours and where many communications are conducted in the French language, which our management does not speak fluently. Although we performed due diligence investigation before the acquisition, we may not have identified Goal's material financial reporting weaknesses or deficiencies in financial controls, nor undisclosed liabilities and obligations, which may result in losses and liabilities for which we will not have indemnification. We may also discover that Goal is subject to product and other liabilities that were not disclosed to us and which exceed Goal's shareholders' indemnification obligation to us. Our recourse to the Goal shareholders for most claims we may have under the acquisition agreement for defaults and misrepresentations is limited to $0.5 million, and we have no recourse after one year following the date of acquisition, except for fraud, tax and certain other claims as to certain of the Goal shareholders. If we are required to expend costs in excess of our expectation to implement upgraded internal financial controls systems, or to satisfy liabilities for which we are not indemnified, our financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Page-30 Risks Related to Foreign Operations - ----------------------------------- We may not be successful in managing foreign operations. We have limited experience in operating a business in a foreign country. Foreign operations involve us in a variety of risks, including the following risks that, if not successfully overcome, will materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations: - - unanticipated changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, trade laws, tariffs, export quotas, custom duties or other trade restrictions; - - differing regulations with regard to maintaining operations, products and public information in different languages; - - differing labor regulations, where labor laws are generally more advantageous to employees, compared with the United States; - - more stringent regulations relating to data privacy and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal information; - - greater difficulty in supporting the development and qualification of customer-specific products addressing large markets, which we foresee will be required if our new products are to be marketed in commercial volumes; and - - challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over the larger geographic distances and in a foreign country, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs. Accounting and Regulatory Risks - ------------------------------- Evolving regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and continuing uncertainty. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC regulations as well as the listing standards of The Nasdaq Stock Market, are creating uncertainty for public companies. We continually evaluate and monitor developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This Page-31 could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we have invested resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards. This investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and we may be harmed. Should we, or our independent public accounting firm, determine in future fiscal periods that we have material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, the reliability of our financial reports may be impacted, and our results of operations or financial condition may be harmed and the price of our common stock may decline. We incurred significant inventory valuation adjustments in 2005 and 2004, and we may incur additional significant inventory valuation adjustments in the future. We typically plan our production and inventory levels based on our internal forecasts of customer demand, which are unpredictable even though our products are often specified in our customers' product designs. Our customers' order volumes can fluctuate materially in advance of product shipments. The value of our inventory is dependent on our estimate of future average selling prices, and, if our projected average selling prices are over estimated, we may be required to adjust our inventory value to reflect the lower of cost or market. Recent changes in accounting standards regarding stock option plans could limit the desirability of granting stock options, which could harm our ability to attract and retain employees, and could also negatively impact our results of operations. On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued FASB Statement No. 123R, Share Based Payment, which requires all companies to treat the fair value of stock options granted to employees as an expense. As a result of this standard, effective for periods beginning after January 1, 2006, we and other companies are required to record a compensation expense equal to the fair value of each stock option granted. We are currently assessing our valuation options allowed in this standard. This change in accounting standards reduces the attractiveness of granting stock options because of the additional expense associated with these grants, which would negatively impact our results of operations. Nevertheless, stock options are Page-32 an important employee recruitment and retention tool, and we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel if we reduce the scope of our employee stock option program. Accordingly, even though we have not quantified the dollar amount of this standard at this time, the result will have a negative impact on our earnings starting with the accounting period beginning January 1, 2006. In addition, the new standard could negatively impact our ability to use stock options as an employee recruitment and retention tool in the future. We are subject to environmental laws which are subject to change and may restrict the marketability of certain of our products, which could adversely impact our financial performance or expose us to future liabilities. We are subject to laws and regulations relating to the use of and human exposure to hazardous materials. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to future liabilities or result in the limitation or suspension of the sale or production of product, including without limitation, products that do not meet the various regulations relating to use of lead-free components in products. These regulations include the European Union's Restrictions on Hazardous Substances (RoHS), Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, and the directive on End of Life for Vehicles (ELV); California's SB20 and SB50 which mimic RoHS; and China's WEEE adopted by the State Development and Reform Commission. RoHS is scheduled to take effect on July 1, 2006. New electrical and electronic equipment sold after that date in the European Union may not exceed specified concentration levels of any of the six RoHS substances (lead, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, mercury, PBB, and PBDE) unless the equipment falls outside the scope of RoHS or unless one of the RoHS exemptions is satisfied. Our products as manufactured contain lead, but in ceramic form (the ferroelectric memory capacitor) and at levels below the threshold concentration levels specified by RoHS and similar directives. However, these directives are still subject to amendment and such changes may be unfavorable to our products. Any supply of products that infringe applicable environmental laws may subject us to penalties, customer litigation or governmental sanctions, which may result in financial harm to us. Our business is subject to strict environmental regulations and legal uncertainties, which could impose unanticipated requirements on our business in the future and subject us to liabilities. Federal, state and local regulations impose various environmental controls on the discharge of chemicals and gases used in the manufacturing processes of our third-party foundry and contract manufacturers. Compliance with these regulations can be costly. Increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of semiconductor operations. Any changes in environmental rules and regulations may impose the need for additional investments in capital equipment and the implementation of compliance programs in the future. Page-33 Any failure by us or our foundries or contract manufacturers to comply with present or future environmental rules and regulations regarding the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to serious liabilities or cause our foundries or contract manufacturers to suspend manufacturing operations, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the costs of complying with environmental, health and safety requirements, in the future we may incur costs defending against environmental litigation brought by government agencies and private parties. We may be defendants in lawsuits brought by parties in the future alleging environmental damage, personal injury or property damage. A significant judgment against us could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 