ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before investing in our common stock. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also materially adversely effect our business, financial condition and operating results. A change in our relationship with our major customers could adversely affect our revenues. Historically, a limited number of customers have accounted for a substantial portion of our revenues. If our relationship with one or more of our major customers changes or ends, our sales could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect that we will continue to rely on a limited number of major customers for a substantial portion of our revenues in the future. During the 2008, 2007, and 2006 fiscal years, sales to Walmart accounted for approximately 22%, 23% and 22%, respectively. During the 2008, 2007, and 2006 fiscal years, sales to Sysco accounted for approximately 9%, 9% and 11%, respectively. Currently, we do not have long-term supply agreements with a substantial number of our customers, including Walmart and Sysco. Our exclusive arrangement with Sysco expired on December 31, 2006. There is no guarantee that the Sysco volumes and revenues will continue as they were under the contract. Fluctuations in the cost of raw materials, energy, packaging materials or other items could adversely affect us. The principal raw material in our products is durum wheat. We generally procure durum from North Dakota, Montana, and Canada for our Missouri and South Carolina plants, and we generally procure durum from the southwest section of the U.S for our Arizona plant. The cost of durum wheat represents a substantial portion of our total cost of goods sold and changes in the supply of durum wheat could have a material adverse effect on our operating profit and margins. As durum wheat is used almost exclusively in pasta production and is a narrowly traded, cash-only commodity crop, we have limited means to protect ourselves from price fluctuations. Durum prices have been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. The supply and price of durum wheat in North America and on a global scale is subject to market conditions and is influenced by several factors beyond our control, including: •general economic conditions; •global supply and demand (including acres planted and harvest quality); •natural disasters, insects, plant diseases, and weather conditions; •competition; •trade relations; •governmental programs and regulations; •natural gas costs; and •transportation and fuel cost. We rely on the supply of flexible film, folding cartons and other packaging materials, which represent a significant portion of our cost of goods sold, that fluctuate in price due to market conditions beyond our control. 8 We rely on rail carriers for transportation of durum wheat to our milling facilities, and ocean and truck freight for movement of our finished goods. Fuel costs, which have been and may continue to be volatile, effect our transportation costs for raw materials and finished goods. Fluctuations in the cost of raw materials (including durum wheat ingredients and egg products), energy (including transportation costs), packaging materials, or other items could have a material adverse effect on our operating profit and margins. Historically, changes in sale prices of our pasta products have lagged changes in our materials costs. Furthermore, if the cost of raw materials, energy, packaging materials or other items increase, competitive pressures may limit our ability to raise prices or affect the timing or magnitude of such price increases. Conversely, if the cost of raw materials, energy, packaging materials or other items decrease, competitive pressures may cause us to lower prices before we have fully utilized higher priced inventory or the magnitude of price decreases may exceed the magnitude of the corresponding decrease in raw materials, energy, packaging materials or other costs. Accordingly, fluctuations in the cost or supply of raw materials, energy, packaging materials or other items may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. If our customers curtail their operations, our financial performance may be adversely affected. Due to the highly competitive environment currently existing in the food retailing and foodservice industries, some of our retail and foodservice customers have experienced economic difficulty. In addition, the food retailing industry has experienced consolidation. A number of our customers have been forced to close stores and certain others have sought bankruptcy protection. If a material number of our customers, or any one large customer, closed a significant number of stores, filed for bankruptcy protection, or consolidated operations with another company, these actions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A decline in demand for dry pasta could adversely affect our financial performance. We focus primarily on producing and selling dry pasta. We expect to continue this primary focus. Because of our product concentration, any decline in consumer demand or preference for dry pasta or any other factor that adversely affects the pasta market could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. During the latter half of fiscal year 2004 and continuing in fiscal year 2005, we experienced a significant decline in demand for dry pasta products caused primarily by diet driven changes to consumer preference, which adversely affected our profitability. If demand were to materially decline again, we could experience a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If aggregate production capacity in the U.S. pasta industry increases or is under-utilized, we may have to adopt a more aggressive pricing strategy, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our competitive environment is affected by the relationship between aggregate industry production capacity and aggregate market demand for pasta products. Production capacity above market demand can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to compete effectively with established domestic and foreign producers of pasta products, our financial performance may be adversely affected. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete against numerous well-established national, regional, local and foreign companies in every aspect of our business. Some of our competitors may have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, or more financial or other resources than we do. Our customers may not continue to buy our products and we may not be able to compete effectively with these competitors. 9 If we are unable to manage our production and inventory levels, our ability to operate cost-effectively and to maintain high customer service standards may be adversely affected. Unanticipated fluctuations in demand make it difficult to manage production schedules, plant operations and inventories. Also, customer inventory management systems that are intended to reduce a retailer's inventory investment increase pressure on suppliers like us to fill orders promptly and thereby shift a portion of the retailer's inventory management cost to the supplier. If we overestimate the demand, the result will be the production of excess inventory which could result in markdowns and increased inventory carrying costs. If we underestimate the demand for our products, our customer service standards may suffer as we may be unable to provide adequate supplies of pasta products to retailers in a timely fashion, which may result in loss of sales and/or customers. Our need for substantial capital and our level of indebtedness may restrict our operating and financial flexibility and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Our business has required and will continue to require substantial capital investment. A portion of this investment has been financed through third-party lenders. The amount of debt we carry and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect us in several ways, including: •our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, and general corporate purposes, including strategic acquisitions, may be impaired; •our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business may be limited because a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations may have to be dedicated to the payment of the principal and interest on our indebtedness; •the terms of such indebtedness restrict our ability to pay dividends; •our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business or to reduce our level of indebtedness may be limited because a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations may have to be dedicated to the payment of on-going legal, accounting and other professional fees; •we may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; •the level of debt we carry could restrict our corporate activities, including our ability to respond to competitive market conditions, to provide for capital expenditures beyond those permitted by our loan agreements, or to take advantage of acquisition opportunities and grow our business; and •because substantially all of our assets are now pledged as collateral for our debt, an uncured default could allow our lenders to sell our assets to satisfy our debt obligations. In the event that we fail to comply with the covenants in our current credit facility, or any future loan agreements, there could be an event of default under the applicable instrument. As a result, all amounts outstanding under our current or any future debt instruments may become immediately due and payable. We have used, and may in the future use, interest rate protection agreements covering our variable rate debt to limit our exposure to variable rates. However, we may not be able to enter into such agreements or such agreements may adversely affect our financial performance. If interest rates were to increase significantly or if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, we may not be able to service our debt and may have to refinance all or a portion of our debt, structure our debt differently, obtain additional financing or sell assets to repay such debt. We may not be able to secure such refinancing, additional financing or asset sales on favorable terms or at all. 10 If existing anti-dumping measures imposed against certain foreign imports terminate, we will face increased competition from foreign companies and our profit margins or market share could be adversely affected. Anti-dumping and countervailing duties on certain Italian and Turkish imports imposed by the United States Department of Commerce ("DOC") in 1996 enable us and our domestic competitors to compete more favorably against Italian and Turkish producers in the U.S. pasta market. In September 2007, the U.S. International Trade Commission ("ITC") extended the anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders for an additional five years, through 2011. If the anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders are repealed or foreign producers sell competing products in the United States at prices lower than ours or enter the U.S. market by establishing production facilities in the United States, the result would further increase competition in the U.S. pasta market and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A write-off or write down of our intangible and other long lived assets could adversely affect our results of operations. Our total assets include substantial intangible assets. These intangible assets, resulting primarily from our acquisitions of the Mueller's, Golden Grain/Mission, and seven other pasta brands acquired from Borden Foods, represent the value of our brands. We review our indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. A determination that all or a portion of our intangible assets are not recoverable, although a non-cash charge to operations, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and total capitalization. In fiscal year 2005, we recorded brand impairment expenses of $88.6 million. In fiscal year 2006, we recorded additional brand impairment of $1.0 million and sold brands resulting in a net intangible write-off of approximately $4.7 million. In fiscal year 2008 we recognized additional brand impairments of $3.7 million. The balance of our brands, excluding amortizable intangible brand assets of $1.2 million, at September 26, 2008 was $78.6 million. Our total assets also reflect substantial long lived fixed assets for property, plant and equipment. We review long-lived assets, including amortizable intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. We evaluate recoverability of assets to be held and used by comparing the carrying amount of an asset to future net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell. A determination requiring write off of a significant portion of fixed assets, although a non-cash charge to operations, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and total capitalization. At September 26, 2008, long lived fixed assets, including amortizable intangible brand assets of $1.2 million, totaled $304.7 million. Because we produce food products, we may be subject to product liability claims and have costs related to product recalls. We may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated, infested, misbranded or mislabeled. We may also be subject to claims or lawsuits if the consumption of any of our products causes injury. A widespread product recall or a significant product liability judgment against us could cause products to be unavailable for a period of time and result in a loss of consumer confidence in our food products and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We carry insurance against most of these matters; however, our insurance coverage may not be adequate. The cost of commercially available insurance has increased significantly and such insurance may not be available in the future at prices that we can afford. In addition, because we often indemnify our customers for costs related to 11 product recalls, we could be subject to additional expenses that may not be covered by insurance and could have a material adverse impact on business, results of operations, and financial condition. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations and prospects depend in large part on the performance of our senior management team. We may not be able to find qualified replacements for any of these individuals if their services were no longer available. We do not currently maintain key person life insurance on any member of our senior management team. Except for Mr. John P. Kelly, our President and Chief Executive Officer, we do not provide employment agreements to our executive officers. If our competitors develop or acquire advanced technology, our financial performance may be adversely affected. If other pasta producers acquire equipment similar to our equipment or more advanced equipment that provides greater efficiencies, what we believe to be our current competitive advantage might be diminished or eliminated, potentially causing pressure on profit margins or reducing our market share. Erosion of this advantage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Disruptions in transportation of raw materials or finished products or increases in transportation costs could adversely affect our financial results. Durum wheat is shipped by rail to our production facilities in Missouri and South Carolina under annually negotiated contracts or market tariff rates. We also ship semolina, milled and processed at the Missouri facility, to our South Carolina facility. There is no assurance that the transportation costs will remain the same under these contracts as rail carriers have experienced recent fuel cost inflation which they are passing on to their customers. An extended interruption in our ability to ship durum wheat by railroad to the Missouri or South Carolina plants, or semolina to our South Carolina facility, could cause us to incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with the distribution of our pasta to our customers. If we are unable to provide adequate supplies of pasta products to our customers in a timely fashion due to such delays, we may subsequently lose sales. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the inflationary pressure of higher fuel costs and continued increases in transportation costs of our finished products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our international business may not be successful. We operate a pasta-producing facility in Italy. We do not have the same competitive scale of operations or historic relationships with the European trade or European supply base in these overseas markets that we do in the U.S. There are several risks inherent in doing business on an international level. These risks include: •export and import restrictions; •tariffs and other trade barriers; •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; •managing regulatory requirements across multiple foreign jurisdictions; •fluctuations in currency exchange rates and inflation risks; 12 •seasonal fluctuations in business activity in other parts of the world; •changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets; •potentially adverse tax consequences; and •difficulty in securing or transporting raw materials or transporting finished product. Any of these risks could adversely impact the success of our international operations. If our international revenues are inadequate to offset the expense of maintaining foreign operations, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Our competitive position and financial results and condition could be adversely impacted if we are unable to protect our intellectual property. Our brands are important to our success and our competitive position. Our actions to establish and protect our brands and other proprietary rights may be inadequate to prevent imitation of our products by others. Moreover, we may face claims by third parties that we violate their intellectual property rights. Any litigation or claims against us, whether or not successful, could result in substantial cost, divert management's time and attention from our core business, significantly harm our reputation, our business and results of operations. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. We are subject to laws and regulations administered by federal, state, and other governmental agencies relating to the operation of our production facilities, the production, packaging, labeling and marketing of our products and pollution control, including air emissions. Any determination by the FDA or other agencies that our facilities are not in compliance with applicable regulations could interfere with the continued manufacture and distribution of the affected products and, in some cases, might also require the recall of previously distributed products. Any such determination could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of our voluntary disclosure to the DOC of incorrect data previously reported by us in connection with the DOC anti-dumping proceeding regarding pasta imported from Italy through our Italian subsidiary, Pasta Lensi, S.r.l., the DOC has initiated a change circumstances review of Pasta Lensi and has reinstated Pasta Lensi in the existing antidumping order at a 45.6% cash deposit rate, thereby requiring us to deposit this percentage of the value of subject imports with the government. The preliminary determination applies, on a prospective basis, to all imports of subject products from and after February 22, 2008. A cash deposit rate of 45.6% would have a significant adverse impact to our working capital position. We have appealed this determination. Additional information is provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading "Legal Proceedings—Department of Commerce Matter." Under environmental laws, we are exposed to liability primarily as an owner and operator of real property, and as such, we may be responsible for the clean-up or other remediation of contaminated property. Environmental laws and regulations can change rapidly and we may become subject to more stringent environmental laws and regulations in the future that may be retroactively applied to earlier events. In addition, compliance with more stringent environmental laws and regulations could involve significant capital investments. Additional information is provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading "Business—Governmental Regulation; Environmental Matters." 13 Our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Several of our former officers and a former director were the subject of legal actions related to our past accounting issues. These legal actions remain unresolved. Under Delaware law, our articles and bylaws, and certain indemnification agreements, we may have an obligation to indemnify our current and former directors and officers in relation to these matters. Some of these indemnification obligations may be covered by certain insurers under applicable directors' and officers' liability policies. Our applicable directors' and officers' liability policies for the policy year during which these matters arose has been depleted with the final court approval of the federal securities class action lawsuit and the pending settlement of the derivative cases, thereby leaving certain additional indemnity obligations as uninsured. If we incur significant uninsured indemnity obligations, these obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to establish and maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we may have material misstatements in our financial statements and we may not be able to report our financial results in a timely manner. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"), management has conducted an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. Management has identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of September 26, 2008. A description of the material weakness is included under the heading "Controls and Procedures" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have developed and are implementing specific measures to remedy the identified material weakness and other deficiencies that existed at the end of fiscal year 2008. There can be no assurance as to when the remediation plan will be fully implemented. Until our remediation efforts are completed, management will continue to devote significant time and attention to these efforts. There will also continue to be an increased risk that our future financial statements could contain errors that will be undetected. Reputational risks and other risks relating to negative publicity. We may be subject to negative publicity resulting from our past accounting issues and related investigations, settlement of litigation, and guilty pleas of our former officers in connection with our past accounting issues. While we believe our customers focus primarily on the quality of our products and service levels, this negative publicity could affect our relationship with our current customers and suppliers if they lose confidence in our ability to fulfill our commitments, and could affect our ability to develop relationships with potential customers and suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to a consent injunction and agreement which, if we violate, could require us to pay substantial fines or other penalties or otherwise have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to a consent injunction with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and a settlement agreement with the United States Attorney's Office for the Western District of Missouri on behalf of the Department of Justice ("DOJ"), violation of either of which could have a material adverse effect on us. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, the SEC and the DOJ announced the completion of their investigation of us and resolution of outstanding investigative matters. Under the terms of a settlement with the SEC, we agreed to a consent injunction requiring future compliance with federal securities laws. Under an agreement with the DOJ, we agreed to continue to cooperate with the DOJ. To the extent we fail to comply with either agreement, we could be subject to additional sanctions 14 or fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A more detailed description of this matter is included under the heading "Legal Proceedings" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Pending legal actions claims could have a material adverse effect on us. We have been subject to a number of legal actions related to our restatement, all of which have been settled. While these matters have been settled in principle, the settlement remains subject to final court approval. As a result of these actions and the related settlements, our directors' and officers' liability policies for the applicable policy year have been depleted. Therefore, any additional claims, as well as defense of pending claims against former officers and directors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. We are unable at this time to estimate our potential liability in such matters. The defense of these lawsuits may consume substantial time, and they may divert management's attention and resources from our ordinary business operations. More information regarding these lawsuits is included under the heading "Legal Proceedings" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We could face adverse consequences as a result of our late SEC filings. During August 2008, we became current in our SEC reporting obligations. However, we will not be eligible to use a "short form" registration statement on Form S-3 until we have been current in our periodic reporting obligations for twelve months, which could adversely affect the timing and increase the cost of raising capital through the issuance and sale of equity. Our ability to pay dividends to shareholders is restricted by factors including contractual provisions and our financial performance. We have not paid dividends since June 2005 and do not anticipate we will pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that future free cash flow will be used principally to fund interest expense and repayment of debt. Payment of dividends is restricted by provisions in our credit facility. A significant percent of our outstanding voting stock is held by a concentrated number of investors. A majority of our outstanding voting stock is held by a limited number of investors. As a result, the decision of relatively small number of shareholders could have a substantial impact on the trading price of our stock. Continued concentrated ownership could result in fewer shares being available to be traded in the market, resulting in reduced liquidity. In addition, a decision by one or more large investor to liquidate its holdings could adversely affect the trading price of our stock. So long as a majority of our shares are held by a small number of investors, it is easier for any one shareholder to join with other shareholders to attempt to effect control of our company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 