ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before investing in our common stock. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also materially adversely effect our business, financial condition or operating results. A change in our relationship with our major customers could adversely affect our revenues. Historically, a limited number of customers have accounted for a substantial portion of our revenues. If our relationship with one or more of our major customers changes or ends, our sales could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We expect that we will continue to rely on a limited number of major customers for a substantial portion of our revenues in the future. During the 2009, 2008, and 2007 fiscal years, sales to Wal-Mart accounted for approximately 25%, 22% and 23%, respectively. During the 2009, 2008, and 2007 fiscal years, sales to Sysco accounted for approximately 8%, 9% and 9%, respectively. Currently, we do not have long-term supply agreements with a substantial number of our customers, including Wal-Mart and Sysco. Fluctuations in the cost of raw materials, energy, packaging materials or other items could adversely affect us. The principal raw material for the bulk of our products is durum wheat. We generally procure durum from North Dakota, Montana, Canada, and the southwest section of the U.S. for our Missouri and South Carolina plants, and we generally procure durum from the southwest section of the U.S. for our Arizona plant. The cost of durum wheat represents a substantial portion of our total cost of goods sold and changes in the supply of durum wheat could have a material adverse effect on our operating profit and margins. As durum wheat is used almost exclusively in pasta production and is a narrowly traded, cash-only commodity crop, we have limited means to protect ourselves from price fluctuations. Durum prices have been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. The supply and price of durum wheat in North America and on a global scale is subject to market conditions and is influenced by several factors beyond our control, including: •general economic conditions; •global supply and demand (including acres planted and harvest quality and quantity); •natural disasters, insects, plant diseases, and weather conditions; •competition for raw materials from other users of durum wheat; •trade relations; •governmental programs and regulations; •natural gas costs, as natural gas is the primary component of anhydrous ammonia fertilizer used in the production of durum wheat; and •transportation and fuel costs. We rely on the supply of flexible film, folding cartons and other packaging materials, which represent a significant portion of our cost of goods sold, that fluctuate in price due to market conditions beyond our control. We rely on rail carriers for transportation of durum wheat to our milling facilities, and ocean and truck freight for movement of our finished goods. Fuel costs have been and may continue to be 8 Table of Contents volatile. Increases in fuel costs would likely result in increased transportation costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Historically, changes in sale prices of our pasta products have lagged changes in our materials costs. Furthermore, if the cost of raw materials, energy, packaging materials or other items increase, competitive pressures may limit our ability to raise prices or affect the timing or magnitude of such price increases. Conversely, if the cost of raw materials, energy, packaging materials or other items decrease, competitive pressures may cause us to lower prices before we have fully utilized higher priced inventory or the magnitude of price decreases may exceed the magnitude of the corresponding decrease in raw materials, energy, packaging materials or other costs. Accordingly, fluctuations in the cost or supply of raw materials (including durum wheat ingredients), energy (including utility and transportation costs), packaging materials or other items may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. If our customers curtail their operations, our financial performance may be adversely affected. Due to the highly competitive environment, combined with macro-economic challenges existing in the food retailing and foodservice industries, some of our retail and foodservice customers have experienced economic difficulty. In addition, the food retailing industry has experienced consolidation. Certain of our customers have been forced to close stores and certain others have sought bankruptcy protection. If a material number of our customers, or any one large customer, closed a significant number of stores, filed for bankruptcy protection, or consolidated operations with another company, these actions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. A decline in demand for dry pasta could adversely affect our financial performance. We focus primarily on producing and selling dry pasta. We expect to continue this primary focus. Because of our product concentration, any decline in consumer demand or preference, including diet driven changes, for dry pasta or any other factor that adversely affects the pasta market could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If aggregate production capacity in the U.S. pasta industry increases or is under-utilized, we may have to adopt a more aggressive pricing strategy, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our competitive environment is affected by the relationship between aggregate industry production capacity and aggregate market demand for pasta products. Production capacity above market demand can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are not able to compete effectively with established domestic and foreign producers of pasta products, our financial performance may be adversely affected. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete against numerous well-established national, regional, local and foreign companies in every aspect of our business. Some of our competitors may have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, or more financial or other resources than we do. Our customers may not continue to buy our products and we may not be able to compete effectively with these competitors. Our advantage relative to customer brands may be diminished if competitors obtain the technology necessary to efficiently manufacture and distribute large numbers of stock-keeping units (SKU). We believe our success in the customer brand market is attributable, in part, to our ability to efficiently manage the manufacture and distribution of large numbers of SKUs. Currently, we handle approximately 3,700 SKUs, most of which are related to customer brands. The technology and 9 Table of Contents know-how to manage large numbers of SKUs is not proprietary. If a competitor were to invest the technology and know-how to develop efficient SKU management, this portion of our business may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. If we are unable to manage our production and inventory levels, our ability to operate cost-effectively and to maintain high customer service standards may be adversely affected. Unanticipated fluctuations in demand make it difficult to manage production schedules, plant operations and inventories. Also, customer inventory management systems that are intended to reduce a retailer's inventory investment increase pressure on suppliers like us to fill orders promptly and thereby shift a portion of the retailer's inventory management cost to the supplier. If we overestimate the demand, the result will be the production of excess inventory which could result in markdowns and increased inventory carrying costs. If we underestimate the demand for our products, our customer service standards may suffer as we may be unable to provide adequate supplies of pasta products to retailers in a timely fashion, which may result in loss of sales and/or customers. Our need for substantial capital and our level of indebtedness may restrict our operating and financial flexibility and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Our business has required and will continue to require substantial capital investment. A portion of this investment has been financed through third-party lenders. The amount of debt we carry and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect us in several ways, including: •our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, and general corporate purposes, including strategic acquisitions, may be impaired; •our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business may be limited because a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations may have to be dedicated to the payment of the principal and interest on our indebtedness; •the terms of such indebtedness restrict our ability to pay dividends; and •the level of debt we carry could restrict our corporate activities, including our ability to respond to competitive market conditions, to provide for capital expenditures beyond those permitted by our loan agreements, or to take advantage of acquisition opportunities and grow our business. In the event that we fail to comply with the covenants in our current credit facility, or any future loan agreements, there could be an event of default under the applicable instrument. As a result, all amounts outstanding under our current or any future debt instruments may become immediately due and payable. We have used, and may in the future use, interest rate protection agreements covering our variable rate debt to limit our exposure to variable rates. However, we may not be able to enter into such agreements or such agreements may adversely affect our financial performance. If interest rates were to increase significantly or if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, we may not be able to service our debt and may have to refinance all or a portion of our debt, structure our debt differently, obtain additional financing or sell assets to repay such debt. We may not be able to find alternative financing at the maturity of our credit facility. Our U.S. credit facility matures in March 2011 and we may not be able to secure refinancing or alternative financing at commercially reasonable terms. Any financing obtained may contain restrictive covenants limiting our flexibility related to operations, capital expenditures, capital structure or other matters. 10 Table of Contents Changes in our capital structure could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results. Our current credit facility expires in March 2011. Prior to that time, we may decide, for strategic or other reasons, to terminate our credit facility and implement a new capital structure. Our new capital structure may result in a new credit facility, issuance of public debt, issuance of convertible debt, issuance of new shares, the repurchase of existing shares, other alternatives, or a combination of alternatives. Implementation of a new capital structure bears various risks, including risks related to new covenants, restrictions on specified business activities, potential mis-alignment with strategic initiatives, and a potential decrease in future financial flexibility. If existing anti-dumping measures imposed against certain foreign imports terminate, we will face increased competition from foreign companies and our profit margins or market share could be adversely affected. Anti-dumping and countervailing duties on certain Italian and Turkish imports imposed by the United States Department of Commerce ("DOC") in 1996 enable us and our domestic competitors to compete more favorably against Italian and Turkish producers in the U.S. pasta market. In September 2007, the U.S. International Trade Commission ("ITC") extended the anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders for an additional five years, through 2012. If the anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders are repealed or foreign producers sell competing products in the United States at prices lower than ours or enter the U.S. market by establishing production facilities in the United States, the result would further increase competition in the U.S. pasta market and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. A write-off or write down of our intangible and other long-lived assets could adversely affect our results of operations. Our total assets include substantial intangible assets representing the acquisition date fair value of acquired brand names. We review these intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. A determination that all or a portion of our intangible assets are not recoverable, although a non-cash charge to operations, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or total capitalization. At October 2, 2009, the balance of our intangible brand assets was $79.1 million. Our total assets also reflect substantial long-lived fixed assets for property, plant and equipment. We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. We evaluate recoverability of assets to be held and used by comparing the carrying amount of an asset to future net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell. A determination requiring write off of a significant portion of fixed assets, although a non-cash charge to operations, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or total capitalization. At October 2, 2009, net long-lived fixed assets totaled $291.2 million. Because we produce food products, we may be subject to product liability claims and have costs related to product recalls. We may need to recall some of our products if they are misbranded or mislabeled or become adulterated or infested. We may also be subject to claims or lawsuits if the consumption of any of our products causes injury. A widespread product recall or a significant product liability judgment against us could cause products to be unavailable for a period of time and result in a loss of consumer and customer confidence in our food products and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We carry insurance against most of these matters; however, our insurance coverage may not be adequate. 11 Table of Contents The cost of commercially available insurance has increased significantly and such insurance may not be available in the future at prices that we can afford. In addition, because we often indemnify our customers for costs related to product recalls, we could be subject to additional expenses that may not be covered by insurance and could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team or other key subject matter expert could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations and prospects depend in large part on the performance of our senior management team. We may not be able to find qualified replacements for any of these individuals if their services were no longer available. We do not currently maintain key person life insurance on any member of our senior management team. Except for Mr. John P. Kelly, our President and Chief Executive Officer, we do not provide employment agreements to our executive officers. In addition to the executive team there are a limited number of subject matter experts in key functions that could impair the effective operations of the business or reporting requirements if appropriate replacements could not be found in a timely fashion. If our competitors develop or acquire advanced technology, our financial performance may be adversely affected. If other pasta producers acquire equipment similar to our equipment or more advanced equipment that provides greater efficiencies, what we believe to be our current competitive advantage might be diminished or eliminated, potentially causing pressure on profit margins or reducing our market share. Erosion of this advantage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Disruptions in transportation of raw materials or finished products could adversely affect our financial results. Durum wheat is shipped by rail to our production facilities in Missouri and South Carolina under annually negotiated contracts or market tariff rates. From time to time we also ship semolina, milled and processed at the Missouri facility, to our South Carolina facility. There is no assurance that the transportation costs will remain the same as fuel costs are volatile and, under these contracts, rail carriers have the ability to pass through certain increases in fuel cost. An extended interruption in our ability to ship durum wheat by railroad to the Missouri or South Carolina plants, or semolina to our South Carolina facility, could cause us to incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with the distribution of our pasta to our customers. If we are unable to provide adequate supplies of pasta products to our customers in a timely fashion due to such delays, we may subsequently lose sales. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Disruptions in utilities at our facilities would impair our ability to produce products and could adversely affect our financial results. Each of our production facilities relies heavily on the local electric, gas and water utilities for supply. If there are significant and lengthy interruptions in any of these utilities, our ability to meet customer shipments could be impaired. The disruptions could come from natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other causes. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Disruptions or failures in the software we use in our operations, or in the supporting hardware, could adversely affect our financial results. We rely on a number of key systems to produce, ship, invoice and account for our products. In the event of a material failure of or disruption to one or more of these systems, including disruptions caused by the failure of the supporting hardware, our ability to accomplish one or more of these functions could be impaired. If the cause of the failure or disruption cannot be remedied in a short period of time, we would not be able to produce or ship products. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our international business may not be successful. We operate a pasta-producing facility in Italy. We do not have the same competitive scale of operations or historic relationships with the European trade or European supply base in overseas markets that we do in the U.S. There are several risks inherent in doing business on an international level. These risks include: •export and import restrictions; •tariffs, trade duties, and other trade barriers; •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; •managing regulatory requirements across multiple foreign jurisdictions; •fluctuations in currency exchange rates and inflation risks; •seasonal fluctuations in business activity in other parts of the world; •changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets; •potentially adverse tax consequences; and •difficulty in securing or transporting raw materials or transporting finished product. Any of these risks could adversely impact the success of our international operations. If our international revenues are inadequate to offset the expense of maintaining foreign operations, our business or results of operations could be harmed. Our competitive position and financial results and condition could be adversely impacted if we are unable to protect our intellectual property. Our brands are important to our success and our competitive position. Our actions to establish and protect our brands and other proprietary rights may be inadequate to prevent imitation of our products by others. Moreover, we may face claims by third parties that we violate their intellectual property rights. Any litigation or claims against us, whether or not successful, could result in substantial cost, divert management's time and attention from our core business, or significantly harm our reputation, our business or our results of operations. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. We are subject to laws and regulations administered by federal, state, and other governmental agencies related to the operation of our production facilities, the production, packaging, labeling and marketing of our products and pollution control, including air emissions. Any determination by the FDA or other agencies that our facilities are not in compliance with applicable regulations could interfere with the continued manufacture and distribution of the affected products and, in some cases, 13 Table of Contents might also require the recall of previously distributed products. In addition, we could become subject to increased regulatory oversight related to ensuring a secure national food chain and, as a result, could incur material costs to comply with additional testing protocols, precertification of shipments, or other procedures required by such regulations. Any such determination or change in regulation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Under environmental laws, we are exposed to liability primarily as an owner and operator of real property and, as such, we may be responsible for the clean-up or other remediation of contaminated property. Environmental laws and regulations can change rapidly and we may become subject to more stringent environmental laws and regulations in the future that may be retroactively applied to earlier events. In addition, compliance with more stringent environmental laws and regulations could involve significant capital investments. Additional information is provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading "Business—Governmental Regulation; Environmental Matters." We are subject to a consent injunction and agreement which, if we violate, could require us to pay substantial fines or other penalties or otherwise have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to a consent injunction with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and a settlement agreement with the United States Attorney's Office for the Western District of Missouri on behalf of the Department of Justice ("DOJ"), violation of either of which could have a material adverse effect on us. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, the SEC and the DOJ announced the completion of their investigation of us and resolution of outstanding investigative matters. Under the terms of a settlement with the SEC, we agreed to a consent injunction requiring future compliance with federal securities laws. Under an agreement with the DOJ, we agreed to continue to cooperate with the DOJ. To the extent we fail to comply with either agreement, we could be subject to additional sanctions or fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our ability to pay dividends to shareholders is restricted by factors including contractual provisions and our financial performance. We have not paid dividends since June 2005. We anticipate that future free cash flow will be used principally to fund interest expense and repayment of debt. Payment of dividends is restricted by provisions in our current credit facility. A significant percent of our outstanding voting stock is held by a limited number of institutional investors. A significant percent of our outstanding voting stock is held by a limited number of institutional investors. As a result, the decision of relatively small number of shareholders could have a substantial impact on the trading price of our stock. Continued concentrated ownership could result in fewer shares being available to be traded in the market, resulting in reduced liquidity. In addition, a decision by one or more large investor to liquidate its holdings could adversely affect the trading price of our stock. So long as a significant percentage of our shares are held by a small number of investors, it is easier for any one shareholder to join with other shareholders to attempt to effect control of our company. The integration of acquired businesses may require significant resources and may not be successful. In the future, we may consider opportunities to expand our business through the acquisition of other companies, assets, or product lines. If we are unsuccessful in executing the integration of acquired companies, assets, or product lines, or if the integration is more difficult than anticipated, we may experience disruptions to our operations. A difficult or unsuccessful integration could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Risks that may affect our ability to successfully integrate and to fully realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition include: •diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; •adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers; •increasing the scope and complexity of our operations; and •conforming standards, processes, information technology systems, procedures, and controls of the acquired business with our operations ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 