ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before investing in our common stock. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks relating to lack of current information about our business. Material information about our current operating results and financial condition is unavailable because of the delay in filing with the SEC our 2005, 2006 and 2007 annual reports and quarterly reports for any quarter through the date of this filing. While we have released periodic updates regarding our liquidity, revenue performance and certain financial data, investors have not had access to complete information about the current state of our business. When this information becomes available to investors, it may result in an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Reputational risks and other risks relating to negative publicity. We may be subject to negative publicity resulting from our accounting restatement and related investigations and litigation. While we believe our customers focus primarily on the quality of our products and service levels, this negative publicity could affect our relationship with our current customers and suppliers if our customers and suppliers lose confidence in our ability to fulfill our commitments, and could affect our ability to develop relationships with potential customers and suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to ongoing governmental investigations which could require us to pay substantial fines or other penalties or otherwise have a material adverse effect on us. We have been responding to subpoenas from the Enforcement Division of the SEC relating to our accounting practices, financial reporting, proxy solicitation and other matters in connection with an ongoing formal, non-public investigation by the SEC staff. While we are cooperating with this investigation, adverse developments in connection with the investigation, including any expansion of scope, could negatively impact us and could divert the efforts and attention of our management team from our ordinary business operations. The United States Attorney's Office for the Western District of Missouri ("DOJ") has been coordinating with the SEC staff on this matter. The nature of the relief or remedies the SEC or the DOJ may seek cannot be predicted at this time, but may include monetary penalties and/or injunctive relief, either of which could have a material adverse effect on us. A more 7 detailed description of these investigations is included under the heading "Legal Proceedings" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are currently cooperating with the DOJ on a matter related to the prior revocation of the anti-dumping orders with respect to our Italian subsidiary, Pasta Lensi, S.r.l. The DOJ may take action related to this matter that could have a material adverse effect on us. A more detailed description of this matter is included under the heading "Legal Proceedings" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The efforts of our current management team and our Board of Directors to manage our business have been hindered at times by their need to spend significant time and effort to resolve issues related to our accounting restatement and matters under investigation. To the extent our management team and our Board of Directors will be required to devote significant attention to these matters in the future, this may have, at least in the near term, an adverse effect on operations. Pending civil litigation and related claims could have a material adverse effect on us. A number of lawsuits have been filed against us and certain of our current and former officers and directors relating to our accounting restatement. These suits include our court approved settlement in the federal class action securities lawsuit and derivative cases currently pending in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Missouri, the Circuit Court of Jackson County, Missouri, and the Delaware Chancery Court for which we have an agreement in principle to settle, subject to court approval. Our directors' and officers' liability policies for the applicable policy year will be depleted as a result of these lawsuits, and as a result, any such continuing or additional claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. We are unable at this time to estimate our potential liability in such matters. The defense of these lawsuits may consume substantial time, and they may divert management's attention and resources from our ordinary business operations. More information regarding these lawsuits is included under the heading "Legal Proceedings" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Several of our current and former directors, officers and employees are the subject of lawsuits and investigations relating to our accounting restatement. Under Delaware law, our articles and bylaws, and certain indemnification agreements, we may have an obligation to indemnify our current and former officers and directors in relation to these matters. Some of these indemnification obligations may be covered by certain insurers under applicable directors' and officers' liability policies. Our applicable directors' and officers' liability policies for the policy year during which these matters arose has been depleted with the final court approval of the federal securities class action lawsuit and the proposed settlement of the derivative cases, thereby leaving certain additional indemnity obligations as uninsured. If we incur significant uninsured indemnity obligations, these obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Ongoing SEC review may require us to amend our public disclosures further. We may receive comments from the staff of the SEC relating to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other periodic filings. As a result, we may be required by the SEC to amend this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other reports filed with the SEC in order to make adjustments or additional disclosures. We could face additional adverse consequences as a result of our late SEC filings. We will continue to incur additional expenses until we are current in our SEC reporting obligations. Until we are current in our SEC reporting obligations, we will be precluded from registering any securities with the SEC. In addition, we will not be eligible to use a "short form" registration statement on Form S-3 until we have been current in our periodic reporting obligations for twelve months, which would increase the cost of raising capital through the issuance and sale of equity. 8 If we fail to establish and maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we may have material misstatements in our financial statements and we may not be able to report our financial results in a timely manner. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"), management has conducted an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. Management has identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of September 29, 2006. A description of these material weaknesses, is included under the heading "Controls and Procedures" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These and other previously reported historical material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting contributed to the restatements to our consolidated financial statements for fiscal year 2004 and prior periods. Each of our material weaknesses resulted in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement would not be prevented or detected. As a result, we performed extensive additional work to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements. Even with this additional work, given the numerous material weaknesses identified, there is a risk of additional errors not being prevented or detected which could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in additional restatements. We have developed and are implementing specific measures for remedying all of the identified material weaknesses and other deficiencies that existed at the end of fiscal year 2006. There can be no assurance as to when the remediation plan will be fully implemented. Until our remediation efforts are completed, management will continue to devote significant time and attention to these efforts. There will also continue to be an increased risk that we will be unable to timely file future periodic reports with the SEC, that a default under our debt agreements could occur as a result of further delays and that our future financial statements could contain errors that will be undetected. In the future, we may identify further material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that we have not discovered to date. In addition, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain adequate disclosure controls procedures over our financial reporting processes. A change in our relationship with our major customers could adversely affect our revenues. Historically, a limited number of customers has accounted for a substantial portion of our revenues. If our relationship with one or more of our major customers changes or ends, our sales could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect that we will continue to rely on a limited number of major customers for a substantial portion of our revenues in the future. During the fiscal years ended September 29, 2006, September 30, 2005 and October 1, 2004, sales to Wal-Mart accounted for approximately 22%, 21%, and 18%, respectively, and sales to Sysco accounted for approximately 11% of our revenues for each of the fiscal years listed. Currently, we do not have long-term supply agreements with a substantial number of our customers, including Wal-Mart and Sysco. Our exclusive arrangement with Sysco expired on December 31, 2006. There is no guarantee that the Sysco volumes and revenues will continue as they were under the contract. Cost increases in raw materials, energy or packaging materials could adversely affect us. Increases in the cost of raw materials (including durum wheat ingredients and egg products), energy (including transportation costs) or packaging materials could have a material adverse effect on our operating profit and margins unless and until we are able to pass the increased cost along to our customers. Historically, changes in sale prices of our pasta products have lagged changes in our materials costs. Competitive pressures may also limit our ability to raise prices or affect the timing or magnitude of such price increases in response to increased raw materials, energy, packaging materials or other costs. Accordingly, we do not know whether, or the extent to which, we will be able to offset raw materials, energy, packaging materials or other cost increases with increased product prices. In addition, a consequent increase in pricing could cause a reduction in both industry and our own sales volumes. The principal raw material in our products is durum wheat. The cost of durum wheat represents a substantial portion of our total cost of goods sold. Durum wheat is used almost exclusively in pasta production and is a narrowly traded, cash-only commodity crop. Our commodity procurement and pricing practices are intended to reduce the risk of durum wheat cost increases on our profitability, but by forward procurement of our durum needs, we may 9 temporarily affect our ability to benefit from possible durum wheat cost decreases. In 2006, durum prices in North America escalated from recent historical levels and then stabilized at the higher pricing levels. In the third quarter of fiscal year 2007 and continuing into fiscal year 2008, durum prices sharply escalated and have risen to price levels not previously experienced. The supply and price of durum wheat in North America and on a global scale is subject to market conditions and is influenced by several factors beyond our control, including: • general economic conditions; • global supply and demand (including acres planted and harvest quality); • natural disasters, insects, plant diseases, and weather conditions; • competition; • trade relations; • governmental programs and regulations; • natural gas costs; and • transportation and fuel cost. While we procure durum directly from North Dakota, Montana, and Canada for our Missouri and South Carolina plants, our Arizona plant is highly dependent on durum from the southwest section of the U.S. Adverse market conditions, including supply constraints caused by weather or other conditions could have a material adverse effect on our operating profit and margins. We also rely on the supply of plastic, corrugated and other packaging materials (a significant portion of our cost of goods sold), which fluctuate in price due to market conditions beyond our control. We also rely on rail carriers for transportation of durum wheat to our milling facilities and ocean and truck freight for movement of our finished goods. Beginning in fiscal 2008, fuel costs escalated sharply, impacting our transportation costs for raw materials and finished goods. If we are not able to offset these costs through increased efficiencies or pricing, we could experience additional adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If our customers curtail their operations, our financial performance may be adversely affected. Due to the highly competitive environment currently existing in the food retailing and foodservice industries, some of our retail and foodservice customers have experienced economic difficulty. In addition, the food retailing industry has experienced consolidation. A number of our customers have been forced to close stores and certain others have sought bankruptcy protection. If a material number of our customers, or any one large customer, closed a significant number of stores, filed for bankruptcy protection, or consolidated operations with another company, we could be materially adversely affected. A decline in demand for dry pasta could adversely affect our financial performance. We focus primarily on producing and selling dry pasta. We expect to continue this primary focus. Because of our product concentration, any decline in consumer demand or preference for dry pasta or any other factor that adversely affects the pasta market could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. During the latter half of fiscal year 2004 and continuing in fiscal year 2005, we experienced a significant decline in demand for dry pasta products caused primarily by diet driven changes to consumer preference, which adversely affected our profitability. If demand were to materially decline again, we could experience additional material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If aggregate production capacity in the U.S. pasta industry increases or is under-utilized, we may have to adopt a more aggressive pricing strategy, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our competitive environment depends on the relationship between aggregate industry production capacity and aggregate market demand for pasta products. Production capacity above market demand can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 If we are not able to compete effectively with established domestic and foreign producers of pasta products, our financial performance may be adversely affected. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete against numerous well-established national, regional, local and foreign companies in every aspect of our business. Our customers may not continue to buy our products and we may not be able to compete effectively with all of these competitors. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories, and greater brand recognition and financial and other resources than we do. Our direct competitors include: • U.S. pasta producers, including Barilla, Ebro Puleva/New World Pasta Company, Dakota Growers Pasta Company, Philadelphia Macaroni Co. Inc. and A. Zerega's Sons, Inc.; • Foreign pasta producers, including Barilla, Rummo, De Cecco and Ebro Puleva; • U.S. food processors that produce pasta internally as an ingredient for use in food products, including Kraft Foods, ConAgra, Campbell Soup Company and Stouffers Corp.; and • Foreign food processors, including Pasta Foods, food brokers and Italian pasta manufacturers. If we are unable to manage our production and inventory levels, our ability to operate cost-effectively and to maintain high customer service standards may be adversely affected. Unanticipated fluctuations in demand make it difficult to manage production schedules, plant operations and inventories. Also, customer inventory management systems that are intended to reduce a retailer's inventory investment increase pressure on suppliers like us to fill orders promptly and thereby shift a portion of the retailer's inventory management cost to the supplier. Any production of excess inventory to meet anticipated demand could result in markdowns and increased inventory carrying costs. Any temporary plant suspensions or shutdowns may cause inventory shortfalls. In addition, if we underestimate the demand for our products, we may be unable to provide adequate supplies of pasta products to retailers in a timely fashion, and may consequently lose sales. If product availability issues result in our not maintaining high customer service standards, our customers may not continue to purchase our products. Our need for substantial capital and our level of indebtedness may restrict our operating and financial flexibility and could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Our business required a substantial capital investment, which we financed through third-party lenders and public equity offerings. The amount of debt we carry and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect us in several ways, including: • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, and general corporate purposes, including strategic acquisitions, may be impaired; • our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business may be limited because a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations may have to be dedicated to the payment of the principal and interest on our indebtedness; • the terms of such indebtedness restrict our ability to pay dividends; • our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business or to reduce our level of indebtedness may be limited because a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations may have to be dedicated to the payment of on-going legal, accounting and other professional fees; • we may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; 11 • the level of debt we carry could restrict our corporate activities, including our ability to respond to competitive market conditions, to provide for capital expenditures beyond those permitted by our loan agreements, or to take advantage of acquisition opportunities and grow our business; and • because substantially all of our assets are now pledged as collateral for our debt, an uncured default could allow our lenders to sell our assets to satisfy our debt obligations. In the event that we fail to comply with the covenants in our current credit facility, or any future loan agreements, there could be an event of default under the applicable instrument. As a result, all amounts outstanding under our current or any future debt instruments may become immediately due and payable. We have used, and may continue to use, interest rate protection agreements covering our variable rate debt to limit our exposure to variable rates. However, we may not be able to enter into such agreements or such agreements may adversely affect our financial performance. If interest rates were to increase significantly or if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, we may not be able to service our debt and may have to refinance all or a portion of our debt, structure our debt differently, obtain additional financing or sell assets to repay such debt. We may not be able to affect such refinancing, additional financing or asset sales on favorable terms or at all. If existing anti-dumping measures imposed against certain foreign imports terminate, we will face increased competition from foreign companies and our profit margins or market share could be adversely affected. Anti-dumping and countervailing duties on certain Italian and Turkish imports imposed by the DOC in 1996 enable us and our domestic competitors to compete more favorably against Italian and Turkish producers in the U.S. pasta market. In September 2007, the U.S. International Trade Commission ("ITC") extended the antidumping and countervailing duty orders for an additional five years, through 2011. If the anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders are repealed or foreign producers sell competing products in the United States at prices lower than ours or enter the U.S. market by establishing production facilities in the United States, the result would further increase competition in the U.S. pasta market. We may be unable to compete effectively with these competitors. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A write-off of our intangible and other long lived assets could adversely affect our results of operations. Our total assets reflect substantial intangible assets. The intangible assets represent the value of our brands and trademarks resulting primarily from our acquisitions of the Mueller's, Golden Grain/Mission, and seven other pasta brands acquired from Borden Foods. We review our indefinite-lived assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. When future operating performance of one or more of our acquired brands falls significantly below current or expected levels, we record an impairment expense. A determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of our intangible assets, although a non-cash charge to operations, would have a material negative effect on our results of operations and total capitalization. In fiscal year 2005, we recorded brand impairment expenses of $88.6 million. In fiscal year 2006, we recorded additional brand impairment of $1.0 million and sold brands resulting in a net intangible write-off of approximately $4.7 million. The intangible balance at September 29, 2006 was $82.8 million. Our total assets also reflect substantial long lived fixed assets for property, plant and equipment. We review long-lived assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. We evaluate recoverability of assets to be held and used by comparing the carrying amount of an asset to future net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell. A determination requiring write off of a significant portion of fixed assets, although a non-cash charge to operations, would have a material negative effect on our results of operations and total capitalization. At September 29, 2006 and September 30, 2005, long lived fixed assets totaled $324.5 million and $360.7 million, respectively. In fiscal year 2006, we recorded charges to pre-tax income of $22.3 million, primarily related to the closure and sale of the Kenosha, Wisconsin facility. 12 Because we produce food products, we may be subject to product liability claims and have costs related to product recalls. We may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated, infested, misbranded or mislabeled. We may also be subject to claims or lawsuits if the consumption of any of our products causes injury. A widespread product recall or a significant product liability judgment against us could cause products to be unavailable for a period of time and result in a loss of consumer confidence in our food products and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We carry insurance against most of these matters; however, our insurance coverage may not be adequate. The cost of commercially available insurance has increased significantly and such insurance may not be available in the future at prices that we can afford. In addition, because we often indemnify our customers for costs related to product recalls, we could be subject to additional expenses and any significant expenses not covered by insurance would negatively impact our operating results. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations and prospects depend in large part on the performance of our senior management team. We may not be able to find qualified replacements for any of these individuals if their services were no longer available. We do not currently maintain key person life insurance on any member of our senior management team. While we maintain a Severance Plan and a long-term equity program for employees, we do not provide employment agreements to our executive officers, except for the agreement with Mr. John P. Kelly our President and Chief Executive Officer. If our competitors develop or acquire advanced technology, our financial performance may be adversely affected. If other pasta producers acquire equipment similar to our equipment or more advanced equipment that provides greater efficiencies, what we believe to be our current competitive advantage might be diminished or eliminated, potentially causing pressure on profit margins or reducing our market shares. Erosion of this advantage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Disruptions in transportation of raw materials or finished products or increases in transportation costs could adversely affect our financial results. Durum wheat is shipped by rail to our production facilities in Missouri and South Carolina. We have one rail contract that will expire in July 2008. For other rail carriers that we utilize, we negotiate annual pricing arrangements or are subject to applicable tariff rates. There is no assurance that the transportation costs will remain the same under these arrangements when renewed as rail carriers have experienced recent fuel cost inflation which they are passing on to their customers. We also have a rail contract to ship semolina, milled and processed at the Missouri facility, to our South Carolina facility. An extended interruption in our ability to ship durum wheat by railroad to the Missouri or South Carolina plants, or semolina to our South Carolina facility, could cause us to incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with the distribution of our pasta to our customers. If we are unable to provide adequate supplies of pasta products to our customers in a timely fashion due to such delays, we may subsequently lose sales. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the inflationary pressure of higher fuel costs and continued increases in transportation costs of our finished products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our international business may not be successful. We operate a pasta-producing facility in Italy. We do not have the same competitive scale of operations or historic relationships with the European trade or European supply base in these overseas markets that we do in the U.S. There are several risks inherent in doing business on an international level. These risks include: • export and import restrictions; • tariffs and other trade barriers; 13 • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • managing regulatory requirements across multiple foreign jurisdictions; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and inflation risks; • seasonal fluctuations in business activity in other parts of the world; • changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • difficulty in securing or transporting raw materials or transporting finished product. Any of these risks could adversely impact the success of our international operations. If our international revenues are inadequate to offset the expense of maintaining foreign operations, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Our competitive position and financial results and condition could be adversely impacted if we are unable to protect our intellectual property. Our brand trademarks are important to our success and our competitive position. Our actions to establish and protect our brand trademarks and other proprietary rights may be inadequate to prevent imitation of our products by others. Moreover, we may face claims by third parties that we violate their intellectual property rights. Any litigation or claims against us, whether or not successful, could result in substantial cost, divert management's time and attention from our core business, significantly harm our reputation, our business and results of operations. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. We are subject to laws and regulations administered by federal, state, and other governmental agencies relating to the operation of our production facilities, the production, packaging, labeling and marketing of our products and pollution control, including air emissions. Any determination by the FDA or other agencies that our facilities are not in compliance with applicable regulations could interfere with the continued manufacture and distribution of the affected products and, in some cases, might also require the recall of previously distributed products. Any such determination could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of our voluntary disclosure to the DOC of incorrect data previously reported by us to the DOC in connection with the DOC anti-dumping proceeding regarding pasta imported from Italy through our Italian subsidiary, Pasta Lensi, S.r.l., the DOC has initiated a change circumstances review of Pasta Lensi and has reinstated Pasta Lensi in the existing antidumping order at a 45.6% cash deposit rate. The preliminary determination applies, on a prospective basis, to all imports of subject products from and after February 22, 2008. A cash deposit rate of 45.6% would have a significant adverse impact to our working capital position. We have appealed this determination. At the time of our disclosure to the DOC, we also provided this information to the DOJ. Our disclosure of such information could result in additional actions by the DOC and/or the DOJ taking action that could have a material adverse effect on us. Additional information is provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading "Legal Proceedings - Department of Commerce matter." Under environmental laws, we are exposed to liability primarily as an owner and operator of real property, and as such, we may be responsible for the clean-up or other remediation of contaminated property. Environmental laws and regulations can change rapidly and we may become subject to more stringent environmental laws and regulations in the future that may be retroactively applied to earlier events. In addition, compliance with more stringent environmental laws and regulations could involve significant capital investments. Additional information is provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading "Business - Governmental Regulation; Environmental Matters." 14 The suspension and delisting of our common stock from the NYSE could adversely affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. As a result of the delay in filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other SEC periodic and annual reports, our common stock has been delisted from the NYSE. We currently are quoted under the symbol ("AITP") on the Pink Sheets, an electronic quotation service for securities traded over-the-counter. As a result, there may be significantly less liquidity in the market for our common stock. In addition, our ability to raise additional necessary capital through equity financing, and attract and retain personnel by means of equity compensation, may be impaired. Furthermore, we may experience decreases in institutional and other investor demand, analyst coverage, market-making activity and information available concerning trading prices and volume, and fewer broker-dealers may be willing to execute trades with respect to our common stock. The delisting may also decrease the attractiveness of our common stock and cause the trading volume of our common stock to decline, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. We intend to seek to be re-listed on a securities exchange when we become current in our SEC reporting. There can be no assurance whether we will satisfy the standards for listing on an exchange or that an exchange will approve our listing. Nor can there be any assurance at this time when a re-listing would occur. Continuing to be quoted only on Pink Sheets could adversely affect the trading market - and potentially the market price - of our common stock. Our ability to pay dividends to shareholders is restricted by factors including contractual provisions and our financial performance. We have not paid dividends since June 2005 and do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that future free cash flow will be used principally to fund interest expense and repayment of debt. Payment of dividends is restricted by provisions in our credit facility. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 