Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to a number of risks, including but not limited to the following: Risks Related to Operating Our Business The demand for our products is influenced by general economic conditions and may be adversely affected by general economic downturns or declines in construction activity. Our products are sold in the home improvement and new home construction markets. These markets are subject to significant fluctuations in activity and periodic downturns caused by general economic conditions, as has been the case since mid-2006, which contributed substantially to the decline in our revenues from $98 million in 2006 to $82 million in 2007 and to the resulting net losses we experienced. Slowdowns in the economy or construction activity may result in a reduction of the demand for our products and adversely affect our profitability. A worsening of the current economic climate, including further deterioration of the credit markets and/or consumer confidence, will negatively impact the Company’s sales and profitability. The loss of one or more of our key customers could cause a substantial reduction in our revenues and profits. We could be materially adversely affected if we were to lose one or more of our large existing customers. Our principal customer for our decking material is Weyerhaeuser, which accounted for 75% and 81% of our sales in 2007 and 2006, respectively. A few large door and window construction companies have historically purchased substantially all of our industrial component products. A loss of any one of our large customers would adversely affect our sales and profitability. We may be unable to secure an adequate quantity of quality raw materials at economical prices. Our products are constructed primarily from scrap wood fiber and scrap polyethylene. The markets for such scrap materials are dynamic. The global demand for these materials has increased significantly and we expect demand to continue to increase. The largest component of our raw material costs is scrap polyethylene. The price that we must pay for these materials is related to the market prices of natural gas and petroleum, which have been rising and volatile in recent years. Our future profitability is contingent on us being able to manage raw material costs under these circumstances. Weather Sales of decking and accessories are subject to weather and seasonality trends associated with outdoor construction. Our current product mix is sold year round but experiences significant higher retail sales during the second and third quarters which run from April through September. Thus, adverse or bad weather during the first or fourth quarters could result in a negative impact on sales. High fuel prices Near record gasoline and diesel prices may reduce consumers’ disposable income unless driving is curtailed, substitutions are made, or fuel prices retreat. This may substantially reduce funds available for home improvement or remodeling. 11 Table of Contents We are highly leveraged and if we are unable to comply with certain debt covenants, our financial position and operations could be adversely affected. Our $24.7 million outstanding bond agreements, including our 2003 bonds and our $13.5 million of new bond indebtedness incurred in December 2007 for the development of a new facility in Oklahoma, contain certain financial covenants. The 2003 bonds included the following covenants at December 31, 2007: (1) a current ratio of not less than 1.00 to 1.00, (2) that not more than 10% of accounts payable be in excess of 75 days past the invoice date, (3) that not more than 20% of accounts receivable be in excess of 90 days past the invoice or billing date (unless contested in good faith or written off), (4) a requirement that we maintain a long-term debt service coverage ratio for the preceding four quarters of at least 2.00 to 1.00 and (5) a debt-to-equity ratio of not more than 3.00 to 1.00 as of any year-end. Our 2007 bonds have substantially the same covenants as our 2003 bonds, except that the accounts payable percentage is 20% and the debt service coverage ratio requirement is 1.5 to 1 through December 31, 2008, and moves to 2 to 1 beginning with the quarter ended March 31, 2009. We were not in compliance with the accounts payable and debt service coverage ratio covenants at December 31, 2007; however, the debt service coverage covenant was waived by the bondholder as of December 31, 2007 through, and including, March 31, 2008, and the accounts payable covenant was waived by the bondholder as of December 31, 2007 through, and including, December 31, 2008. In September 2007, the Company renewed its $15.0 million bank line of credit through June 2008. The revolving credit facility includes covenants substantially similar to those under our 2003 bond agreements and customary restrictions on dividends and the incurrence of additional debt or liens, among other matters. The bank has waived any past noncompliance with those covenants in connection with the September 2007 renewal through June 2008. There is no assurance that we will be able to comply with these debt covenants in the future, or that the bondholder or bank lender will waive or modify the covenants in the future. If we are unable to comply with any of the covenants or obtain a waiver or modification of the covenants in the future, except the debt service coverage covenant, then the bond debt, in the amount of $24.7 million at December 31, 2007, or bank loan, in the amount of $12.3 million at December 31, 2007, could immediately become due and payable, the bondholder or bank lender could foreclose on the property used to secure the debt, which consists of substantially all of our material operating assets, and the bondholder could claim our revenues pledged as part of the bond agreement. If we are unable to comply with the debt service covenant, then we could be required to retain a consultant to make recommendations to increase the debt service coverage ratio to required levels, and to follow those recommendations. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our business resources may become strained and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Though our sales decreased $15.6 million in 2007, we increased our sales by $10.5 million in 2006, $23.7 million in 2005 and $20.1 million in 2004. Our products have seen significant growth, and our customers have significant established expansion plans. We expect significant future growth. This growth may provide challenges to our organization and may strain our management and operations. We expect to expand our manufacturing capabilities and to automate while we continue to become more efficient with our facilities. Our ability to effectively manage growth depends on our success in attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel and our ability to finance and implement additional production equipment and manufacturing facilities. We may be unable to accurately predict the amount of time or resources that will be required to effectively manage any anticipated or unanticipated growth in our business. We may not be able to attract, hire and retain sufficient personnel or acquire and implement sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet our needs. If we cannot scale our business appropriately, maintain control over expenses, or otherwise adapt to anticipated and unanticipated growth, our business resources may become strained, we may not be able to deliver products in a timely manner and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our growth is limited by the availability of human capital resources. Future profitable growth will require us to recruit and retain qualified associates. We have recently hired a new President and named a new V.P. of Operations, both of whom have significant prior industry experience; however, we compete with many larger companies in the labor market, many of whom offer more attractive compensation packages than we are able to 12 Table of Contents economically provide. Though we have adopted equity compensation plans to aid in our efforts to recruit and retain qualified associates, our compensation offerings may not be as attractive as our competitors’ and the accounting treatment for such equity plans results in a reduction in our earnings. We have recently been sued by plaintiffs alleging defects in our decking products We have recently been sued by two separate groups seeking class action status and alleging defects in our decking products that make them susceptible to mold or mildew growth. Although the Company denies the allegations and intends to vigorously defend itself, the costs of litigation is always high and can strain the resources of and an unfavorable litigation outcome could have a material adverse affect on the Company. See Item 103 — “Legal Proceedings.” Fire disruptions may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Our raw materials and manufacturing processes involve a greater than average risk of fire loss or disruption. Through the Company’s history, we have experienced several fires, some of which severely disrupted our manufacturing operations. There was an accidental fire at our Junction, Texas facility in March 2003, which caused substantial damage and temporarily shut down plant operations. Although we have increased security and increased fire protection equipment at our facilities, another major fire could occur and materially adversely affect our operations. Our strategy of using recycled plastic and waste wood to create a competitive cost advantage involves significant risks, the occurrence of which may materially adversely affect our profitability. Our business strategy is to provide an environmentally friendly product at a competitive price. To achieve our business objectives we must recycle plastic and process waste wood on a cost-effective basis and efficiently convert these materials into high-quality finished goods. This strategy involves significant risks, including the risks that: • Our profitability may be materially diminished. The intrinsic variability of our raw material sources can result in considerable reduction in our operating rates and yields, which may more than offset any savings we realize from the purchase price of the materials. • We may not produce a sustainable return on investment. Because our production model requires backward integration in plastic recycling operations, as well as customized solutions for material preparation, compounding and extrusion, our model is significantly more capital intensive on a per-unit-basis than the models of our typical competitors. Our plants must convert our raw materials at high rates and net yields to generate the profit margins and cash flows necessary to sustain our business. • We may be limited in the markets in which we can effectively compete. Successfully expanding our business beyond decking would require applying our formulation and process technology to increasingly more challenging applications, such as high-end railing systems and fencing. The greater complexity and tighter design tolerances of such profiles require a level of process control that is more stringent than the level involved in deck board production. Our raw materials and process technology may not permit us to develop new applications on a cost-effective basis. Environmental regulation exposes us to potential liability for response costs and damages to natural resources. We are subject to federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations. The environmental laws and regulations applicable to our operations establish air quality standards for emissions from our manufacturing operations, govern the disposal of solid waste, and regulate wastewater and storm water discharge. As is the case with manufacturers in general, we may be held liable for response costs and damages to natural resources if a release or threat of release of hazardous materials occurs on or from our properties or any associated offsite disposal location, or if contamination from prior activities is discovered at any properties we own or operate. Identification of certain weaknesses in our internal controls. Our management identified three material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, two of which were also cited weaknesses in our internal controls as of December 31, 2006. Management concluded that the Company did not have an adequate process in place to assess potential impairment of fixed assets, that the Company’s inventory costing system was not adequately documented nor were there adequate procedures for an independent review of the costing analysis to ensure completeness and accuracy of 13 Table of Contents the calculated costs, all of which were rated as weaknesses last year and which we have been in the process of remediating. Additionally, at the entity level, the Company has not properly allocated resources to ensure that necessary internal controls are implemented and followed throughout the Company. We are in the process of remediating the weaknesses in our internal controls; however, there can be no assurance at this time that our remediation plans and the actions we take will effectively remediate the material weaknesses. Maintaining product innovation at competitive costs With ever increasing competition and with an increasing number of new products entering the marketplace, we must maintain the quality and performance of our products while constantly addressing the needs of our customers in the marketplace. This involves offering a broader selection of high quality products on a routine basis, while being able to maintain acceptable manufacturing rates and yields at competitive costs. If we can not maintain acceptable manufacturing costs in producing new products in a timely manner, our costs may be higher. This could impede our introduction of new products and negatively affect our profitability. Maintaining product quality and performance at acceptable costs Our ability to grow and continue to gain market share is dependent on our ability to maintain the quality and performance of our products at reasonable costs. We have invested heavily in technology and infrastructure since inception to process and reformulate recycled materials in to high quality building products. However, if we should experience any negative problems or perceptions with product quality, it could have a negative impact on net sales. We were recently sued in federal district court in Washington in regard to an alleged surface cleaning defect with one of our product lines. See Item 103 — “Legal Proceedings.” Lack of Product Diversification Our current product lines are based exclusively on our wood/plastic composite formulas and manufacturing process for AERT composite products. With an increasing number of PVC and other non wood alternatives entering the marketplace, any market shift away from wood/plastic composites in general could have a reduced or negative impact on our sales growth. Risks Related to Financing Our Business Our indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to compete and produce net income As of December 31, 2007 we had $49 million of total indebtedness. This will require a substantial portion of our cash flow to be used for interest and debt repayment. If we cannot attain substantial improvements in operating efficiencies and cost reductions, our ability to generate net income will be greatly impaired. We may have insufficient working capital to achieve our growth objectives. At December 31, 2007, we had a working capital surplus of $2,226,615 and at December 31, 2006, we had a working capital deficit of $3,466,130. The prior year’s working capital deficit was the result of losses from operations, our decision to finance capital projects with cash generated from operations, and our need to fund rapid growth in sales. Our current positive working capital is attributable to new preferred equity and bond financings we completed in the fourth quarter of 2007, aggregating $23.5 million. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain a working capital surplus. We will likely need to raise additional capital in the future. If we need additional funding, but fail to obtain it, we may not be able to adequately develop and commercialize our products or improve or expand our operations. We may need to raise additional outside financial resources in the future to effectively compete in the composite building materials marketplace, finance increased inventories, execute our current and future business plans and/or further develop and commercialize our current and future product offerings. Inability to raise sufficient outside capital would likely materially adversely impact our business, operations and profitability. Our failure to maintain Nasdaq listing requirements could cause our common stock to be delisted. On December 21, 2007, our Class A common stock closed at $0.78 and at that date had closed below $1.00 per share for thirty consecutive trading days resulting in a notice to us on that day that we had failed to satisfy the Nasdaq minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share and could be subject to Nasdaq delisting procedures if such noncompliance 14 Table of Contents is not rectified on or before June 18, 2008. If the stock price does not increase to $1.00 or more for at least 10 consecutive trading days to re-establish compliance with Nasdaq’s listing requirement, the Company intends to present a plan to NASDAQ for additional time to regain compliance and/or seek stockholder approval for a reverse stock split to re-establish compliance. The loss of our Nasdaq listing would likely reduce trading activity in our common stock and make it more difficult for stockholders to sell their shares, and the threat of such a result could have a negative or dampening effect on our trading activity until such matter is resolved. Any decreased trading activity and added difficulty in trading our stock could have a negative impact on our stock price. In addition, failure to maintain our Nasdaq listing, or to then be listed on the OTC Bulletin Board, would also result in the Series D preferred stockholders having an option to require us to redeem all of the outstanding Series D preferred stock at a price equal to 120% of its stated value plus accrued dividends. The redemption amount is payable at our option in either Class A common stock (valued at the lower of the then applicable conversion price or an average price based upon the 30 trading days preceding the redemption) or cash. We currently have a significant number of derivative equity securities outstanding, the conversion of which could adversely impact the market price of our Class A common stock and our ability to obtain additional needed outside capital. The conversion of a significant number of our outstanding derivative securities into Class A common stock could adversely affect the market price of the stock. At December 31, 2007, there were warrants outstanding for 3,787,880 shares of Class A common stock at an exercise price of $1.38, shares of Series D convertible preferred stock convertible into 7,575,760 shares of Class A common stock (disregarding contractual restrictions that prevent any one of the holders of such warrants and convertible preferred stock from acquiring more than 4.99% of the outstanding equity except upon at least 61 days prior notice, and disregarding additional shares of common stock that may be issued as paid-in-kind dividends on the Series D preferred stock), options outstanding for 1,521,500 shares of Class A common stock at an average exercise price of $1.59, and 502,633 restricted stock awards subject to issuance without additional consideration upon satisfaction of vesting conditions. The issuance, exercise or conversion of a material amount of such securities will result in a dilution in interest for our other security holders. The convertible securities, whether converted into stock or not, could impair our ability to obtain additional capital because of the potential for dilution. Also, the holders of such securities may be expected to exercise their rights at a time when we would in all likelihood be able to obtain needed capital through a new offering of our securities on terms more favorable than those provided by the outstanding securities. If we raise additional funding, the terms of such transactions may cause dilution to existing shareholders or contain terms that are not favorable to us. We may seek to raise additional funding through private placements or public offerings of our equity or debt securities. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our shareholders may experience significant dilution. Any debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness and operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. Furthermore, any new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing equity holders. Covenants in our bond agreements could restrict our ability to borrow, which could impair our ability to execute our business plan. Certain covenants in our bond agreements restrict the types and amounts of additional indebtedness that we may incur, including a requirement that, with certain exceptions, we may only incur additional indebtedness to the extent it would satisfy a debt incurrence coverage ratio of 250% of income before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to debt service. Those restrictions could inhibit our ability to execute our business plan, including the improvement and expansion of our operations and facilities. Additionally, our ability to secure adequate working capital to support our day-to-day operations as we grow could be limited by the covenants in our bond agreements. Management may be in a position to control the Company. Directors and officers of the Company currently own approximately 36% of the outstanding Class A common stock and stock representing approximately 43% of the combined voting power of the Class A and Class B common 15 Table of Contents stock, including approximately 32% of the Class A common stock and 40% of the combined voting power which are owned by members of the Brooks family. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our technologies or products. Our commercial success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection for our technologies and products. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies and products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as unpatented proprietary technology. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate any competitive advantage we may have, which could harm our business and ability to achieve profitability. Our ability to maintain and solidify our proprietary position for our products will depend on our success in obtaining effective claims and enforcing those claims once granted. We also rely on trade secrets to protect some of our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to maintain. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors or other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary information to competitors. Enforcement of claims that a third party has illegally obtained and is using trade secrets is expensive, time consuming and uncertain. In addition, non-U.S. courts are sometimes less willing than U.S. courts to protect trade secrets. If our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how, we would not be able to assert our trade secrets against them and our business could be harmed. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We received a comment letter from the Securities and Exchange Commission dated December 21, 2007 as a result of our filing an S-3 registration statement, certain of which comments were addressed to our most recent 10K and 10Q filings. We responded to those comments on February 6, 2008, indicating to the Commission staff how we propose to respond to each such comment, and received additional comments from the SEC on February 21, 2008 including with respect to the appropriate accounting treatment of the Series D preferred stock and warrants issued in an October 2007 private placement transaction. Though we have not yet responded to the most recent comment letter, because with the passage of time it had become necessary to complete our 2007 audit before continuing with the registration statement, we believe that we have in this 10-K responded to the staff’s prior comments in a manner consistent with our prior discussions with the staff as to such matters other than their comments as to (i) whether the existence of financial covenants defaults required a classification of our bond debt to short-term, and (ii) the appropriate accounting treatment for the preferred stock and warrants and, as to the latter two items, we believe the existence of waivers that we have obtained from such bondholder as well as its concurrent actions during the fourth quarter 2007 in extending substantial additional bond financing to us resulted in the continuing long term classification of such debt being appropriate, and we have in this 10-K responded to and accounted for such preferred stock and warrants in a manner that we believe to be consistent with the guidance and accounting principles to which the Commission staff was directing us, subject to our further discussion with the Commission staff. 