risk factors pertaining to our business. Currency Exchange Rates Table No. 3(A)(1) below sets forth the rate of exchange for the Canadian Dollar at the end of each of the five (5) most recent fiscal years ended December 31, the average rates for each year, and the range of high and low rates for each year. Table 3(A)(2) sets forth the high and low exchange rates for each month during the previous six (6) months. For the years 2004 to 2005, the rate of exchange means the noon buying rate in New York City for cable transfers in foreign currencies as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. For the years 2006 to 2008, the rate of exchange means the noon buying rate as posted by the Bank of Canada. The Tables set forth the number of Canadian Dollars required under that formula to buy one (1) US Dollar. The average rate means the average of the exchange rates on the last day of each month during the year. Table No. 3(A)(1) U.S. Dollar/Canadian Dollar Currency Exchange Table No. 1 U.S. Dollar/Canadian Dollar Average High Low Close Fiscal Year Ended 12/31/08 1.07 1.31 0.98 1.22 Fiscal Year Ended 12/31/07 1.08 1.19 0.92 0.99 Fiscal Year Ended 12/31/06 1.13 1.17 1.10 1.17 Fiscal Year Ended 12/31/05 1.21 1.27 1.15 1.16 Fiscal Year Ended 12/31/04 1.30 1.40 1.18 1.20 The current rate of exchange was 1.12 on June 12, 2009. Table No. 3(A)(2) U.S. Dollar/Canadian Dollar 12/08 01/09 02/09 03/09 04/09 05/09 High 1.30 1.28 1.29 1.31 1.27 1.19 Low 1.21 1.19 1.23 1.23 1.20 1.09 5 A. Selected Financial Data The tables below present selected financial information. Our financial statements are stated in Canadian Dollars and were prepared in accordance with Canadian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“Canadian GAAP”). Table 3(A)(3) presents selected financial information under Canadian GAAP and Table 3(A)(4) presents the same information assuming we had reported under United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“US GAAP”) (see below). The financial information for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 has been restated to correct the accounting for the foreign currency translation adjustment arising as a result of translating the financial statements of our investment in Forum Energy plc (“FEP”).These tables should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto and Management’s Discussion and Analysis included elsewhere in this annual report. All dollar amounts in this report are expressed in Canadian dollars unless otherwise stated. Table No. 3(A)(3) Selected Financial Data Canadian GAAP (CDN $ in thousands, except Earnings Per Share) Year Ended 12/31/08 Year Ended 12/31/07 RESTATED Year Ended 12/31/06 RESTATED Year Ended 12/31/05 RESTATED Year Ended 12/31/04 Revenue $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - Gain (loss) Before Non-controlling Interest $(4,237) $(3,666) $(3,375) $10,371 $(7,228) Net Income (loss) $(4,237) $(3,666) $(3,375) $10,371 $(7,219) Net Income (loss) Per Share $(0.01) $(0.02) $(0.02) $0.06 $(0.05) Diluted Net Income (loss) Per Share $(0.01) $(0.02) $(0.02) $0.05 $(0.05) Dividends Per Share $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 Weighted Avg. Shares O/S 404,144 239,623 195,610 175,620 149,900 Working Capital $165 $706 $(3,153) $1,271 $(998) Resource Properties (1) $ - $ - $ - $ - $6,217 Long-Term Debt $ - $ - $ - $2,710 $7,921 Shareholders’ Equity/ (deficiency) $6,562 $7,579 $8,671 $10,142 $(2,153) Capital Stock Shares 434,144 434,144 234,144 178,161 174,584 Total Assets $6,690 $11,124 $11,587 $13,026 $7,271 (1) Resource properties comprise all costs of acquisition of, exploration for, and development of petroleum and natural gas reserves (net of government incentives) less depletion and write downs. Table No. 3(A)(4) Selected Financial Data US GAAP (CDN $ in thousands, except Earnings Per Share) Year Ended 12/31/08 Year Ended 12/31/07 RESTATED Year Ended 12/31/06 RESTATED Year Ended 12/31/05 RESTATED Year Ended 12/31/04 Revenue $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - Income (Loss) Before Non-controlling interest $(4,974) $(4,131) $(4,030) $10,287 $(6,973) Net Income (loss) $(4,974) $(4,131) $(4,030) $10,287 $(6,965) Net Income (loss) Per Share $(0.01) $(0.03) $(0.02) $0.06 $(0.05) Fully Diluted Net Income (loss) Per Share $(0.01) $(0.03) $(0.02) $0.05 $(0.05) Dividends Per Share $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 $0.00 Wgt. Avg. Shares O/S 404,144 209,623 195,610 175,620 149,900 Working Capital $165 $706 $(3,153) $1,271 $(998) Resource Properties $ - $ - $ - $ - $6,217 Long-Term Debt $ - $ - $ - $2,995 $8,105 Shareholders’ Equity/(deficiency) $5,432 $7,186 $8,216 $23,630 $(2,462) Capital Stock Shares 434,144 434,144 234,144 178,161 174,584 Total Assets $5,560 $10,730 $12,110 $27,030 $7,405 B. Risk Factors General Business Risks We Have a History of Operating Losses Which May Affect Our Ability to Continue Operations. We sustained net losses for each of the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 of $4,237,263, $3,665,745 and $3,375,127, respectively. We also anticipate sustaining a loss from operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. There is Substantial Doubt as to Our Ability to Continue Operations as a Going Concern in the Future. Our business success is dependent upon our ability to indirectly or directly discover economically recoverable reserves, and to bring such reserves into profitable production, and is subject to a number of risks, including environmental risks, contractual risks, legal and political risks, fluctuations in the price of oil and gas, and other factors beyond our control. The consolidated Financial Statements included herein have been prepared by management on the basis of accounting principles applicable to a “going concern”. Management believes the “going concern” basis, which presumes the realization of assets and discharge of liabilities in the normal course of business for the foreseeable future, is appropriate. We have experienced significant operating losses and cash outflows from operations in the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, and have no producing properties. Our ability to continue as a “going concern” is dependent on achieving profitable operations and upon obtaining additional financing. The outcome of these matters cannot be predicted at this time. In the United States, reporting standards for auditors require the addition of an explanatory paragraph when the financial statements are affected by conditions and events that cast substantial doubt on the company's ability to continue as a going concern (see Comments by Auditors for US Readers on Canada-US Reporting Differences). Although We Believe We Have the Working Capital to Support Our Business in 2009, We Will Need Additional Funds in Order to Implement Our Intended Projects and There is No Assurance that Such Funds Will Be Available As, If, and When, Needed. Funds used in operations for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 were $(1,480,714), $(417,405), and $(1,658,921), respectively. We have been dependent upon the proceeds of equity and debt financing in addition to the disposition of assets to fund operations. No assurances can be given that our actual cash requirements will not exceed our budget, that anticipated revenues will be realized, that, when needed, lines of credit will be available if necessary or that additional capital will be available to us. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such additional funds on terms and conditions we may deem acceptable. Failure to obtain such additional funds may materially and adversely affect our ability to acquire interests directly or indirectly in producing oil and gas and mineral properties. 7 We Do Not Intend to Pay Dividends In the Foreseeable Future, and thus, You Should Not Expect to Receive Dividends. We have paid no dividends on our common shares since inception, and do not plan to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. See "Description of Common Shares." The Market Price of Our Common Shares Has Been, and Will Likely Continue to Be, Volatile. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated over a wide range, and it is likely that the price of our common shares will fluctuate in the future. Further, announcements regarding acquisitions, the status of corporate collaborations, regulatory approvals or other developments by us or our competitors could have a significant impact on the market price of our common shares. The Value and Transferability of Our Shares May Be Adversely Impacted By the Limited Trading Market For Our Shares and the Penny Stock Rules. There is only a limited trading market for our shares on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board Exchange (“OTCBB”). There can be no assurance that this market will be sustained, or that we will be able to satisfy any future trading criteria that may be imposed by the National Association of Securities Dealers (“NASD”). In addition, holders of our common shares may experience substantial difficulty in selling their securities as a result of the “penny stock rules” which apply to our common shares. Under the penny stock rules, the Securities and Exchange Commission imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse). For transactions covered by the rules, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, the rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities, and also may affect the ability of purchasers of our stock to sell their shares in the secondary market. It may also cause fewer broker-dealers to make a market in our common shares. The Large Number of Shares Eligible For Future Sale By Existing Shareholders May Adversely Affect the Market Price For Our Common Shares. Future sales of substantial amounts of common shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. At June 15, 2009, we had 434,143,765 common shares outstanding. On that date we also had reserved 19,520,000 common shares for issuance under our stock plan at per-share exercise prices ranging from US$0.055 to US$0.079, and also had reserved 3,533,333 common shares for issuance under the warrants pursuant to the acquisition of Forum Exploration Inc. We intend to include these common shares in a future Registration Statement to be filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, registering the common shares for sale. 8 See "Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees--Options to Purchase Securities from the Company or Subsidiaries." No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that sales of shares of common shares or the availability of such shares for sale will have on the market prices of our common shares prevailing from time to time. The possibility that substantial amounts of our common shares may be sold under SEC Rule 144 into the public market may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common shares and could impair our ability to raise capital in the future through the sale of equity securities. A total of 272,721,034 shares currently could be sold under Rule 144. Your vote may not affect the outcome of any shareholder vote since our principal stockholder currently retains approximately 51% of our outstanding stock. For instance, Philex Mining Corporation may be able to control the outcome of all stockholder votes, including votes concerning director elections, charter and by-law amendments and possible mergers, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions which may not be in the interests of all shareholders. Foreign Laws, Rules and Environmental Regulations to Which We Are Subject May Adversely Affect Our Business Operations As Well As the Market Price For Our Stock. The production of oil and gas and the extraction of minerals by companies we invest in or by ourselves is generally subject to extensive laws, rules, orders and regulations governing a wide variety of matters, including the drilling and spacing of wells, allowable rates of production, prevention of waste and pollution and protection of the environment. In addition to the direct costs borne in complying with such regulations, operations and revenues may be impacted to the extent that certain regulations limit oil and gas and mineral production to below economic levels. Although the particular regulations applicable in each jurisdiction in which operations are conducted vary, such regulations are generally designed to ensure that oil and gas operations are carried out in a safe and efficient manner, and to ensure that similarly-situated operators are provided with reasonable opportunities to produce their respective fair share of available crude oil, natural gas, and mineral reserves. However, since these regulations generally apply to all oil and gas producers, we believe that these regulations should not put us at a material disadvantage to other oil, gas and mineral producers. Operating Risks - Oil and Gas Exploration Activities We Do Not Currently Own Properties With Oil or Gas or Mineral Reserves. Our Failure to Find or Acquire Available Reserves May Adversely Impact Our Business Operations. We do not own any properties or investments with oil, natural gas or mineral reserves. Our future oil, natural gas, or mineral reserves, production, and therefore, cash flow and income, as well as our success are highly dependent on success in finding or acquiring recoverable reserves by ourselves or through our investments. We cannot assure shareholders that we will be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire reserves to replace future production, if any. Exploring For and Producing Oil and Natural Gas and Minerals Are High-Risk Activities With Many Uncertainties That Could Adversely Affect Our Business, Financial Condition or Results of Operations. 9 Exploration and development of oil and gas and mineral resources involve a high degree of risk, and few properties which are explored are ultimately developed into producing properties. There is no assurance that our exploration and development activities or those of companies that we invest in will result in any discoveries of commercial bodies of oil, gas or minerals. The long-term profitability of our operations will be, in part, directly related to the cost and success of our exploration programs or those of companies we invest in which may be affected by a number of factors. Substantial expenditures are required to establish reserves through drilling, to develop processes to extract the resources, and, in the case of new properties, to develop the extraction and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for extraction. Although substantial benefits may be derived from the discovery of a major deposit of oil, gas or minerals, no assurance can be given that natural resources will be discovered in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations or that the funds required for development can be obtained on a timely basis. If We Or Companies We Invest In Are Unable to Continue to Identify, Explore and Develop New Properties, Our Business Operations May Be Adversely Affected. We expect that to be successful in our oil and gas and mineral exploration activities, we must continually acquire or explore for and develop new oil and gas reserves to replace those, if any, being depleted by production by ourselves or by companies we invest in. Without successful drilling or acquisition ventures, our direct and indirect oil and gas assets, mineral assets and, properties and the revenues derived there from, if any, will decline over time. To the extent we engage in drilling activities directly or indirectly, such activities carry the risk that no commercially viable oil or gas production or mineral extraction will be obtained. The cost of drilling, completing and operating oil and gas wells is often uncertain. Moreover, drilling for oil and gas and minerals may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of many factors, including shortage of available working capital, title problems, weather conditions, environmental concerns, government prohibitions, shortages of or delays in delivery of equipment, as well as the financial instability of well operators, major working interest owners, and drilling and well servicing companies. The availability of a ready market for oil and gas and minerals will depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the demand for and supply of oil and gas and minerals, the proximity of natural gas reserves to pipelines, the capacity of such pipelines, the proximity of any smelting facilities in relation to any minerals found, fluctuations in seasonal demand, the effects of inclement weather, and government regulation. New gas wells may be “shut-in” for lack of a market until a gas pipeline or gathering system with available capacity is extended into an area. The Exploration and Development of Oil and Gas and Mineral Properties are Subject to Operating Hazards and Risks for Which We Will Be Uninsured. Exploration for natural resources involves many risks, which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Operations in which we expect to acquire an interest will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration, development and production of resources, any of which could result in work stoppages, damage to persons or property and possible environmental damage. These include the possibility of fires, earthquake activity, coastal erosion, explosions, blowouts, oil spills or seepage, gas leaks, discharge of toxic gas, over-pressurized formations, unusual or unexpected geological conditions and the absence of economically viable reserves. These hazards may result in cost overruns, substantial losses, and/or exposure to substantial environmental and other liabilities. Fluctuating Resource Prices May Adversely Impact Our Operations and Activities. 10 The price of natural resources has traditionally been subject to wide fluctuations, particularly in recent years, and is affected by numerous factors beyond our control including international, economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, interest rates, global or regional consumptive patterns, speculative activities and increased production due to new extraction developments and improved extraction and production methods. The effect of these factors on the price of oil and gas and minerals, and therefore, the economic viability of any of our exploration projects or those of our investments, cannot accurately be predicted. If We Fail to Fulfill Our Obligations Under Our Purchase Option and Joint Venture Agreements, Not Only Will Our Operations Be Adversely Affected, But We May Lose Our Interest In the Property in Question. We may, in the future, be unable to meet our share of costs incurred under joint venture agreements or other option or joint venture agreements to which we are, or may become a party, and we may have our interest in properties, in which we may acquire interests subject to such agreements, reduced as a result. Furthermore, if other parties to such agreements do not meet their share of such costs, we may be unable to finance the cost required to complete recommended programs. It Is Possible that Our Title for the Claims in Which We Have an Interest Will Be Challenged By Third Parties. Although we will attempt to ascertain the status of the title for any projects in which we have or will acquire a material interest, there is no guarantee that title to such concessions will not be challenged or impugned. In some countries, the system for recording title to the rights to explore, develop, and mine natural resources is such that a title opinion provides only minimal comfort that the holder has title. Also, in many countries, claims have been made and new claims are being made by aboriginal peoples that call into question the property rights granted by the governments of those countries. Reserve Estimates for Resources That May Be Reported By Us Are Dependent On Many Assumptions that May Ultimately Turn Out to Be Inaccurate. Reserve estimates are imprecise and may be expected to change as additional information becomes available. Furthermore, estimates of reserves of natural resources, of necessity, are projections based on engineering data and there are uncertainties inherent in the interpretation of such data as well as the projection of future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil, gas and minerals that cannot be measured in an exact way and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the information regarding reserves of natural resources, if any, set forth herein will ultimately be produced. Any Resource Production That We May Undertake and Marketing or That of Companies That we Have Invested In May Be Adversely Affected By Factors Beyond Our Control. The production and marketing of resources are affected by a number of competitive factors which are beyond our control and the effect of which cannot be accurately predicted. These factors include crude oil and mineral imports, actions by foreign oil-producing nations and other mineral producers, the availability of adequate pipeline and other transportation facilities, the availability of equipment and personnel, the marketing of competitive fuels and minerals, the effect of governmental regulations, and other matters affecting the availability of a ready market such as fluctuating supply and demand. 11 Our Operations Will Be Subject to Numerous Environmental Risks If We Are Successful In Obtaining Properties That Have Proven Resources Or If We Undertake Exploration Activities Ourselves. Our resource operations and those of companies we invest in, if any will be subject to compliance with applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations controlling the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. We believe that there is a trend toward stricter standards of environmental regulation which will in all probability continue. Compliance with such laws and standards may cause substantial delays and require capital outlays in excess of those anticipated, thereby adversely affecting our earnings and competitive position in the future. Since We May Acquire Holdings In Properties In Less Developed Countries and Have Indirectly Acquired Holdings in Properties In Less Developed Countries, Our Operations May Be Adversely Affected By Risks Associated With the Political, Economic and Social Climate of the Countries In Which We Will Operate or Have Indirect Holdings . Since our direct and indirect exploration and development activities will occur primarily in countries other than Canada and the United States, we may be affected by possible political or economic instability in those countries. The risks include, but are not limited to, terrorism, military repression, extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates, and high rates of inflation. Changes in resource development or investment policies or shifts in political attitude in these countries may adversely affect our business. Operations may be effected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, income taxes, expropriation of property, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, water use and mine safety. The effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted. Exploration and production activities in areas outside of the United States and Canada are also subject to the risks inherent in foreign operations, including loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of hazards such as expropriation, nationalization, war, insurrection and other political risks. We Face Competition From Larger and Better Financed Companies Seeking to Acquire Properties In Our Sphere of Operation. The resource industry is highly competitive, and our business could be harmed by competition from other companies. Because resources are fungible commodities, the principal form of competition is price competition. We will strive to maintain the lowest exploration and production costs possible to maximize profits and insure that any companies in which we invest do the same. In addition, as an independent resource company, we frequently compete for reserve acquisitions, exploration leases, licenses, concessions and marketing agreements against companies with financial and other resources substantially larger than we possess. Many of our competitors have established strategic long term positions and maintain strong governmental relationships in countries in which we may seek entry. We Currently Do Not Maintain Insurance Against Potential Losses and Unexpected Liabilities. As previously stated herein, exploration for and production of resources can be hazardous, involving natural disasters and other unforeseen occurrences such as “blowouts”, “cratering”, fires and loss of well control, which can damage or destroy wells or production facilities, injure or kill people, and damage property and the environment. Although we intend to maintain insurance against many potential losses or liabilities arising from our operations in accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts that we believe to be prudent, we do not presently have such insurance coverage; and, even if we were to obtain such insurance coverage, there is no assurance that it will be adequate to protect against all operational risks, or subject to defenses or exclusions against insurance coverage. 12 We Are Dependent On Retaining Our Senior Management and Key Personnel. To a large extent, we depend on the services of our senior management personnel. These individuals have critical and unique knowledge of the areas of operations that facilitate the evaluation and acquisition of potential properties in our intended sphere of operations. The loss of these experienced personnel, if that were to occur, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to compete in this region of the world. We do not maintain any insurance against the loss of any management personnel. Our Directors May Face Conflicts of Interest In Connection With Our Participation In Certain Ventures Because They Are Directors of Other Resource Companies. Some of our directors participate in other resource companies and to the extent that such other companies may participate in ventures in which we may participate, our directors may have a conflict of interest in negotiating and concluding terms respecting the extent of such participation. It is possible that due to our directors’ conflicting interests, we may be precluded from participating in certain projects that we might otherwise have participated in or we may obtain less favorable terms on certain projects than we might have obtained if our directors were not also the directors of other participating mineral resource companies. In their effort to balance their conflicting interests, our directors may approve terms that are equally favorable to all of their companies as opposed to negotiating terms that may be more favorable to us, but adverse to their other companies. Additionally, it is possible that we may not be afforded certain opportunities to participate in particular projects because such projects are assigned to our directors’ other companies for which the directors may deem the projects to have a greater benefit. 