ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Owners of Units are exposed to risks and uncertainties that are particular to their investment. • Royalty Production from the Prudhoe Bay field is projected to decline and will eventually cease. The Prudhoe Bay field has been in production since 1977. Development of the field is largely completed and proved reserves are being depleted. Production of oil and condensate from the field has been declining during recent years and the decline is expected to continue. Royalty payments to the Trust are projected to cease after 2028. Production estimates included in this report are based on economic conditions and production forecasts as of the end of 2014, and also depend on various assumptions, projections and estimates which are continually revised and updated by BP Alaska. These revisions could result in material changes to the projected declines in production. It is possible that economic production from the reserves allocated to the 1989 Working Interests could decline more quickly and end sooner than is currently projected, especially if construction of a gas pipeline makes it economical to produce natural gas from the Prudhoe Bay field on a large scale, as discussed below. • Construction of a gas pipeline from the North Slope of Alaska could accelerate the decline in Royalty Production from the Prudhoe Bay field. The construction of a natural gas pipeline to bring natural gas from the North Slope could make it economical to extract natural gas from the Prudhoe Bay field and transport it to market. Currently, natural gas released by pumping oil is reinjected into the ground, which helps to maintain reservoir pressure and facilitates extraction of oil from the field. Extraction of natural gas from the Prudhoe Bay field would lower reservoir pressure, although carbon dioxide stripped out of the gas could be reinjected and other methods could be employed to mitigate the reduction. The lowering of the reservoir pressure could accelerate the decline in production from the 1989 Working Interests and the time at which royalty payments to the Trust would cease. Since the Trust is not entitled to any royalty payments with respect to natural gas production from the 1989 Working Interests, the Unit holders would not realize any offsetting benefit from natural gas production from the Prudhoe Bay field. 21 Table of Contents Without a pipeline, extraction of natural gas from the Prudhoe Bay field on a large scale would not be economical. In October 2012, ExxonMobil, ConocoPhillips, BP and Calgary-based TransCanada Corporation (“TransCanada”) notified Alaska Governor Sean Parnell that they had agreed on a plan to combine what were once two competing natural gas pipeline projects destined for the continental U.S. into one project focused on export markets. This project contemplates building an 800-mile natural gas pipeline from the North Slope to a port on the southern coast of Alaska from which liquified natural gas (“LNG”) would be exported to Asia. This project would also include natural gas processing facilities and a natural-gas export terminal. The announcement by the consortium followed a March 2012 settlement between the state of Alaska and the companies over a dispute relating to leases at the Point Thomson field, located east of the Prudhoe Bay field. The companies were allowed to keep their large leases in exchange for promises to begin first oil production from Point Thomson by 2016 and to combine their competing projects. A pipeline connecting the Point Thomson gas field to TAPS was completed in March 2014. The 12-inch, 22-mile pipeline will carry natural gas condensates to the Badami field line that is a common carrier to TAPS. It is expected that the Point Thomson field will start producing 10,000 barrels per day of condensates into TAPS by 2016. On January 10, 2014, Governor Parnell announced that the state of Alaska would pursue becoming an equity partner in the Alaska natural gas pipeline project. On January 15, 2014, it was announced that ExxonMobil, BP, ConocoPhillips, TransCanada, Alaska Gasline Development Corporation (“AGDC”), and Alaska’s commissioners of natural resources and revenue had signed a heads of agreement (“HOA”) for the Alaska LNG Project, laying the commercial framework for the development of the natural gas pipeline from the North Slope to the south-central Alaska coast. The HOA parties expect the state’s participating interest in each component of the project to be 20 to 25%. The Nikiski area of the Kenai Peninsula has been selected as the leading site for the LNG plant. The HOA terminates December 31, 2015, unless extended by mutual agreement of the parties. On April 20, 2014, the Alaska legislature approved a measure directing state negotiations with ExxonMobil, BP, ConocoPhillips and TransCanada toward a partnership to develop the Alaska LNG project. The legislation amended multiple state laws, allowing negotiations to proceed toward the state becoming an equity partner in the multibillion-dollar project. On September 5, 2014, an application was filed with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) to begin a pre-filing process to begin preparatory work for an environmental impact statement for the project. Earlier in 2014 an application was submitted to the U.S. Department of Energy for a license to export LNG. Pre-Front End Engineering and Design work, or pre-FEED, also commenced in the summer of 2014. The proposed timeline in the FERC application contemplates that a full application will be made in September 2016. This application would include a dozen “resource reports” documenting baseline environmental and safety data along the entire project route. The companies have proposed that the commission issue the draft environmental impact statement in October 2017 and the final environmental impact statement in March 2018. The application also requests that the commission issue an authorization for the project no later than July 2018. According to the timeline in the pre-filing, construction would start 2018-2019 and operations could begin 2024-2025. The LNG export project is expected to take six to eight years to complete due to the scale of construction and the number and complexity of technical, legal, political and financial issues involved. It is anticipated that the cost of the project could be in excess of $65 billion. However, it is expected that upon completion of the project, billions of dollars in natural gas that is now stranded on the North Slope could be transported. It is expected that Alaskan natural gas would encounter substantial competition for customers in Asian markets, since several large liquefied natural gas projects are expected to come online in Australia in the next few years to meet Asian energy demand. There is also a more developed project to export liquefied natural gas from British Columbia, where gas production costs may be lower. 22 Table of Contents • The effect of the 2013 changes to the Alaska Production Tax Statutes on Royalty Production from the Prudhoe Bay field is unpredictable. The 2007 adoption of ACES (see “THE ROYALTY INTEREST – Production Taxes” in Item 1 above) may have accelerated the decline in production of oil and condensate from the Prudhoe Bay field to the extent that it caused BP Alaska and the other owners of working interests in the Prudhoe Bay Unit to reduce or defer investment in oil production infrastructure renewal, well development and implementation of new technology due to uncompetitive returns on investment in Alaska. ACES, in addition to increasing the basic oil production tax rate and the progressivity factor, also eliminated or reduced many deductions and credits permitted under the 2006 Amendments. From 2008 through 2012, BP Alaska’s spending on production adding activity, adjusted for inflation, has been flat to declining. From 2013 and continuing in 2014, such spending has been rising. As noted (see “THE ROYALTY INTEREST – Production Taxes” in Item 1 above), the Production Tax Statutes were amended in 2013 with the aim of encouraging oil production and investment in Alaska’s oil industry. The Act eliminated the monthly “progressivity” tax rate implemented by 2006 Amendments and ACES and added a stair-step per-barrel tax credit for oil production. Although Production Taxes decreased during 2014 following the effectiveness of the Act, the effect these changes will continue to have on Royalty Production is unpredictable. • Royalty payments by BP Alaska to the Trust are unpredictable, because they depend on Cushing, Oklahoma WTI spot prices, which are subject to volatility, and on the volume of production from the 1989 Working Interests, which may vary from quarter to quarter in the future. Even though WTI Prices have generally risen in recent years, they have remained subject to periodic fluctuations and significant volatility, as evidenced by the 50% decline in WTI Prices during the last six months of 2014. Even before this steep decline, the general trend of WTI price increases had moderated as a result of increasing volumes of crude oil production from Canada and the Bakken shale formation, situated in the northwest portion of North Dakota (and extending into Montana and portions of Canada), moving into the U.S. Midwest market. Oil production in the United States has also surged owing, in part, to a dramatic increase in horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, and other technological advances in oil detection and extraction. With these new oil flows from Canada and the United States, Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point for WTI futures contracts on the New York Mercantile Exchange, became oversupplied. This market had been reliant on high-cost rail and trucks to ship both crude oil stored at Cushing and production from Canada and the Bakken shale formation to the Gulf Coast. These constraints on transportation of crude oil out of the U.S. Midwest market, together with the great increase in production in North America and the decades-long U.S. ban on crude oil exports, helped to weigh down WTI spot prices for several years and kept the price of WTI crude oil at a historic discount to globally traded waterborne crudes such as Brent. In the past, WTI was more likely to trade at a premium to Brent. In May 2012, Enbridge, Inc. and Enterprise Products Partners, joint owners of the Seaway crude oil pipeline, which links markets in the Houston area with oil storage facilities near Cushing, completed a project to reverse the flow direction of the Seaway Pipeline to run north to south. Historically, pipelines have flowed from the Gulf Coast to Cushing. Following pump station additions and modifications, the capacity of the reversed Seaway Pipeline was increased to carry 400,000 barrels per day of crude oil to the Gulf Coast to relieve the glut of crude oil at Cushing. A “Seaway Twin” pipeline running parallel to the reversed Seaway Pipeline with a capacity to carry an additional 450,000 barrels a day came online in December 2014. 23 Table of Contents Other pipeline projects from the mid-continent to Gulf Coast refining centers have also helped reduce the cost of transporting crude oil to refiners. For example, the southern leg of TransCanada’s Keystone XL pipeline network, known as the Gulf Coast Pipeline, has expanded the reach of the network by adding a segment from Cushing to the Gulf Coast of Texas. In this segment, domestic oil is added to the pipeline at Cushing and then extends 485 miles to a delivery point near terminals in Nederland, Texas to serve the Port Arthur, Texas marketplace. On January 22, 2014, the Gulf Coast Pipeline began delivering crude oil to Texas refineries. The Gulf Coast pipeline is projected to eventually be able to transport 830,000 barrels of oil per day to Gulf Coast refineries. A 47.2 mile pipeline lateral has connected the Gulf Coast pipeline to refineries in the Houston area. This expansion of pipeline capacity from Cushing to Gulf Coast refineries relieved the mid-continent bottleneck by transporting the excessive inventories that had built up in Cushing, thereby helping to reduce supplies from 40.3 million barrels in January 2014 to a six-year low of 17.9 million barrels in July 2014. This led to concerns that storage levels would actually become too low for oil to be easily pumped out of tanks, which sent WTI oil prices above $100 a barrel in March 2014. However, in the second half of 2014, additional pipelines opened to bring more oil from Colorado, North Dakota and Canada into Cushing, helping stabilize storage levels at the hub. In addition, U.S. oil production continued increasing to more than 9 million barrels a day, which is the highest level in decades. As a result, by January 2015, inventories at Cushing had returned to February 2014 levels, offsetting the increase in transportation that helped boost WTI prices in spring 2014. Storage levels were more than double the levels that existed at the end of July 2014. It is expected that the WTI market will remain oversupplied in the first half of 2015, so more oil will likely enter storage in the coming months. Despite the recent increase in storage levels, the ability to ship crude oil out of Cushing via pipeline has allowed WTI and similar inland U.S. crudes to compete directly with the higher-priced waterborne crude oils on the Gulf Coast (whose prices have historically closely followed Brent). This ability helped bring the price of WTI in 2014 more in line with prices for other crude oils trading on the global markets. After diverging in 2011 to a high of around $30 per barrel, with Brent the more expensive oil, the spread between WTI and Brent eventually decreased in 2013 and 2014 as a result of the new crude pipeline construction and crude pipeline flow reversals. Other factors have the potential to further reduce the spread between the Brent price and the price of U.S. domestic production. In addition to the lack of pipeline capacity, as discussed above, the WTI/Brent spread has been influenced by the U.S. ban on crude oil exports introduced in the 1970’s. That ban has begun to slowly erode as crude oil stocks in the U.S. have increased following the development of shale deposits. In June 2014, the U.S. Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry and Security (“BIS”) approved requests from two energy companies to export minimally refined condensates. Two other companies had already received BIS permission in April 2014 to re-export crude oil from Canada that had been imported into the U.S. A number of energy companies requested clarification from BIS regarding permissible exports. At the end of December 2014, BIS issued policy guidance on this issue. In a FAQ, BIS noted that under the Export Administration Regulations (EAR), crude oil is defined as liquid hydrocarbons that have “not been processed through a crude oil distillation tower.” The definition includes “reconstituted crude petroleum, and lease condensate and liquid hydrocarbons produced from tar sands, gilsonate, and oil shale.” These liquid hydrocarbons may not be exported. Lease condensates that have been “processed through a crude oil distillation tower” may be exported, since, according to BIS, this is not considered “crude oil” but a “petroleum product,” which is subject to few export restrictions. 24 Table of Contents The EIA anticipates that the ability to export some lease condensates after processing has the potential to further reduce the spread between the Brent price and the price of U.S. domestic production. However, other analysts suggest that, with expectations that the U.S. boom in production will decline by the middle of 2015 due to the lowest oil prices in six years, the ability to export crude has become less of a concern for producers. Storage cost is another factor that may affect the spread between WTI and Brent. When global markets have excess supply, traders may store excess crude in anticipation of selling it in the future when prices have increased. Onshore storage units in Europe and Asia have limited capacity and some traders have chartered supertankers to store the excess supply at sea. However, floating storage is costly compared to onshore storage. Cushing has considerable capacity for storing crude at lower storage costs. Because of this advantage, traders may prefer WTI to Brent, which would exert further pressure to close the spread between WTI and Brent. Certain analysts believe the collapse in the Brent-WTI differential represents a fundamental realignment in the global oil market as producers continue to produce more crude oil than the world needs and thereby driving down prices. In the EIA’s International Energy Outlook 2014, the EIA noted that world markets for petroleum and other liquid fuels appear to have entered a period of significant change with respect to both supply and demand. Potential new supplies of oil from tight and shale resources have raised expectations for significant new sources of global liquids. The EIA noted that the potential for growth in demand for liquid fuels is expected to come from China, India, and the Middle East rather than from the United States, Europe and other well-established oil markets. The AEO 2014 observed that, following a significant period of high oil prices, the rate of growth in the use of liquid fuels in these more mature markets has been reduced as a result of improvements in conservation and efficiency. While energy price forecasts are highly uncertain, EIA forecasts that Brent crude oil prices will average $58 per barrel in 2015 and $75 per barrel in 2016, with annual average WTI prices expected to be $3 to $4 per barrel below Brent. However, future domestic and international events and conditions may produce wide swings in crude oil prices over relatively short periods of time. Recent moves in crude oil prices have been affected by many factors. These include reduced demand due to weak economic activity, increased efficiency, increased demand for other types of fuel, strong production growth, new supplies from tight and shale resources, the unwillingness of OPEC to intervene to stabilize oversupplied crude oil markets by cutting production in order to preserve market share, shifts in inventory management strategies by international oil companies, conservation measures by consumers, increasing effects of the oil futures market and other unpredictable political, geopolitical, psychological and economic factors, such as expectations for global economic growth, political turmoil in North Africa and the Middle East, the confrontation between Ukraine and Russia and ongoing tensions in the Persian Gulf over Iran’s nuclear program. For additional information, see the history of WTI Prices since 1986 published by the U.S. Energy Information Administration at http://tonto.eia.doe.gov. It is increasingly likely that the Trust’s revenues in future periods also will be affected by decreases in production from the 1989 Working Interests. BP Alaska’s average net production of oil and condensate allocated to the Trust from proved reserves was less than 90,000 barrels per day on an annual basis during 2012, 2013 and 2014, and the Trustee has been advised that BP Alaska expects that average net production allocated to the Trust from the proved reserves will be less than 90,000 barrels a day on an annual basis in future years. Unit holders thus are subject to the risk that cash distributions with respect to their Units may vary widely from quarter to quarter. 25 Table of Contents • Prudhoe Bay field oil production could be shut in partially or entirely from time to time as a result of damage to or failures of field pipelines or equipment. In August 2006, BP Alaska shut down the eastern side of the Prudhoe Bay Unit following the discovery of unexpectedly severe corrosion and a small spill from the oil transit line on that side of the Unit. Earlier, in March of 2006, BP had to temporarily shut down and commence the replacement of a three-mile segment of transit line on the western side of the Prudhoe Bay Unit following discovery of a large oil spill. BP Alaska completely replaced approximately 16 miles of transit lines on the eastern and western sides of the Prudhoe Bay Unit and has implemented federally-required corrosion monitoring practices. However, the discovery of additional defects in Prudhoe Bay Unit oil flowlines and transit lines, and damage to or failures of separation facilities or other critical equipment, could result in future shutdowns of oil production from all or portions of the Prudhoe Bay Unit and have an adverse effect on future royalty payments. • Oil production from the Prudhoe Bay Unit could be interrupted by damage to the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System from natural causes, accidents, deliberate attacks or declining oil flows. The Trans-Alaska Pipeline System connects the North Slope oil fields to the southern port of Valdez, almost 800 miles away. It is the only way that oil can be transported from the North Slope to market. The pipeline system crosses three mountain ranges, many rivers and streams and thaw-sensitive permafrost. It is susceptible along its length to damage from earthquakes, forest fires and other natural disasters. The pipeline system also is vulnerable to failures of pipeline segments and pumping equipment, accidental damage and deliberate attacks. Recently, the pipeline has become susceptible to damage resulting from declining flows of oil from the North Slope. Slower flows cause the temperature of the oil in the pipeline to cool faster, increasing the rate of deposit of wax, which coats pipe walls, hides corrosion and clogs sensors on smart pigs sent through the pipeline to detect it. Even lower flow rates projected in the future may lead to internal damage caused by ice formation within the pipe and external damage from frost heaves under buried segments. Major upgrades to the pipeline may be required to counteract the effects of cooler oil temperature. If the pipeline or its pumping stations should suffer major damage from natural or man-made causes, production from the Prudhoe Bay Unit could be shut in until the pipeline system can be repaired and restarted. Royalty payments to the Trust could be halted or reduced by a material amount as a result of interruption to production from the Prudhoe Bay Unit. In January 2011, TAPS was shut down over two periods of several days each as a result of the discovery of a leak of crude oil in the basement of a booster pump building at Pump Station No. 1. See “THE PRUDHOE BAY UNIT AND FIELD — Collection and Transportation of Prudhoe Bay Oil” in Item 1 for additional information. In January 2015, President Obama proposed designating 12 million of the 19 million acres of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge as wilderness. The wilderness designation, which is the highest form of protection the federal government can give to public lands, would prohibit numerous activities, such as drilling for oil and gas and road construction. The President also proposed limiting offshore leasing in Alaska’s Beaufort and Chukchi Seas and blocking drilling in some portions of the National Petroleum Reserve. These actions could prohibit new oil production in much of Alaska, which has seen production decline from a peak of 2.1 million barrels per day in 1988 to an average daily production of 531,074 barrels in 2014. As noted above, without more crude oil to be transported by TAPS, which has had declining volumes over the last decade, slower flows and freezing temperatures could eventually force the closure of the pipeline, making it impossible to transport oil from the North Slope to market. 26 Table of Contents • Production from the 1989 Working Interests may be interrupted or discontinued by BP Alaska. BP Alaska has no obligation to continue production from the 1989 Working Interests or to maintain production at any level and may interrupt or discontinue production at any time. The Trust does not have the right to take over operation of the 1989 Working Interests or share in any operating decisions by BP Alaska concerning the Prudhoe Bay Unit. The operation of the Prudhoe Bay Unit is subject to normal operating hazards incident to the production and transportation of oil in Alaska. In the event of damage to the infrastructure, facilities and equipment in the Prudhoe Bay field which is covered by insurance, BP Alaska has no obligation to use insurance proceeds to repair such damage and may elect to retain such proceeds and close damaged areas to production. • There are potential conflicts of interest between BP Alaska and the Trust that could affect the royalties paid to Unit holders. The interests of BP Alaska and the Trust with respect to the Prudhoe Bay Unit could at times be different. The Per Barrel Royalty that BP Alaska pays to the Trust is based on the WTI Price, Chargeable Costs and Production Taxes, all of which are amounts contractually defined in the Conveyance. The WTI Price does not necessarily correspond to the actual price realized by BP Alaska for crude oil produced from the 1989 Working Interests, and Chargeable Costs and Production Taxes may not bear any relation to BP Alaska’s actual costs of production and tax expenses. The actual per barrel profit realized by BP Alaska on the Royalty Production may differ materially from the Per Barrel Royalty that it is required to pay to the Trust. It is possible under certain circumstances that the relationship between BP Alaska’s actual per barrel revenues and costs could be such that BP Alaska might determine to interrupt or discontinue production in whole or in part from the 1989 Working Interests even though a Per Barrel Royalty might otherwise be payable to the Trust under the Conveyance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Trust has not received any written comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) that remain unresolved. 