ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Owners of Units are exposed to risks and uncertainties that are particular to their investment. • Royalty Production from the Prudhoe Bay field is projected to decline and will eventually cease. The Prudhoe Bay field has been in production since 1977. Development of the field is largely completed and proved reserves are being depleted. Production of oil and condensate from the field has been declining during recent years and the decline is expected to continue. Royalty payments to the Trust are projected to cease after 2027. Production estimates included in this report are based on economic conditions and production forecasts as of the end of 2011, and also depend on various assumptions, projections and estimates which are continually revised and updated by BP Alaska. These revisions could result in material changes to the projected declines in production. It is possible that economic production from the reserves allocated to the 1989 Working Interests could decline more quickly and end sooner than is currently projected, especially if construction of a gas pipeline makes it economical to produce natural gas from the Prudhoe Bay field on a large scale, as discussed below. • Construction of a gas pipeline from the North Slope of Alaska could accelerate the decline in Royalty Production from the Prudhoe Bay field. The construction of a natural gas pipeline to bring natural gas from the North Slope to the U.S. market would make it economical to extract natural gas from the Prudhoe Bay field and transport it to the lower 48 states for sale. Currently, natural gas released by pumping oil is reinjected into the ground, which helps to maintain reservoir pressure and facilitates extraction of oil from the field. Extraction of natural gas from the Prudhoe Bay field would lower reservoir pressure, although carbon dioxide stripped out of the gas could be reinjected and other methods could be employed to mitigate the reduction. The lowering of the reservoir pressure could accelerate the decline in production from the 1989 Working Interests and the time at which royalty payments to the Trust would cease. Since the Trust is not entitled to any royalty payments with respect to natural gas production from the 1989 Working Interests, the Unit holders would not realize any offsetting benefit from natural gas production from the Prudhoe Bay field. 23 Table of Contents Without a pipeline, extraction of natural gas from the Prudhoe Bay field on a large scale would not be economical. Two subsidiaries of Calgary-based TransCanada Corporation (“TransCanada”) have been issued a license by the state of Alaska under the Alaska Gasline Inducement Act (“AGIA”) to construct a large-diameter natural gas pipeline from the North Slope. Under the license, the state will provide up to $500 million in matching funds and other incentives in exchange for TransCanada doing its best to secure customers for the pipeline, financing, and regulatory clearances from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) and Canadian authorities. TransCanada and affiliates of ExxonMobil have combined to promote a joint venture named the “Alaska Pipeline Project.” The Alaska Pipeline Project contemplates a large-diameter pipeline extending from the North Slope through Alaska, and then into Canada through the Yukon Territory and British Columbia to the existing Alberta Storage Hub. The Alaska Pipeline Project proposal also includes an alternative pipeline route that would extend from the North Slope to a third-party liquefied natural gas terminal near Valdez, Alaska. The Alaska Pipeline Project has held open seasons, in accordance with FERC regulations, seeking customers to make long-term firm transportation commitments to its project and is conducting technical and engineering studies in order to advance the design and construction plans for project facilities. The Alaska Pipeline Project has indicated that it continues to actively work toward filing major permit applications with FERC and the Northern Pipeline Agency in 2012 by conducting environmental, regulatory and land field studies and other work required to secure permits. There is no assurance that the Alaska Pipeline Project will move from the development stage to licensing and construction of a pipeline. On May 17, 2011, Denali – The Alaska Gas Pipeline, LLC (“Denali”), a joint venture of BP and ConocoPhillips, announced that it was ending its North Slope gas pipeline project because its open season efforts had not resulted in the customer commitments necessary to continue the work. Denali stated that it would withdraw its FERC pre-file application and close out its operations. On the same day, a spokesman for TransCanada announced that the company and ExxonMobil Corporation remain committed to their joint natural gas pipeline project, but that “a lot of negotiations remain, including talks between TransCanada and oil and gas producers in Alaska over terms of a pipeline shipping agreement, and talks between producers and the state of Alaska over production taxes and incentives.” If the TransCanada project is successful, gas could commence flowing from the North Slope to market in the lower 48 states within eight to ten years. • Royalty Production from the Prudhoe Bay field may have been adversely affected by the recent changes to the Alaska Production Tax Statutes. The 2007 adoption of ACES (see “THE ROYALTY INTEREST – Production Taxes” in Item 1 above) may have accelerated the decline in production of oil and condensate from the Prudhoe Bay field to the extent that it has caused BP Alaska and the other owners of working interests in the Prudhoe Bay Unit to reduce or defer investment in oil production infrastructure renewal, well development and implementation of new technology due to uncompetitive returns on investment in Alaska. ACES, in addition to increasing the basic oil production tax rate and the progressivity factor, also eliminates or reduces many deductions and credits permitted under the 2006 Amendments. Since 2007, BP Alaska’s spending on production adding activity, adjusted for inflation, has been flat to declining. 24 Table of Contents • Royalty payments by BP Alaska to the Trust are unpredictable, because they depend on Cushing, Oklahoma WTI spot prices, which have been volatile in recent years, and on the volume of production from the 1989 Working Interests, which may vary from quarter to quarter in the future. Even though WTI Prices have been rising generally in recent years, they nevertheless remain subject to significant periodic fluctuations. These fluctuations were especially pronounced during 2008 and 2009. In 2011 the WTI average price of about $96 per barrel, although short of breaking its record annual average price set in 2008, was still up $15 a barrel over 2010. The WTI price increase was moderated over the past year as a result of increasing volumes of crude oil production from Canada and the Bakken shale formation, situated in the northwest portion of North Dakota (and extending into Montana and portions of Canada), moving into the U.S. Midwest market where most WTI is refined. With these new oil flows from Canada and the United States, Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point for WTI futures contracts on the New York Mercantile Exchange, has become oversupplied, keeping the price of WTI crude oil for much of the year at a historic discount to globally traded waterborne crudes such as Brent. In the past, WTI was more likely to trade at a premium to Brent. In early 2011, the discount grew as wide as $19 per barrel and reached a record of $29.70 per barrel on September 22, 2011. However, between October and November, 2011, the WTI spot price increased $23 per barrel while the price of Brent crude oil was up only about $7 per barrel. As a result, the WTI-Brent crude oil price difference narrowed to under $10 per barrel. The increase in the WTI spot price was due in part to indications that constraints on transportation of crude oil out of the U.S. Midwest market were easing. Currently, the market relies on high-cost rail and trucks to ship both crude oil stored at Cushing and production from Canada and the Bakken shale formation to the Gulf Coast. On November 16, 2011, ConocoPhillips announced it was selling its 50% share of the Seaway crude oil pipeline, which links markets in the Houston area with oil storage facilities near Cushing, to Enbridge, Inc. Enbridge and Enterprise Products Partners, the other joint owner of Seaway, announced that it intended to reverse oil flows to run north to south. Historically, pipelines have flowed from the Gulf Coast to Cushing. It is anticipated that the reverse flow will begin before June 1, 2012. The proposed reversed Seaway Pipeline is initially planned to transport up to 150,000 barrels per day of crude oil from Cushing to the Gulf Coast, with plans to increase capacity to 400,000 barrels per day by 2013. The ability to ship crude oil out of Cushing via pipeline, while not eliminating delays in moving WTI crude oil to other markets, is expected to allow WTI and similar inland U.S. crudes to compete directly with the higher-priced waterborne crude oils on the Gulf Coast (whose prices have historically closely followed Brent). As a result, the price of WTI may be brought more in line with prices for other crude oils trading on the global markets. For additional information, see the history of WTI Prices since 1986 published by the U.S. Energy Information Administration at http://tonto.eia.doe.gov. Recent moves in crude oil prices have been affected by many factors, including changes in demand by oil-consuming countries, the actions of OPEC to control production by members of the cartel, shifts in inventory management strategies by international oil companies, conservation measures by consumers, increasing effects of the oil futures market and other unpredictable political, psychological and economic factors including, most recently, the global economic recession, political turmoil in North Africa and the Middle East and increasing tensions in the Persian Gulf over Iran’s nuclear program. Future domestic and international events and conditions may produce wide swings in crude oil prices over relatively short periods of time. 25 Table of Contents It is increasingly likely that the Trust’s revenues in future periods also will be affected by decreases in production from the 1989 Working Interests. BP Alaska’s average net production of oil and condensate allocated to the Trust from proved reserves was less than 90,000 barrels per day on an annual basis during 2009 and 2010 and 2011, and the Trustee has been advised that BP Alaska expects that average net production allocated to the Trust from the proved reserves will be less than 90,000 barrels a day on an annual basis in future years. Unit holders thus are subject to the risk that cash distributions with respect to their Units may vary widely from quarter to quarter. • Prudhoe Bay field oil production could be shut in partially or entirely from time to time as a result of damage to or failures of field pipelines or equipment. In August 2006, BP Alaska shut down the eastern side of the Prudhoe Bay Unit following the discovery of unexpectedly severe corrosion and a small spill from the oil transit line on that side of the Unit. Earlier, in March of 2006, BP had to temporarily shut down and commence the replacement of a three-mile segment of transit line on the western side of the Prudhoe Bay Unit following discovery of a large oil spill. BP Alaska completely replaced approximately 16 miles of transit lines on the eastern and western sides of the Prudhoe Bay Unit and has implemented federally-required corrosion monitoring practices. However, the discovery of additional defects in Prudhoe Bay Unit oil flowlines and transit lines, and damage to or failures of separation facilities or other critical equipment, could result in future shutdowns of oil production from all or portions of the Prudhoe Bay Unit and have an adverse effect on future royalty payments. • Oil production from the Prudhoe Bay Unit could be interrupted by damage to the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System from natural causes, accidents, deliberate attacks or declining oil flows. The Trans-Alaska Pipeline System connects the North Slope oil fields to the southern port of Valdez, almost 800 miles away. It is the only way that oil can be transported from the North Slope to market. The pipeline system crosses three mountain ranges, many rivers and streams and thaw-sensitive permafrost. It is susceptible along its length to damage from earthquakes, forest fires and other natural disasters. The pipeline system also is vulnerable to failures of pipeline segments and pumping equipment, accidental damage and deliberate attacks. Recently, the pipeline has become susceptible to damage resulting from declining flows of oil from the North Slope. Slower flows cause the temperature of the oil in the pipeline to cool faster, increasing the rate of deposit of wax, which coats pipe walls, hides corrosion and clogs sensors on smart pigs sent through the pipeline to detect it. Even lower flow rates projected in the future may lead to internal damage caused by ice formation within the pipe and external damage from frost heaves under buried segments. Major upgrades to the pipeline may be required to counteract the effects of cooler oil temperature. If the pipeline or its pumping stations should suffer major damage from natural or man-made causes, production from the Prudhoe Bay Unit could be shut in until the pipeline system can be repaired and restarted. Royalty payments to the Trust could be halted or reduced by a material amount as a result of interruption to production from the Prudhoe Bay Unit. In January 2011, TAPS was shut down over two periods of several days each as a result of the discovery of a leak of crude oil in the basement of a booster pump building at Pump Station No. 1. See “THE PRUDHOE BAY UNIT AND FIELD — Collection and Transportation of Prudhoe Bay Oil” in Item 1 for additional information 26 Table of Contents • Production from the 1989 Working Interests may be interrupted or discontinued by BP Alaska. BP Alaska has no obligation to continue production from the 1989 Working Interests or to maintain production at any level and may interrupt or discontinue production at any time. The Trust does not have the right to take over operation of the 1989 Working Interests or share in any operating decisions by BP Alaska concerning the Prudhoe Bay Unit. The operation of the Prudhoe Bay Unit is subject to normal operating hazards incident to the production and transportation of oil in Alaska. In the event of damage to the infrastructure, facilities and equipment in the Prudhoe Bay field which is covered by insurance, BP Alaska has no obligation to use insurance proceeds to repair such damage and may elect to retain such proceeds and close damaged areas to production. • There are potential conflicts of interest between BP Alaska and the Trust that could affect the royalties paid to Unit holders. The interests of BP Alaska and the Trust with respect to the Prudhoe Bay Unit could at times be different. The Per Barrel Royalty that BP Alaska pays to the Trust is based on the WTI Price, Chargeable Costs and Production Taxes, all of which are amounts contractually defined in the Conveyance. The WTI Price does not necessarily correspond to the actual price realized by BP Alaska for crude oil produced from the 1989 Working Interests, and Chargeable Costs and Production Taxes may not bear any relation to BP Alaska’s actual costs of production and tax expenses. The actual per barrel profit realized by BP Alaska on the Royalty Production may differ materially from the Per Barrel Royalty that it is required to pay to the Trust. It is possible under certain circumstances that the relationship between BP Alaska’s actual per barrel revenues and costs could be such that BP Alaska might determine to interrupt or discontinue production in whole or in part from the 1989 Working Interests even though a Per Barrel Royalty might otherwise be payable to the Trust under the Conveyance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Trust has not received any written comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) that remain unresolved. 