ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Owners of Units are exposed to risks and uncertainties that are particular to their investment. This Item describes several such risks and uncertainties, but not necessarily all of them. 22 Table of Contents • Royalty Production from the Prudhoe Bay field is projected to decline and will eventually cease. The Prudhoe Bay field has been in production since 1977. Development of the field is largely completed and proved reserves are being depleted. Production of oil and condensate from the field has been declining during recent years and the decline is expected to continue. Royalty payments to the Trust are projected to cease after 2023. Production estimates included in this report are based on economic conditions and production forecasts as of the end of 2009, and also depend on various assumptions, projections and estimates which are continually revised and updated by BP Alaska. These revisions could result in material changes to the projected declines in production. It is possible that economic production from the reserves allocated to the 1989 Working Interests could decline more quickly and end sooner than is currently projected, especially if construction of a gas pipeline makes it economical to produce natural gas from the Prudhoe Bay field on a large scale, as discussed below. • Construction of a proposed gas pipeline from the North Slope of Alaska could accelerate the decline in Royalty Production from the Prudhoe Bay field. Two competing plans for construction of a natural gas pipeline to bring natural gas from the North Slope to the U.S. market have been launched and have reached the project development stage. Two subsidiaries of Calgary-based TransCanada Corporation (“TransCanada”) have been issued a license by the state of Alaska under the Alaska Gasline Inducement Act (“AGIA”) to construct a large-diameter natural gas pipeline from the North Slope. Under the license, the state will provide up to $500 million in matching funds and other incentives in exchange for TransCanada doing its best to secure customers for the pipeline, financing, and regulatory clearances from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) and Canadian authorities. TransCanada and affiliates of ExxonMobil have combined to promote a joint venture named the “Alaska Pipeline Project.” Separately, BP and ConocoPhillips have combined resources in a joint venture called Denali — The Alaska Gas Pipeline, LLC (“Denali”) without support for the project from Alaska under the AGIA. The Alaska Pipeline Project and Denali both contemplate a large-diameter pipeline extending from the North Slope through Alaska, and then into Canada through the Yukon Territory and British Columbia to the existing Alberta Storage Hub. The Alaska Pipeline Project proposal also includes an alternative pipeline route that would extend from the North Slope to a third-party liquefied natural gas terminal near Valdez, Alaska. The Alaska Pipeline Project has issued a notice of a 90-day Open Season, beginning on April 30, 2010, to be conducted in accordance with FERC regulations. Denali plans to file a plan with FERC in April 2010 to conduct an Open Season beginning in July 2010. During their respective Open Seasons the two competing consortia will seek customers to make long-term firm transportation commitments to their respective projects. There is no assurance that either project will move from the development stage to licensing and construction of a pipeline. If either project is successful, gas could commence flowing from the North Slope to market in the lower 48 states within eight to ten years. Without a pipeline, extraction of natural gas from the Prudhoe Bay field on a large scale is not economical. Natural gas released by pumping oil is reinjected into the ground, which helps to maintain reservoir pressure and facilitates extraction of oil from the field. If a natural gas pipeline is constructed, it will make it economical to extract natural gas from the Prudhoe Bay field and transport it to the lower 48 states for sale. Extraction of natural gas from the Prudhoe Bay field will lower reservoir pressure, 23 Table of Contents although carbon dioxide stripped out of the gas can be reinjected and other methods can be employed to mitigate the reduction. The lowering of the reservoir pressure may accelerate the decline in production from the 1989 Working Interests and the time at which royalty payments to the Trust will cease. Since the Trust is not entitled to any royalty payments with respect to natural gas production from the 1989 Working Interests, the Unit holders will not realize any offsetting benefit from natural gas production from the Prudhoe Bay field. • Royalty Production from the Prudhoe Bay field may be adversely affected by the recent changes to the Alaska Production Tax Statutes. The 2007 adoption of ACES (see “THE ROYALTY INTEREST — Production Taxes” in Item 1 above) may accelerate the decline in production of oil and condensate from the Prudhoe Bay field to the extent that it has caused BP Alaska and the other owners of working interests in the Prudhoe Bay Unit to reduce or defer investment in oil production infrastructure renewal, well development and implementation of new technology. ACES, in addition to increasing the basic oil production tax rate and the progressivity factor, also eliminates or reduces many deductions and credits permitted under the 2006 Amendments. BP Alaska’s capital spending in Alaska during 2010 is expected to be approximately $850 million, down 15% from more than $1 billion during 2009. • Royalty payments by BP Alaska to the Trust are unpredictable, because they depend on Cushing, Oklahoma WTI spot prices, which have been volatile in recent years, and on the volume of production from the 1989 Working Interests, which may vary from quarter to quarter in the future. Even though WTI Prices have been rising generally in recent years, they nevertheless remain subject to significant periodic fluctuations. These fluctuations were especially pronounced during 2008 and 2009. For additional information, see the monthly history of WTI Prices since 1986 published by the U.S. Energy Information Administration at http://tonto.eia.doe.gov/dnav/pet/hist/rwtcM.htm. Recent moves in crude oil prices have been affected by many factors, including changes in demand by oil-consuming countries, the actions of OPEC to control production by members of the cartel, shifts in inventory management strategies by international oil companies, conservation measures by consumers, increasing effects of the oil futures market and other unpredictable political, psychological and economic factors including, most recently, the global economic recession. Future domestic and international events and conditions may produce wide swings in crude oil prices over relatively short periods of time. It is increasingly likely that the Trust’s revenues in future periods also will be affected by decreases in production from the 1989 Working Interests. BP Alaska’s average net production of oil and condensate allocated to the Trust from proved reserves was less than 90,000 barrels per day on an annual basis during 2008 and 2009, and the Trustee has been advised that BP Alaska expects that average net production allocated to the Trust from the proved reserves will be less than 90,000 barrels a day on an annual basis in future years. Unit holders thus are subject to the risk that cash distributions with respect to their Units may vary widely from quarter to quarter. • Prudhoe Bay field oil production could be shut in partially or entirely from time to time as a result of damage to or failures of field pipelines or equipment. In August 2006, BP Alaska shut down the eastern side of the Prudhoe Bay Unit following the discovery of unexpectedly severe corrosion and a small spill from the oil transit line on that side of the Unit. Earlier, in March of 2006, BP had to temporarily shut down and commence the replacement of a 24 Table of Contents three-mile segment of transit line on the western side of the Prudhoe Bay Unit following discovery of a large oil spill. BP Alaska completely replaced approximately 16 miles of transit lines on the eastern and western sides of the Prudhoe Bay Unit and has implemented federally-required corrosion monitoring practices. However, the discovery of additional defects in Prudhoe Bay Unit oil flowlines and transit lines, and damage to or failures of separation facilities or other critical equipment, could result in future shutdowns of oil production from all or portions of the Prudhoe Bay Unit and have an adverse effect on future royalty payments. • Oil production from the Prudhoe Bay Unit could be interrupted by damage to the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System from natural causes, accidents, deliberate attacks or declining oil flows. The Trans-Alaska Pipeline System connects the North Slope oil fields to the southern port of Valdez, almost 800 miles away. It is the only way that oil can be transported from the North Slope to market. The pipeline system crosses three mountain ranges, many rivers and streams and thaw-sensitive permafrost. It is susceptible along its length to damage from earthquakes, forest fires and other natural disasters. The pipeline system also is vulnerable to failures of pipeline segments and pumping equipment, accidental damage and deliberate attacks. Recently, the pipeline has become susceptible to damage resulting from declining flows of oil from the North Slope. Slower flows cause the temperature of the oil in the pipeline to cool faster, increasing the rate of deposit of wax, which coats pipe walls, hides corrosion and clogs sensors on smart pigs sent through the pipeline to detect it. Even lower flow rates projected in the future may lead to internal damage caused by ice formation within the pipe and external damage from frost heaves under buried segments. Major upgrades to the pipeline may be required to counteract the effects of cooler oil temperature. If the pipeline or its pumping stations should suffer major damage from natural or man-made causes, production from the Prudhoe Bay Unit could be shut in until the pipeline system can be repaired and restarted. Royalty payments to the Trust could be halted or reduced by a material amount as a result of interruption to production from the Prudhoe Bay Unit. • Production from the 1989 Working Interests may be interrupted or discontinued by BP Alaska. BP Alaska has no obligation to continue production from the 1989 Working Interests or to maintain production at any level and may interrupt or discontinue production at any time. The Trust does not have the right to take over operation of the 1989 Working Interests or share in any operating decisions by BP Alaska concerning the Prudhoe Bay Unit. The operation of the Prudhoe Bay Unit is subject to normal operating hazards incident to the production and transportation of oil in Alaska. In the event of damage to the infrastructure, facilities and equipment in the Prudhoe Bay field which is covered by insurance, BP Alaska has no obligation to use insurance proceeds to repair such damage and may elect to retain such proceeds and close damaged areas to production. • There are potential conflicts of interest between BP Alaska and the Trust that could affect the royalties paid to Unit holders. The interests of BP Alaska and the Trust with respect to the Prudhoe Bay Unit could at times be different. The Per Barrel Royalty that BP Alaska pays to the Trust is based on the WTI Price, Chargeable Costs and Production Taxes, all of which are amounts contractually defined in the Conveyance. The WTI Price does not necessarily correspond to the actual price realized by BP Alaska for crude oil produced from the 1989 Working Interests, and Chargeable Costs and Production Taxes may not bear any relation 25 Table of Contents to BP Alaska’s actual costs of production and tax expenses. The actual per barrel profit realized by BP Alaska on the Royalty Production may differ materially from the Per Barrel Royalty that it is required to pay to the Trust. It is possible under certain circumstances that the relationship between BP Alaska’s actual per barrel revenues and costs could be such that BP Alaska might determine to interrupt or discontinue production in whole or in part from the 1989 Working Interests even though a Per Barrel Royalty might otherwise be payable to the Trust under the Conveyance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Trust has not received any written comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) that remain unresolved. 