RISK FACTORS Owners of Units are exposed to risks and uncertainties that are particular to their investment. • Royalty Production from the Prudhoe Bay field is projected to decline and will eventually cease. The Prudhoe Bay field has been in production since 1977. Development of the field is largely completed and proved reserves are being depleted. Production of oil and condensate from the field has been declining during recent years and the decline is expected to continue. Royalty payments to the Trust are projected to cease after 2029. Production estimates included in this report are based on economic conditions and production forecasts as of the end of 2013, and also depend on various assumptions, projections and estimates which are continually revised and updated by BP Alaska. These revisions could result in material changes to the projected declines in production. It is possible that economic production from the reserves allocated to the 1989 Working Interests could decline more quickly and end sooner than is currently projected, especially if construction of a gas pipeline makes it economical to produce natural gas from the Prudhoe Bay field on a large scale, as discussed below. • Construction of a gas pipeline from the North Slope of Alaska could accelerate the decline in Royalty Production from the Prudhoe Bay field. The construction of a natural gas pipeline to bring natural gas from the North Slope could make it economical to extract natural gas from the Prudhoe Bay field and transport it to market. Currently, natural gas released by pumping oil is reinjected into the ground, which helps to maintain reservoir pressure and facilitates extraction of oil from the field. Extraction of natural gas from the Prudhoe Bay field would lower reservoir pressure, although carbon dioxide stripped out of the gas could be reinjected and other methods could be employed to mitigate the reduction. The lowering of the reservoir pressure could accelerate the decline in production from the 1989 Working Interests and the time at which royalty payments to the Trust would cease. Since the Trust is not entitled to any royalty payments with respect to natural gas production from the 1989 Working Interests, the Unit holders would not realize any offsetting benefit from natural gas production from the Prudhoe Bay field. 23 Table of Contents Without a pipeline, extraction of natural gas from the Prudhoe Bay field on a large scale would not be economical. In 2008, two subsidiaries of Calgary-based TransCanada Corporation (“TransCanada”) were issued a license by the state of Alaska under the Alaska Gasline Inducement Act (“AGIA”) to construct a large-diameter natural gas pipeline from the North Slope. Under the license, the state agree to provide up to $500 million in matching funds and other incentives in exchange for TransCanada doing its best to secure customers for the pipeline, financing, and regulatory clearances from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) and Canadian authorities. TransCanada and affiliates of ExxonMobil have combined to promote a joint venture named the “Alaska Pipeline Project.” The Alaska Pipeline Project originally contemplated a large-diameter pipeline extending from the North Slope through Alaska, and then into Canada through the Yukon Territory and British Columbia to the existing Alberta Storage Hub. The Alaska Pipeline Project proposal also included an alternative pipeline route that would extend from the North Slope to a third-party liquefied natural gas terminal near Valdez, Alaska. In May 2012, TransCanada terminated its open season to transport North Slope gas through its Alaska Pipeline Project due to unsuccessful efforts to secure transportation agreements. TransCanada also notified FERC in May 2012 that it was curtailing interim work on the Alberta pipeline option, but that it was working with other North Slope producers to explore the feasibility of developing a liquefied natural gas (“LNG”) export terminal at an undetermined location in South Central Alaska. TransCanada estimated that it would file an application with FERC for that project in October 2014. FERC has stopped work on an environmental impact statement for the Alberta pipeline project. In October 2012, ExxonMobil, ConocoPhillips, BP and TransCanada notified Alaska Governor Sean Parnell that they had agreed on a plan to combine what were once two competing natural gas pipeline projects destined for the continental U.S. into one project focused on export markets. The project contemplates building an 800-mile natural gas pipeline from the North Slope to a port on the southern coast of Alaska from which liquefied natural gas would be exported to Asia. The new project would also include natural gas processing facilities and a natural-gas export terminal. The announcement by the consortium followed a March 2012 settlement between the state of Alaska and the companies over a dispute relating to leases at the Point Thomson field, located east of the Prudhoe Bay field. The companies were allowed to keep their large leases in exchange for promises to begin first oil production from Point Thomson by 2016 and to combine their competing projects. On January 10, 2014, Governor Parnell announced that the state of Alaska would pursue becoming an equity partner in the Alaska natural gas pipeline project. The Governor stated that the state will terminate its involvement with TransCanada as its licensee under the AGIA, but that TransCanada would remain a partner in the project under a more traditional commercial agreement. On January 15, 2014, it was announced that ExxonMobil, BP, ConocoPhillips, TransCanada, Alaska Gasline Development Corporation (“AGDC”), and Alaska’s commissioners of natural resources and revenue had signed a heads of agreement (“HOA”) for the Alaska LNG Project, laying the commercial framework for the development of the natural gas pipeline from the North Slope to the south-central Alaska coast. The HOA parties expect the state’s participating interest in each component of the project to be 20 to 25%. ExxonMobil, BP, ConocoPhillips and TransCanada last year selected the Nikiski area of the Kenai Peninsula as the leading site for the LNG plant. The HOA terminates December 31, 2015, unless extended by mutual agreement of the parties. On January 27, 2014, legislation was introduced to authorize the state to pursue an equity position in the LNG pipeline. It is expected that the LNG export project could take a decade or more to complete due to the scale of construction and the number and complexity of technical, legal, political and financial issues involved. It is anticipated that the cost of the project could be in excess of $65 billion. However, it is expected that upon completion of the project, billions of dollars in natural gas that is now stranded on the North Slope could be transported. 24 Table of Contents It is expected that Alaskan natural gas would encounter substantial competition for customers in Asian markets, since several large liquefied natural gas projects are expected to come online in Australia in the next few years to meet Asian energy demand. There is also a more developed project to export liquefied natural gas from British Columbia, where gas production costs may be lower. • While Royalty Production from the Prudhoe Bay field may have been adversely affected by the 2007 changes to the Alaska Production Tax Statutes, the effect of the 2013 changes to the Alaska Production Tax Statutes on Royalty Production from the Prudhoe Bay field is unpredictable. The 2007 adoption of ACES (see “THE ROYALTY INTEREST – Production Taxes” in Item 1 above) may have accelerated the decline in production of oil and condensate from the Prudhoe Bay field to the extent that it caused BP Alaska and the other owners of working interests in the Prudhoe Bay Unit to reduce or defer investment in oil production infrastructure renewal, well development and implementation of new technology due to uncompetitive returns on investment in Alaska. ACES, in addition to increasing the basic oil production tax rate and the progressivity factor, also eliminated or reduced many deductions and credits permitted under the 2006 Amendments. Since 2007, BP Alaska’s spending on production adding activity, adjusted for inflation, has been flat to declining. As noted (see “THE ROYALTY INTEREST – Production Taxes” in Item 1 above), the Production Tax Statutes were amended in 2013 with the aim of encouraging oil production and investment in Alaska’s oil industry. While the Act eliminated the monthly “progressivity” tax rate implemented by 2006 Amendments and ACES and added a stair-step per-barrel tax credit for oil production, the effect these changes will have on Royalty Production is not currently discernible. • Royalty payments by BP Alaska to the Trust are unpredictable, because they depend on Cushing, Oklahoma WTI spot prices, which have been volatile in recent years, and on the volume of production from the 1989 Working Interests, which may vary from quarter to quarter in the future. Even though WTI Prices have been rising generally in recent years, they nevertheless remain subject to significant periodic fluctuations. The general trend of WTI price increases has moderated more recently as a result of increasing volumes of crude oil production from Canada and the Bakken shale formation, situated in the northwest portion of North Dakota (and extending into Montana and portions of Canada), moving into the U.S. Midwest market where most WTI is refined. With these new oil flows from Canada and the United States, Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point for WTI futures contracts on the New York Mercantile Exchange, become oversupplied in 2012, keeping the price of WTI crude oil for much of the year at a historic discount to globally traded waterborne crudes such as Brent. In the past, WTI was more likely to trade at a premium to Brent. In December 2012, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (“EIA”) used North Sea Brent instead of WTI for its price forecasts in its Annual Energy Outlook (“AEO”) 2013. This was the first time that Brent was used in the AEO, an acknowledgment of the growing discrepancy between WTI and global crude prices and of the view that Brent had become a better reflection of global oil demand and supply than WTI. In December 2013, the EIA again used Brent for price forecasts in its AEO 2014. EIA expects the discount of WTI crude oil prices to Brent to average around $12 per barrel in 2014. 25 Table of Contents As noted above, it was generally considered that the WTI spot price had been weighed down due in part to constraints on transportation of crude oil out of the U.S. Midwest market. That market has been reliant on high-cost rail and trucks to ship both crude oil stored at Cushing and production from Canada and the Bakken shale formation to the Gulf Coast. In November 2011, ConocoPhillips announced it was selling its 50% share of the Seaway crude oil pipeline, which links markets in the Houston area with oil storage facilities near Cushing, to Enbridge, Inc. Enbridge and Enterprise Products Partners, the other joint owner of Seaway, subsequently announced that Seaway intended to reverse oil flows to run north to south. Historically, pipelines have flowed from the Gulf Coast to Cushing. In May 2012, Enbridge and Enterprise completed a project to reverse the flow direction of the Seaway Pipeline. The reversed Seaway Pipeline was initially able to transport up to 150,000 barrels per day of crude oil from Cushing to the Gulf Coast. The ability to ship crude oil out of Cushing via pipeline, while not eliminating delays in moving WTI crude oil to other markets, was expected to allow WTI and similar inland U.S. crudes to compete directly with the higher-priced waterborne crude oils on the Gulf Coast (whose prices have historically closely followed Brent). As a result, it was anticipated that the price of WTI could be brought more in line with prices for other crude oils trading on the global markets. Following pump station additions and modifications, the Seaway Pipeline capacity was increased in 2013 to 400,000 barrels per day to further relieve the glut of crude oil at Cushing. A “Seaway Twin” pipeline running parallel to the reversed Seaway Pipeline and with an anticipated capacity of 450,000 barrels per day is expected to start up in the second quarter of 2014. Other pipeline projects from the Mid-continent to Gulf Coast refining centers are also expect to reduce the cost of transporting crude oil to refiners. For example, the southern leg of TransCanada’s Keystone XL pipeline network, known as the Gulf Coast Pipeline, would expand the reach of the network by adding a segment from Cushing to the Gulf Coast of Texas. In this segment, domestic oil would be added to the pipeline at Cushing and would then extend 485 miles to a delivery point near terminals in Nederland, Texas to serve the Port Arthur, Texas marketplace. Construction of a lateral line extending the system from Nederland to Houston-area refineries is under way and is expected to start up this year. On January 22, 2014, the Gulf Coast Pipeline began delivering crude oil to Texas refineries. The Gulf Coast pipeline is projected to average 520,000 barrels a day during its first year and will be expandable to transport 830,000 barrels of oil per day to Gulf Coast refineries. While energy price forecasts are highly uncertain, EIA projects that the Brent crude oil prices will average $105 per barrel and $102 per barrel in 2014 and 2015, respectively, as non-OPEC supply growth is expected to exceed the growth in world consumption. EIA forecasts that the WTI price will average $93 per barrel in 2014 and $90 per barrel in 2015. Oil production in the United States has also increased at the fastest rate in almost two decades owing, in part, to a dramatic increase in horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, and other technological advances in oil detection and extraction. This increase, according the International Energy Agency’s November 2013 World Energy Outlook, has put the U.S. on a course to become the world’s top producer of oil by 2015, five years earlier than previous forecasts. However, future domestic and international events and conditions may produce wide swings in crude oil prices over relatively short periods of time. Recent moves in crude oil prices have been affected by many factors. These include changes in demand by oil-consuming countries, the actions of OPEC to control production by members of the cartel, shifts in inventory management strategies by international oil companies, conservation measures by consumers, increasing effects of the oil futures market and other unpredictable political, psychological and economic factors, such as, most recently, the global economic recession, political turmoil in North Africa and the Middle East and ongoing tensions in the Persian Gulf over Iran’s nuclear program. 26 Table of Contents For additional information, see the history of WTI Prices since 1986 published by the U.S. Energy Information Administration at http://tonto.eia.doe.gov. It is increasingly likely that the Trust’s revenues in future periods also will be affected by decreases in production from the 1989 Working Interests. BP Alaska’s average net production of oil and condensate allocated to the Trust from proved reserves was less than 90,000 barrels per day on an annual basis during 2011, 2012 and 2013, and the Trustee has been advised that BP Alaska expects that average net production allocated to the Trust from the proved reserves will be less than 90,000 barrels a day on an annual basis in future years. Unit holders thus are subject to the risk that cash distributions with respect to their Units may vary widely from quarter to quarter. • Prudhoe Bay field oil production could be shut in partially or entirely from time to time as a result of damage to or failures of field pipelines or equipment. In August 2006, BP Alaska shut down the eastern side of the Prudhoe Bay Unit following the discovery of unexpectedly severe corrosion and a small spill from the oil transit line on that side of the Unit. Earlier, in March of 2006, BP had to temporarily shut down and commence the replacement of a three-mile segment of transit line on the western side of the Prudhoe Bay Unit following discovery of a large oil spill. BP Alaska completely replaced approximately 16 miles of transit lines on the eastern and western sides of the Prudhoe Bay Unit and has implemented federally-required corrosion monitoring practices. However, the discovery of additional defects in Prudhoe Bay Unit oil flowlines and transit lines, and damage to or failures of separation facilities or other critical equipment, could result in future shutdowns of oil production from all or portions of the Prudhoe Bay Unit and have an adverse effect on future royalty payments. • Oil production from the Prudhoe Bay Unit could be interrupted by damage to the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System from natural causes, accidents, deliberate attacks or declining oil flows. The Trans-Alaska Pipeline System connects the North Slope oil fields to the southern port of Valdez, almost 800 miles away. It is the only way that oil can be transported from the North Slope to market. The pipeline system crosses three mountain ranges, many rivers and streams and thaw-sensitive permafrost. It is susceptible along its length to damage from earthquakes, forest fires and other natural disasters. The pipeline system also is vulnerable to failures of pipeline segments and pumping equipment, accidental damage and deliberate attacks. Recently, the pipeline has become susceptible to damage resulting from declining flows of oil from the North Slope. Slower flows cause the temperature of the oil in the pipeline to cool faster, increasing the rate of deposit of wax, which coats pipe walls, hides corrosion and clogs sensors on smart pigs sent through the pipeline to detect it. Even lower flow rates projected in the future may lead to internal damage caused by ice formation within the pipe and external damage from frost heaves under buried segments. Major upgrades to the pipeline may be required to counteract the effects of cooler oil temperature. If the pipeline or its pumping stations should suffer major damage from natural or man-made causes, production from the Prudhoe Bay Unit could be shut in until the pipeline system can be repaired and restarted. Royalty payments to the Trust could be halted or reduced by a material amount as a result of interruption to production from the Prudhoe Bay Unit. In January 2011, TAPS was shut down over two periods of several days each as a result of the discovery of a leak of crude oil in the basement of a booster pump building at Pump Station No. 1. See “THE PRUDHOE BAY UNIT AND FIELD — Collection and Transportation of Prudhoe Bay Oil” in Item 1 for additional information 27 Table of Contents • Production from the 1989 Working Interests may be interrupted or discontinued by BP Alaska. BP Alaska has no obligation to continue production from the 1989 Working Interests or to maintain production at any level and may interrupt or discontinue production at any time. The Trust does not have the right to take over operation of the 1989 Working Interests or share in any operating decisions by BP Alaska concerning the Prudhoe Bay Unit. The operation of the Prudhoe Bay Unit is subject to normal operating hazards incident to the production and transportation of oil in Alaska. In the event of damage to the infrastructure, facilities and equipment in the Prudhoe Bay field which is covered by insurance, BP Alaska has no obligation to use insurance proceeds to repair such damage and may elect to retain such proceeds and close damaged areas to production. • There are potential conflicts of interest between BP Alaska and the Trust that could affect the royalties paid to Unit holders. The interests of BP Alaska and the Trust with respect to the Prudhoe Bay Unit could at times be different. The Per Barrel Royalty that BP Alaska pays to the Trust is based on the WTI Price, Chargeable Costs and Production Taxes, all of which are amounts contractually defined in the Conveyance. The WTI Price does not necessarily correspond to the actual price realized by BP Alaska for crude oil produced from the 1989 Working Interests, and Chargeable Costs and Production Taxes may not bear any relation to BP Alaska’s actual costs of production and tax expenses. The actual per barrel profit realized by BP Alaska on the Royalty Production may differ materially from the Per Barrel Royalty that it is required to pay to the Trust. It is possible under certain circumstances that the relationship between BP Alaska’s actual per barrel revenues and costs could be such that BP Alaska might determine to interrupt or discontinue production in whole or in part from the 1989 Working Interests even though a Per Barrel Royalty might otherwise be payable to the Trust under the Conveyance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Trust has not received any written comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) that remain unresolved. 