RISK FACTORS Owners of Units are exposed to risks and uncertainties that are particular to their investment. • Royalty Production from the Prudhoe Bay field is projected to decline and will eventually cease. The Prudhoe Bay field has been in production since 1977. Development of the field is largely completed and proved reserves are being depleted. Production of oil and condensate from the field has been declining during recent years and the decline is expected to continue. As discussed above under the caption “THE PRUDHOE BAY UNIT and FIELD – Reserve Estimates”, Royalty payments to the Trust, based on calculations using a 2015 WTI Price of $50.28 per barrel, among other prescribed variables, are projected to cease after 2020. 21 Table of Contents Production estimates included in this report are based on economic conditions and production forecasts as of the end of 2015, and also depend on various assumptions, projections and estimates which are continually revised and updated by BP Alaska. These revisions could result in material changes to the projected declines in production. It is possible that economic production from the reserves allocated to the 1989 Working Interests could decline more quickly and end sooner than is currently projected. • Construction of a gas pipeline from the North Slope of Alaska could accelerate the decline in Royalty Production from the Prudhoe Bay field. The construction of a natural gas pipeline to bring natural gas from the North Slope could make it economical to extract natural gas from the Prudhoe Bay field and transport it to market. Currently, natural gas released by pumping oil is reinjected into the ground, which helps to maintain reservoir pressure and facilitates extraction of oil from the field. Extraction of natural gas from the Prudhoe Bay field would lower reservoir pressure, although carbon dioxide stripped out of the gas could be reinjected and other methods could be employed to mitigate the reduction. The lowering of the reservoir pressure could accelerate the decline in production from the 1989 Working Interests and the time at which royalty payments to the Trust would cease. Since the Trust is not entitled to any royalty payments with respect to natural gas production from the 1989 Working Interests, the Unit holders would not realize any offsetting benefit from natural gas production from the Prudhoe Bay field. Without a pipeline, extraction of natural gas from the Prudhoe Bay field on a large scale would not be economical. In October 2012, ExxonMobil, ConocoPhillips, BP and Calgary-based TransCanada Corporation (“TransCanada”) notified the Alaska Governor that they had agreed on a plan to combine what were once two competing natural gas pipeline projects destined for the continental U.S. into one project focused on export markets. This project contemplates building an 800-mile natural gas pipeline from the North Slope to a port on the southern coast of Alaska from which liquified natural gas (“LNG”) would be exported to Asia. This project would also include natural gas processing facilities and a natural-gas export terminal. In January 2014, it was announced that the state of Alaska would pursue becoming an equity partner in the Alaska natural gas pipeline project and that ExxonMobil, BP, ConocoPhillips, TransCanada, Alaska Gasline Development Corporation (“AGDC”), and Alaska’s commissioners of natural resources and revenue had signed a heads of agreement (“HOA”) for the Alaska LNG Project. This established the commercial framework for the development of the natural gas pipeline from the North Slope to the south-central Alaska coast. The Nikiski area of the Kenai Peninsula has been selected as the leading site for the LNG plant. In September 2014, an application was filed with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) to begin a pre-filing process to begin preparatory work for an environmental impact statement for the project. Earlier in 2014 an application was submitted to the U.S. Department of Energy for a license to export LNG. Pre-Front End Engineering and Design work, or pre-FEED, also commenced in the summer of 2014. The proposed timeline in the FERC application contemplates that a full application will be made in September 2016. This application would include a dozen “resource reports” documenting baseline environmental and safety data along the entire project route. The companies have proposed that the FERC issue a draft environmental impact statement in October 2017 and the final environmental impact statement in March 2018. The application also requests that the commission issue an authorization for the project no later than July 2018. According to the timeline in the pre-filing, construction would start 2018-2019 and operations could begin 2024-2025. 22 Table of Contents In 2015, AGDC, BP, ConocoPhillips and ExxonMobil voted to support 2016 project funding to continue preliminary engineering efforts on the project. A key component of the approved 2016 work plan for the Alaska LNG Project includes filing a series of draft environmental and socioeconomic resource reports with the FERC. It also includes completing the feasibility evaluation and cost implications of a 48-inch diameter pipeline option, which is a variation of the existing project design basis. It is anticipated that a FEED funding decision for the Alaska LNG Project will occur in mid-2017, which is consistent with the HOA signed in 2014. The LNG export project is expected to take six to eight years to complete due to the scale of construction and the number and complexity of technical, legal, political and financial issues involved. It is anticipated that the cost of the project could be in excess of $65 billion. However, upon completion of the project, billions of dollars in natural gas currently stranded on the North Slope could be transported. It is expected that Alaskan natural gas would encounter substantial competition for customers in Asian markets, since several large liquefied natural gas projects are expected to come online in Australia in the next few years to meet Asian energy demand. There is also a more developed project to export liquefied natural gas from British Columbia, where gas production costs may be lower. • The effect of the 2013 changes to the Alaska Production Tax Statutes on Royalty Production from the Prudhoe Bay field is unpredictable. The 2007 adoption of ACES (see “THE ROYALTY INTEREST – Production Taxes” in Item 1 above) may have accelerated the decline in production of oil and condensate from the Prudhoe Bay field to the extent that it caused BP Alaska and the other owners of working interests in the Prudhoe Bay Unit to reduce or defer investment in oil production infrastructure renewal, well development and implementation of new technology due to uncompetitive returns on investment in Alaska. ACES, in addition to increasing the basic oil production tax rate and the progressivity factor, also eliminated or reduced many deductions and credits permitted under the 2006 Amendments. From 2008 through 2012, BP Alaska’s spending on production adding activity, adjusted for inflation, has been flat to declining. Such spending rose in 2013 and 2014, but declined in 2015 compared to 2014. As noted (see “THE ROYALTY INTEREST – Production Taxes” in Item 1 above), the Production Tax Statutes were amended in 2013 with the aim of encouraging oil production and investment in Alaska’s oil industry. The Act eliminated the monthly “progressivity” tax rate implemented by 2006 Amendments and ACES and added a stair-step per-barrel tax credit for oil production. Although Production Taxes have decreased following the effectiveness of the Act, the effect these changes will continue to have on Royalty Production is unpredictable. • Royalty payments by BP Alaska to the Trust are unpredictable, because they depend on Cushing, Oklahoma WTI spot prices, which are subject to volatility, and on the volume of production from the 1989 Working Interests, which may vary from quarter to quarter in the future. WTI Prices, like prices in the global crude oil market generally, are subject to periodic fluctuations and significant volatility. This is evidenced by the steep decline in WTI Prices from more than $100 per barrel in June 2014 to around $30 dollars per barrel in mid-February 2016. Even before this plunge in price, what had been a general trend of WTI price increases had moderated as a result of increasing volumes of crude oil production from Canada and the Bakken shale formation, situated in the northwest portion of North Dakota (and extending into Montana and portions of Canada), moving into the U.S. Midwest market. 23 Table of Contents Oil production in the United States also surged owing, in part, to a dramatic increase in horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, and other technological advances in oil detection and extraction. While U.S. output has fallen in recent months, the reduction has happened more slowly than generally expected. This great increase in output from the U.S. helped lead to the oversupply in the global crude market. As United States domestic production nearly doubled over the last several years, the amount of oil imported into the United States declined. Countries like Saudi Arabia, Nigeria and Algeria that once sold their oil in the United States have been forced to compete for Asian markets, and such producers have been forced to sell at lower prices. While the global crude oil market has been oversupplied, global demand has been declining, with the result that global oil prices dropped more than 70% from June 2014 through the middle of February 2016. The International Energy Agency reported in January 2016 that crude oil prices are likely to fall even further due to the world’s vast oversupply of petroleum. Commercial oil stockpiles rose to more than three billion barrels in December 2015 and, according to the IEA, are likely to keep building in the first quarter of 2016, a period of the year when stockpiles typically decrease. Also, according to the U.S. Energy Information Agency, crude stockpiles in the U.S. were at the highest level in more than 80 years as of February 12, 2016. Moreover, the IEA has said that risks to growth in Brazil and Russia and slower growth in China may have negative effects on oil consumption this year, with the result that growth in global oil demand is expected by the IEA to decline to 1.2 million barrels a day in 2016 compared with 1.6 million barrels a day in 2015. It is anticipated that global oil prices could remain low for a significant period unless drastic production cuts help to reduce the global oversupply. However, despite this oversupply, major oil suppliers within OPEC, as well as other large producers, such as Russia and U.S., have been unwilling to cut output in order to defend their shares of the market. OPEC has historically cut production when oil prices are low, but the group has chosen not to take such action in the past two years. Both Saudi Arabia and Russia sharply raised their oil output in 2015. According to the International Energy Agency, Russia and Saudi Arabia produced, respectively, 11.1 million and 10.1 million barrels a day of oil in 2015. According to analysts, if each of these countries cut production by 5%, global oil output would fall by more than a million barrels a day, which is approximately equal to the current oversupply in the market. In justifying its increased production, Saudi Arabia has claimed that cuts in its production would allow higher-cost producers in the U.S. and elsewhere to drill more wells. Russian officials have consistently said they would not cut production because it would be difficult to restart wells in cold oil-producing regions. Another difficulty for Russia in reducing production is the fact that its oil output is controlled by multiple companies rather than one national oil company, as in Saudi Arabia. An additional concern is that Iran is expected to increase its production in the coming months as a result of the lifting of international sanctions relating to its nuclear program. Nevertheless, financial difficulties for a number of large oil-producing nations have intensified in the past year, as oil prices have fallen to 12-year lows. As currencies of commodity-producing countries have weakened and government revenues have been reduced, nations have been forced to cut spending and draw on reserves. As a result, some members of OPEC, including Venezuela and Nigeria, have repeatedly requested that OPEC act to support oil prices. In response to these continuing pressures, Saudi Arabia, Russia, Qatar and Venezuela announced on February 16, 2016, that they proposed freezing crude-oil production at January 2016 levels. This was the first coordinated action to support oil prices in years. However, under the agreement, Iran and Iraq must also agree to suspend production increases. Iraq’s production has increased significantly as it attempts to increase revenue to combat the Islamic State while Iran, as noted above, has been trying to increase its 24 Table of Contents production following the end of Western sanctions over its nuclear program. Both Iraq and Iran have indicated that they would welcome moves to stabilize the market and to prop up oil prices. However, Iran has stated that it is unwilling to freeze production and Iraq in turn indicated that it would not participate in the freeze unless there is complete agreement among producers. Saudi Arabia’s oil minister in turn has stated that there will not be a coordinated production cut among large oil producing nations. With specific reference to WTI prices, because of new oil flows from Canada and the United States, Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point for WTI futures contracts on the New York Mercantile Exchange, has in prior periods occasionally become oversupplied. Historically, this market had been reliant on high-cost rail and trucks to ship both crude oil stored at Cushing and production from Canada and the Bakken shale formation to the Gulf Coast. These constraints on transportation of crude oil out of the U.S. Midwest market, together with the great increase in production in North America and the decades-long U.S. ban on crude oil exports, helped to weigh down WTI spot prices for several years and kept the price of WTI crude oil at a historic discount to globally traded waterborne crudes such as Brent. In the past, WTI was more likely to trade at a premium to Brent. These transportation problems have been largely resolved. In May 2012, Enbridge, Inc. and Enterprise Products Partners, joint owners of the Seaway crude oil pipeline, which links markets in the Houston area with oil storage facilities near Cushing, completed a project to reverse the flow direction of the Seaway Pipeline to run north to south. Historically, pipelines have flowed from the Gulf Coast to Cushing. Following pump station additions and modifications, the capacity of the reversed Seaway Pipeline was increased to carry 400,000 barrels per day of crude oil to the Gulf Coast. A “Seaway Twin” pipeline running parallel to the reversed Seaway Pipeline with a capacity to carry an additional 450,000 barrels a day came online in December 2014. Other pipeline projects from the mid-continent to Gulf Coast refining centers have also helped reduce the cost of transporting crude oil to refiners. This expansion of pipeline capacity from Cushing to Gulf Coast refineries relieved the mid-continent bottleneck by transporting the excessive inventories that had built up in Cushing. However, the continued increase of U.S. oil production, additional pipelines bringing more oil from Colorado, North Dakota and Canada into Cushing and the reduction in global demand for crude oil resulted once again in bringing inventories at Cushing to record levels in February 2016. In a recent development, refineries in the Midwest have reduced gasoline production due to an increase in inventories. This reduction in activity could lead to a decrease in the amount of crude oil purchased by refineries. Such a cutback in crude oil purchases could contribute further to the growing crude oil inventories at Cushing. Despite the forces currently weighing on global oil prices, the ability to ship crude oil out of Cushing via pipeline has allowed WTI and similar inland U.S. crudes to compete directly with the higher-priced waterborne crude oils on the Gulf Coast (whose prices have historically closely followed Brent). This ability helped bring the price of WTI more in line with prices for other crude oils trading on the global markets. After diverging in 2011 to a high of around $30 per barrel, with Brent the more expensive oil, the spread between WTI and Brent has gradually decreased as a result of the new crude pipeline construction and crude pipeline flow reversals. Other factors have the potential to further reduce the spread between the Brent price and the price of U.S. domestic production. For example, in addition to the lack of pipeline capacity, as discussed above, the WTI/Brent spread has been influenced by the U.S. ban on crude oil exports introduced in the 1970’s. That ban was lifted in December 2015 and it is expected that the lifting of the export ban will help contribute to the use of WTI as a global benchmark. • The amount and value of reserves attributable to the Trust, the estimated life of the Trust, estimates of future net revenues and estimates of the present value of future net revenues fluctuate based on the WTI Price, among other factors. WTI Prices may be below the “break-even” point for daily royalty calculations. As discussed above under “THE ROYALTY INTEREST” in Item 1, revenues to the Trust are calculated daily by BP Alaska using the WTI price, production tax, and other variables as prescribed by the Conveyance applicable on that specific day. On January 1, 2016 the “break-even” WTI price (at which all taxes and prescribed deductions are equal to the WTI price) was $32.25.7 7 The fixed Chargeable Cost increases specified in the Conveyance will impact the “break-even” price in future years. 25 Table of Contents The quarterly royalty payment by BP Alaska to the Trust is the sum of the individual revenues calculated each day during the quarter. In the event that one or more daily calculations results in a negative amount, the total of such daily negative amounts during that calendar quarter would be subtracted from total daily positive amounts during such quarter to determine the royalty payment for such quarter, provided, that in no event will any quarterly royalty payment be less than zero. The estimated future net revenues and present value of estimated future net revenues reported herein are calculated based on a single average WTI price, that being the average of 12 WTI values, each value representing the WTI price in effect on the first calendar day of the month for the 12 months prior to January 1, 2016. As a result, any single calculation of a calendar day will not reflect the value of the dividend paid to the Trust for any quarter, nor will it reflect the estimated future value of the Trust or the estimation of how long royalty payments to the Trust will continue. Based on the 2015 twelve-month average WTI Price of $50.28 per barrel, current Production Taxes, and the Chargeable Costs adjusted as prescribed by the Overriding Royalty Conveyance, it is estimated that royalty payments to the Trust will continue through the year 2020, and would be zero in the following year. Therefore, no proved reserves are currently attributed to the BP Prudhoe Bay Royalty Trust after that date. Even if expected reservoir performance does not change, the estimated reserves, economic life and future net revenues attributable to the Trust may change significantly in the future as a result of sustained periods of change in the WTI Price, the Production Tax or from changes in other prescribed variables utilized in calculations as defined by the Overriding Royalty Conveyance. Such changes could result in the termination of royalty payments prior to 2020. While energy price forecasts are highly uncertain, EIA forecasts that Brent and WTI crude oil prices will both average $38 per barrel in 2016 and $50 per barrel in 2017. As discussed under “THE PRUDHOE BAY UNIT AND FIELD – Reserve Estimates”, the amount and value of reserves attributable to the Trust and the estimated life of the Trust fluctuate based on changes to certain prescribed factors, including the WTI price. While WTI prices at the level forecast by EIA should, subject to the effect of the other prescribed variables, result in positive royalty payments to the Trust, if such prices were to constitute the 2016 or 2017 twelve-month average WTI Price (that is, the unweighted arithmetic average of the WTI price on the first day of each month during the year), such WTI Prices would be lower than the 2015 twelve-month average WTI Price of $50.28. This may result, subject to the effect of the other prescribed variables, in substantial decreases in the value and the estimated life of the Trust as calculated for such periods compared to the 2015 calculations set forth under “THE PRUDHOE BAY UNIT AND FIELD – Reserve Estimates”. However, future domestic and international events and conditions may produce wide swings in crude oil prices over relatively short periods of time. Recent moves in crude oil prices have been affected by many factors. These include reduced demand due to weak economic activity, increased efficiency, increased demand for other types of fuel, strong production growth, new supplies from tight and shale resources, the unwillingness of OPEC to intervene to stabilize oversupplied crude oil markets by cutting production in order to preserve market share, shifts in inventory management strategies by international oil companies, conservation measures by consumers, increasing effects of the oil futures market and other unpredictable political, geopolitical, psychological and economic factors, such as expectations for global economic growth and political turmoil in North Africa, the Middle East and ongoing tensions in other regions of the world. For additional information, see the history of WTI Prices since 1986 published by the U.S. Energy Information Administration at http://tonto.eia.doe.gov. It is increasingly likely that the Trust’s revenues in future periods also will be affected by decreases in production from the 1989 Working Interests. BP Alaska’s average net production of oil and condensate allocated to the Trust from proved reserves was less than 90,000 barrels per day on an annual basis during 2013, 2014 and 2015, and the Trustee has been advised that BP Alaska expects that average net production allocated to the Trust from the proved reserves will be less than 90,000 barrels a day on an annual basis in future years. Unit holders thus are subject to the risk that cash distributions with respect to their Units may vary widely from quarter to quarter. • Prudhoe Bay field oil production could be shut in partially or entirely from time to time as a result of damage to or failures of field pipelines or equipment. In August 2006, BP Alaska shut down the eastern side of the Prudhoe Bay Unit following the discovery of unexpectedly severe corrosion and a small spill from the oil transit line on that side of the Unit. Earlier, in March of 2006, BP had to temporarily shut down and commence the replacement of a three-mile segment of transit line on the western side of the Prudhoe Bay Unit following discovery of a large oil spill. 26 Table of Contents BP Alaska completely replaced approximately 16 miles of transit lines on the eastern and western sides of the Prudhoe Bay Unit and has implemented federally-required corrosion monitoring practices. However, the discovery of additional defects in Prudhoe Bay Unit oil flowlines and transit lines, and damage to or failures of separation facilities or other critical equipment, could result in future shutdowns of oil production from all or portions of the Prudhoe Bay Unit and have an adverse effect on future royalty payments. • Oil production from the Prudhoe Bay Unit could be interrupted by damage to the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System from natural causes, accidents, deliberate attacks or declining oil flows. The Trans-Alaska Pipeline System connects the North Slope oil fields to the southern port of Valdez, almost 800 miles away. It is the only way that oil can be transported from the North Slope to market. The pipeline system crosses three mountain ranges, many rivers and streams and thaw-sensitive permafrost. It is susceptible along its length to damage from earthquakes, forest fires and other natural disasters. The pipeline system also is vulnerable to failures of pipeline segments and pumping equipment, accidental damage and deliberate attacks. Recently, the pipeline has become susceptible to damage resulting from declining flows of oil from the North Slope. Slower flows cause the temperature of the oil in the pipeline to cool faster, increasing the rate of deposit of wax, which coats pipe walls, hides corrosion and clogs sensors on smart pigs sent through the pipeline to detect it. Even lower flow rates projected in the future may lead to internal damage caused by ice formation within the pipe and external damage from frost heaves under buried segments. Major upgrades to the pipeline may be required to counteract the effects of cooler oil temperature. If the pipeline or its pumping stations should suffer major damage from natural or man-made causes, production from the Prudhoe Bay Unit could be shut in until the pipeline system can be repaired and restarted. Royalty payments to the Trust could be halted or reduced by a material amount as a result of interruption to production from the Prudhoe Bay Unit. In January 2011, TAPS was shut down over two periods of several days each as a result of the discovery of a leak of crude oil in the basement of a booster pump building at Pump Station No. 1. See “THE PRUDHOE BAY UNIT AND FIELD — Collection and Transportation of Prudhoe Bay Oil” in Item 1 for additional information. In January 2015, President Obama proposed designating 12 million of the 19 million acres of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge as wilderness. The wilderness designation, which is the highest form of protection the federal government can give to public lands, would prohibit numerous activities, such as drilling for oil and gas and road construction. The President also proposed limiting offshore leasing in Alaska’s Beaufort and Chukchi Seas and blocking drilling in some portions of the National Petroleum Reserve. These actions could prohibit new oil production in much of Alaska. As noted above, without more crude oil to be transported by TAPS, which has had declining volumes over the last decade, slower flows and freezing temperatures could eventually force the closure of the pipeline, making it impossible to transport oil from the North Slope to market. • Production from the 1989 Working Interests may be interrupted or discontinued by BP Alaska. BP Alaska has no obligation to continue production from the 1989 Working Interests or to maintain production at any level and may interrupt or discontinue production at any time. The Trust does not have the right to take over operation of the 1989 Working Interests or share in any operating decisions by BP Alaska concerning the Prudhoe Bay Unit. The operation of the Prudhoe Bay Unit is subject to normal operating hazards incident to the production and transportation of oil in Alaska. In the event of damage to the infrastructure, facilities and equipment in the Prudhoe Bay field which is covered by insurance, BP Alaska has no obligation to use insurance proceeds to repair such damage and may elect to retain such proceeds and close damaged areas to production. 27 Table of Contents • There are potential conflicts of interest between BP Alaska and the Trust that could affect the royalties paid to Unit holders. The interests of BP Alaska and the Trust with respect to the Prudhoe Bay Unit could at times be different. The Per Barrel Royalty that BP Alaska pays to the Trust is based on the WTI Price, Chargeable Costs and Production Taxes, all of which are amounts contractually defined in the Conveyance. The WTI Price does not necessarily correspond to the actual price realized by BP Alaska for crude oil produced from the 1989 Working Interests, and Chargeable Costs and Production Taxes may not bear any relation to BP Alaska’s actual costs of production and tax expenses. The actual per barrel profit realized by BP Alaska on the Royalty Production may differ materially from the Per Barrel Royalty that it is required to pay to the Trust. It is possible under certain circumstances that the relationship between BP Alaska’s actual per barrel revenues and costs could be such that BP Alaska might determine to interrupt or discontinue production in whole or in part from the 1989 Working Interests even though a Per Barrel Royalty might otherwise be payable to the Trust under the Conveyance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Trust has not received any written comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) that remain unresolved. 