ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could affect the Company’s business, financial results and results of operations. In addition, refer to the risk factors disclosed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Forward-looking Information”, listed on page F-1 of this report for certain important factors that may cause our financial condition and results of operations to differ materially from current expectations. The risks that the Company has highlighted in these two sections of this report are not the only ones that the Company faces. In this discussion, the Company is also referred to as “our”, “we” and “us”. The Company’s business involves various risks and uncertainties which are based on the lines of business the Company writes as well as more global risks associated with the general business and insurance industry environments. 24 Table of Contents The insurance industry is highly regulated. We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which we do business. Each jurisdiction has a unique and complex set of laws and regulations. Furthermore, certain federal laws impose additional requirements on businesses, including insurers. Regulation generally is designed to protect the interests of policyholders, as opposed to stockholders and non-policyholder creditors. Such regulations, among other things, impose restrictions on the amount and type of investments our subsidiaries may hold. Certain states also regulate the rates insurers may charge for certain property and casualty products. Legislation and voter initiatives have expanded, in some instances, the states’ regulation of rates and have increased data reporting requirements. Consumer-related pressures to roll back rates, even if not enacted by legislation or upheld upon judicial appeal, may affect our ability to obtain timely rate increases or operate at desired levels of profitability. Changes in insurance regulations, including those affecting the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to distribute cash to us and those affecting the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to write profitable property and casualty insurance policies in one or more states, may adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of our insurance subsidiaries. Our ability to comply with these laws and regulations, at a reasonable cost, and to obtain necessary regulatory action in a timely manner, is and will continue to be critical to our success. Examples of governmental regulation that has adversely affected the operations of our insurance subsidiaries include: • the adoption in several states of legislation and other regulatory action intended to reduce the premiums paid for automobile and homeowners insurance by residents of those states; • restrictions on a company’s ability to achieve pricing adequacy and/or reduce their volume of business in catastrophe prone areas; and • requirements that insurance companies: • pay assessments to support associations that fund state-sponsored insurance operations, or • involuntarily issue policies for high-risk automobile drivers. Regulation that could adversely affect our insurance subsidiaries also includes statutory surplus and risk-based capital requirements. Maintaining appropriate levels of surplus, as measured by statutory accounting principles, is considered important by state insurance regulatory authorities and the private agencies that rate insurers’ claims-paying abilities and financial strength. The failure of an insurance subsidiary to maintain levels of statutory surplus that are sufficient for the amount of its insurance written could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, action by state regulatory authorities or a downgrade by rating agencies. Similarly, the NAIC has adopted a system of assessing minimum capital adequacy that is applicable to our insurance subsidiaries. This system, known as risk-based capital, is used to identify companies that may merit further regulatory action by analyzing the adequacy of the insurer’s surplus in relation to statutory requirements. 25 Table of Contents Because state legislatures remain concerned about the availability and affordability of property and casualty insurance and the protection of policyholders, our insurance subsidiaries expect that they will continue to face efforts by those legislatures to expand regulations to cover these concerns. For example, in the January 2007 special session, the Florida legislature passed a bill that would essentially allow the state to assume most of the catastrophe reinsurance exposure in Florida at below market rates and also to increase its participation in the personal homeowners insurance market. Legislation such as this could adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of our insurance subsidiaries. In the event of the insolvency, liquidation or other reorganization of any of our insurance subsidiaries, our creditors and stockholders would have no right to proceed against any such insurance subsidiary or to cause the liquidation or bankruptcy of any such insurance subsidiary under federal or state bankruptcy laws. The insurance laws of the domiciliary state would govern such proceedings and the relevant insurance commissioner would act as liquidator or rehabilitator for the insurance subsidiary. Creditors and policyholders of any such insurance subsidiary would be entitled to payment in full from the assets of the insurance subsidiary before we, as a stockholder, would be entitled to receive any distribution. The financial position of our insurance subsidiaries also may be affected by court decisions that expand insurance coverage beyond the intention of the insurer at the time it originally issued an insurance policy. The insurance industry is highly cyclical. The results of companies in the insurance industry historically have been subject to significant fluctuations due to competition, economic conditions, interest rates and other factors. In particular, companies in the property and casualty insurance segment of the industry historically have experienced pricing and profitability cycles. With respect to these cycles, the factors having the greatest impact include intense price competition, less restrictive underwriting standards, aggressive marketing and increased advertising, which have resulted in higher industry-wide combined loss and expense ratios. The personal lines insurance and annuity markets are highly competitive and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by competitive forces. We operate in a highly competitive environment and compete with numerous insurance companies, as well as mutual fund families, independent agent companies and financial planners. In some instances and geographic locations, competitors have specifically targeted the educator marketplace with specialized products and programs. We compete in our target market with a number of national providers of personal automobile and homeowners insurance and life insurance and annuities. The insurance industry consists of a large number of insurance companies, some of which have substantially greater financial resources, more diversified product lines and lower cost marketing approaches, such as direct marketing, mail, Internet and telemarketing, compared to us. In our target market, we believe that the principal competitive factors in the sale of property and casualty insurance products are price, service, name recognition and education association sponsorships. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the sale of life insurance and annuity products are product features, perceived stability of the insurer, service, name recognition, price and education association sponsorships. 26 Table of Contents Particularly in the property and casualty business, our insurance subsidiaries have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, periods of intense competition during which they are unable to increase prices sufficiently to cover costs. The inability of an insurance subsidiary to compete successfully in the property and casualty business would adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations and its resulting ability to distribute cash to us. For our annuity business, in addition to insurance companies, mutual funds and banks are increasingly strong competitors in the 403(b) and tax deferred annuity products markets. The inability of an insurance subsidiary to compete successfully in these markets would adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations and its resulting ability to distribute cash to us. Litigation may harm our financial strength or reduce our profitability. Companies in the insurance industry have been subject to substantial litigation resulting from claims, disputes and other matters. Most recently, they have faced expensive claims, including class action lawsuits, alleging, among other things, improper sales practices and improper claims settlement procedures. Negotiated settlements of certain such actions have had a material adverse effect on many insurance companies. The resolution of such claims against any of our insurance subsidiaries, including the potential adverse effect on our reputation and charges against the earnings of our insurance subsidiaries as a result of legal defense costs, a settlement agreement or an adverse finding or findings against our insurance subsidiaries in such a claim, could materially adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of our insurance subsidiaries. A reduction or elimination of the tax advantages of life and annuity products could make our products less attractive to clients and adversely affect our operating results. A significant part of our annuity business involves fixed and variable 403(b) tax-qualified annuities, which are annuities purchased voluntarily by individuals employed by public school systems or other tax-exempt organizations. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations that affect the relative tax and other advantages of our life and annuity products to customers, including adverse changes in IRS regulations governing 403(b) plans such as those currently being proposed. Current federal income tax laws generally permit the tax-deferred accumulation of earnings on the premiums paid by the holders of annuities and life insurance products. Taxes, if any, are payable on income attributable to a distribution under the contract for the year in which the distribution is made. From time to time, Congress has considered legislation that would reduce or eliminate the benefit of such deferral of taxation on the accretion of value with life insurance and non-qualified annuity contracts. Enactment of this legislation, including a simplified “flat tax” income structure with an exemption from taxation for investment income, could result in fewer sales of our life insurance and annuity products. 27 Table of Contents Our property and casualty loss reserves may not be adequate. Our property and casualty insurance subsidiaries maintain loss reserves to provide for their estimated ultimate liability for losses and loss adjustment expenses with respect to reported and unreported claims incurred as of the end of each accounting period. If these loss reserves prove inadequate, we will record a loss measured by the amount of the shortfall and, as a result, the financial condition and results of operations of our insurance subsidiaries will be adversely affected, potentially affecting their ability to distribute cash to us. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Reserves represent estimates, generally involving actuarial projections at a given time, of what our insurance subsidiaries expect the ultimate settlement and adjustment of claims will cost, net of salvage and subrogation. Estimates are based on assessments of known facts and circumstances, assumptions related to the ultimate cost to settle such claims, estimates of future trends in claims severity and frequency, changing judicial theories of liability and other factors. These variables are affected by both internal and external events, including changes in claims handling procedures, economic inflation, unpredictability of court decisions, plaintiffs’ expanded theories of liability, risks inherent in major litigation and legislative changes. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. Significant reporting lags may exist between the occurrence of an insured event and the time it is actually reported. Our insurance subsidiaries adjust their reserve estimates regularly as experience develops and further claims are reported and settled. Due to the inherent uncertainty in estimating reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses, we cannot be certain that the ultimate liability will not exceed amounts reserved, with a resulting adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Deviations from assumptions regarding future persistency, mortality, morbidity, interest spreads and market appreciation used in calculating life and annuity reserves and deferred policy acquisition expense amounts could have a material adverse impact on our net income. The process of calculating reserve and deferred policy acquisition expense amounts for our life and annuity businesses involve the use of a number of assumptions, including those related to persistency (how long a contract stays with the company), mortality (the relative incidence of death over a given period of time), morbidity (the relative incidence of disability resulting from disease or physical impairment), interest spreads (the interest rates expected to be received on investments less the rate of interest credited to contractholders) and market appreciation (the rate of growth in market value of the underlying variable annuity subaccounts due to price appreciation). We periodically review the adequacy of these reserves and deferred policy acquisition expenses on an aggregate basis and, if future experience differs significantly from assumptions, adjustments to reserves and deferred policy acquisition expenses may be required which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any downgrade in or decline in outlook for our claims-paying, financial strength or credit ratings could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Claims-paying and financial strength ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. In the evolving 403(b) annuity market, school districts may be placing increased emphasis on the relative financial strength ratings of competing companies. Each rating agency reviews its ratings periodically and from time to time may modify its rating criteria including, among other factors, its expectations regarding 28 Table of Contents capital adequacy, profitability and revenue growth. A downgrade in the ratings or adverse change in the ratings outlook of any of our insurance subsidiaries by a major rating agency could result in a substantial loss of business for that subsidiary if school districts, policyholders or independent agents move their business to other companies having higher claims-paying and financial strength ratings than we do. This loss of business could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of that subsidiary. A downgrade in our holding company debt rating could also adversely impact our cost and flexibility of borrowing which could have an adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Reduction of the statutory surplus of our insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect their ability to write insurance business. Insurance companies write business based, in part, upon guidelines including a ratio of premiums to surplus for property and casualty insurance companies and a ratio of reserves to surplus for life insurance companies. If our insurance subsidiaries cannot maintain profitability in the future, they may be required to draw on their surplus in order to pay dividends to us to enable us to meet our financial obligations. As their surplus is reduced by the payment of dividends, continuing losses or both, our insurance subsidiaries’ ability to write business and maintain acceptable financial strength ratings could also be reduced. This could have a material adverse effect upon the business volume and profitability of our insurance subsidiaries. If we are not able to effectively develop and expand our agency operations, including our agent force and their licensed product specialists and support staff, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success in marketing and selling our products is largely dependent upon the efforts of our exclusive sales force of full-time employee agents and the success of their agency operations. As we expand our business, we may need to expand our agencies to market our products. If we are unable to hire additional agents, fail to retain our current agents or are unable to increase the productivity of our agency operations, sales of our products would likely decline and our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. In 2006, we began transitioning from a single-person agent operation to our new Agency Business Model, with agents in outside offices with support personnel and licensed product specialists, designed to remove capacity constraints and increase productivity. If we and our agency force are unable to successfully implement this approach to expanding our points of distribution and further increasing the productivity of our agents, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are not able to maintain and secure 1) product sponsorships and other relationships with the educational community and 2) payroll reduction authorizations, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Horace Mann has had a long relationship with the NEA, the nation’s largest confederation of state and local teachers’ associations, and many of the state and local education associations affiliated with the NEA. In addition to these organizations, we have established relationships with various other educator, principal and school administrator groups. These contacts and endorsements help to establish our brand name and presence in the educational community and to enhance our access to educators. 29 Table of Contents In addition, one of the keys to the successful sale of our 403(b) tax-qualified annuity products is our ability to obtain payroll reduction authorization from school districts and product sponsorships from local, state and national education associations. In late 2004, the IRS issued proposed regulations regarding Section 403(b) arrangements, including annuities. The proposed regulations would alter the nature of 403(b) arrangements to an employer-sponsored plan. This would be a potentially significant change from the historical view of 403(b) arrangements being individual plans funded by salary reduction. This could prompt school district sponsors of 403(b) arrangements to reconsider the companies permitted to offer products to fund such arrangements within their district, and potentially reduce the number of authorized providers. Such actions present the threat of losing certain current payroll reduction authorizations and sponsorships, and the potential for lost sales and resulting revenues in those school districts, as well as the opportunity to increase penetration in school districts where we remain as one of a reduced number of approved providers. If these proposed regulations are adopted, our ability to maintain and grow our share of the 403(b) market will depend on our ability to successfully adapt our products, services offered, and administrative systems, which could potentially increase our cost of doing business in this market. School districts may also place additional emphasis on the relative financial strength ratings of competing companies. At the time of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we anticipate that the proposed changes would not occur prior to January 1, 2008. Also, the final form of any changes, their timing or their impact on the Section 403(b) market is unknown. Catastrophic events can have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Underwriting results of property and casualty insurers are subject to weather and other conditions prevailing in an accident year. While one year may be relatively free of major weather or other disasters, another year may have numerous such events causing results for such a year to be materially worse than for other years. Our property and casualty insurance subsidiaries have experienced, and we anticipate that in the future they will continue to experience, catastrophe losses. A catastrophic event or a series of multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of our insurance subsidiaries. Various events can cause catastrophes, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, terrorism, explosions, severe winter weather and wildfires. The frequency and severity of these catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposures in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Although catastrophes can cause losses in a variety of property and casualty lines, most of the catastrophe-related claims of our insurance subsidiaries are related to homeowners’ coverages. Our ability to provide accurate estimates of ultimate catastrophe costs is based on several factors, including: • the proximity of the catastrophe occurrence date to the date of our estimate; • potential inflation of property repair costs in the affected area; • the occurrence of multiple catastrophes in a geographic area over a relatively short period of time; and • the outcome of litigation which may be filed against the Company by policyholders, state attorneys general and other parties relative to loss coverage disputes and loss settlement payments. 30 Table of Contents Based on 2006 direct premiums earned, approximately 57% of the total annual premiums for our property and casualty business were for policies issued in the ten largest states in which our insurance subsidiaries write property and casualty coverage. Included in this top ten group are certain states which are considered to be more prone to catastrophe occurrences: Florida, California, North Carolina, Texas, Louisiana and South Carolina. As an ongoing practice, but particularly following the significant catastrophic claims from hurricanes in 2005 and 2004, we attempt to manage our exposure to catastrophes. Reductions in property and casualty business written in catastrophe-prone areas may have a negative impact on near-term business growth and earnings. In addition to the potential impact on our property and casualty subsidiaries, our life subsidiary could experience claims of a catastrophic magnitude from events such as pandemics; terrorism; nuclear, biological or chemical explosions; or other acts of war. Our insurance subsidiaries seek to reduce their exposure to catastrophe losses through their underwriting strategies and the purchase of catastrophe reinsurance. Nevertheless, reinsurance may prove inadequate if: • a major catastrophic loss exceeds the reinsurance limit; • a series of major catastrophic events in a single year exhaust the reinsurance coverage; or • an insurance subsidiary incurs multiple, smaller catastrophic losses which, individually, do not exceed the subsidiary’s loss retention level. Uncollectible reinsurance, as well as reinsurance availability and pricing, can have a material adverse effect upon our business volume and profitability. Reinsurance is a contract by which one insurer, called a reinsurer, agrees to cover a portion of the losses incurred by a second insurer in the event a claim is made under a policy issued by the second insurer. Our insurance subsidiaries obtain reinsurance to help manage their exposure to property, casualty and life insurance risks. Although a reinsurer is liable to our insurance subsidiaries according to the terms of its reinsurance policy, the insurance subsidiaries remain primarily liable as the direct insurers on all risks reinsured. As a result, reinsurance does not eliminate the obligation of our insurance subsidiaries to pay all claims, and each insurance subsidiary is subject to the risk that one or more of its reinsurers will be unable or unwilling to honor its obligations. Although we limit participation in our reinsurance programs to reinsurers with high financial strength ratings, our insurance subsidiaries cannot guarantee that their reinsurers will pay in a timely fashion, if at all. Reinsurers may become financially unsound by the time that they are called upon to pay amounts due, which may not occur for many years. In the case of the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund, financial deficits may require additional assessments against participating insurers. Additionally, the availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions beyond our control. For example, the significant level of losses from hurricanes in 2005 and 2004 and the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 have had a significant adverse impact on the reinsurance market. 31 Table of Contents If one of our insurance subsidiaries is unable to obtain adequate reinsurance at reasonable rates, that insurance subsidiary would have to increase its risk exposure and/or reduce the level of its underwriting commitments, which could have a material adverse effect upon the business volume and profitability of the subsidiary. Alternately, the insurance subsidiary could elect to pay the higher than reasonable rates for reinsurance coverage, which could have a material adverse effect upon its profitability until policy premium rates could be raised to incorporate this additional cost. Losses due to defaults by others could reduce our profitability or negatively affect the value of our investments. Third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets may not pay or perform their obligations. These parties may include the issuers whose securities we hold, borrowers under mortgage loans, customers, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, reinsurers, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, downturns in the economy or real estate values, operational failure or other reasons. The default of a major market participant could disrupt the securities markets or clearance and settlement systems in the U.S. or abroad. A failure of a major market participant could cause some clearance and settlement systems to assess members of that system, including our broker-dealer subsidiary, or could lead to a chain of defaults that could adversely affect us. A default of a major market participant could disrupt various markets, which could in turn cause market declines or volatility and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. If our investment strategy is not successful, we could suffer unexpected losses. The success of our investment strategy is crucial to the success of our business. Specifically, our fixed income portfolio is subject to a number of risks including: • market value risk, which is the risk that our invested assets will decrease in value due to a change in the yields realized on our assets and prevailing market yields for similar assets, an unfavorable change in the liquidity of the investment or an unfavorable change in the financial prospects or a downgrade in the credit rating of the issuer of the investment; • credit risk, which is the risk that the value of certain investments becomes impaired due to deterioration in financial condition of one or more issuers of those instruments and, ultimately, the risk of permanent loss in the event of default by an issuer; • reinvestment risk, which is the risk that interest rates will decline and funds reinvested will earn less than expected; • concentration risk, which is the risk that the portfolio may be too heavily concentrated in the securities of one or more issuers, sectors or industries, which could result in a significant decrease in the value of the portfolio in the event of deterioration in the financial condition of those issuers or the market value of their securities; and • liquidity risk, which is the risk that liabilities are surrendered or mature sooner than anticipated requiring us to sell assets at an undesirable time to provide for policyholder surrenders, withdrawals or claims. We attempt to mitigate these risks through product pricing, product features and the establishment of policy reserves, but we cannot provide assurance that assets will be properly matched to meet anticipated liabilities or that our investments will provide sufficient returns to enable us to satisfy our guaranteed fixed benefit obligations. 32 Table of Contents From time to time, we could also enter into foreign currency, interest rate and credit derivatives and other hedging transactions in an effort to manage risks. We cannot provide assurance that we will successfully structure those derivatives and hedges so as to effectively manage these risks. If our calculations are incorrect, or if we do not properly structure our derivatives or hedges, we may have unexpected losses and our assets may not be adequate to meet our needed reserves, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The result of any investment activity is determined to a significant degree by general economic conditions, which may adversely affect the markets for interest rate sensitive securities, including the level and volatility of interest rates and the extent and timing of investor participation in these markets. Unexpected volatility or illiquidity in the markets in which we hold positions could adversely affect us. Declining financial markets could also cause the value of the investments in our defined benefit pension plan to decrease, resulting in additional pension expense and an increase in required contributions to the defined benefit pension plan. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by declining financial market conditions. Conditions in the U.S. and international financial markets affect the sale and profitability of our annuity products. In general, sales of variable annuities decrease when financial markets are declining over an extended period of time. Therefore, weak financial market performance may adversely affect sales of our variable annuity products to potential customers, may cause current customers to withdraw or reduce the amounts invested in our variable annuity products and may reduce the market value of existing customers’ investments in our variable annuity products, in turn reducing the amount of variable annuity fee revenues generated. In addition, some of our variable annuity contracts offer guaranteed minimum death benefits features, which provide for a benefit if the annuitant dies and the contract value is less than a specified amount. A decline in the financial markets could cause the contract value to fall below this specified amount, increasing our exposure to losses from variable annuity products featuring guaranteed minimum death benefits. Declining financial markets may also impact the valuations of deferred policy acquisition costs and value of acquired insurance in force. Interest rate fluctuations could negatively affect the income we derive from the difference between the interest rates we earn on our investments and the interest we pay under our annuity contracts. Significant changes in interest rates expose us to the risk of not earning income or experiencing losses based on the differences between the interest rates earned on our investments and the credited interest rates paid on our outstanding annuity contracts. Significant changes in interest rates may affect: • the unrealized gains and losses in our investment portfolio and the related after-tax effect on our shareholders’ equity and total capital; • the book yield of our investment portfolio; and • the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to maintain appropriate interest rate spreads over the fixed rates guaranteed in their life and annuity products. 33 Table of Contents Both rising and declining interest rates can negatively affect the income we derive from these interest rate spreads. During periods of falling interest rates, our investment earnings will be lower because new investments in fixed maturity securities will likely bear lower interest rates. We may not be able to fully offset the decline in investment earnings with lower crediting rates on our annuity contracts. During periods of rising interest rates, there may be competitive pressure to increase the crediting rates on our annuity contracts. We may not, however, have the ability immediately to acquire investments with interest rates sufficient to offset an increase in crediting rates under our annuity contracts. Although we develop and maintain asset/liability management programs and procedures designed to reduce the volatility of our income when interest rates are rising or falling, changes in interest rates can affect our interest rate spreads. Changes in interest rates may also affect our business in other ways. For example, a rapidly changing interest rate environment may result in less competitive crediting rates on certain of our fixed-rate products which could make those products less attractive, leading to lower sales and/or increases in the level of life insurance and annuity product surrenders and withdrawals. Interest rate fluctuations may also impact the valuations of deferred policy acquisition costs and value of acquired insurance in force. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 