ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could affect the Company’s business, financial results and results of operations. In addition, refer to the risk factors disclosed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Forward-looking Information”, listed on page F-1 of this report for certain important factors that may cause our financial condition and results of operations to differ materially from current expectations. The risks that the Company has highlighted in these two sections of this report are not the only ones that the Company faces. In this discussion, the Company is also referred to as “our”, “we” and “us”. The Company’s business involves various risks and uncertainties which are based on the lines of business the Company writes as well as more global risks associated with the general business and insurance industry environments. Volatile financial markets and adverse economic environments can impact financial market risk as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Financial markets in the U.S. and elsewhere can experience extreme volatility and disruption for uncertain periods of time. In 2008 and 2009 volatility occurred largely due to the stresses affecting the global banking system, which accelerated significantly in the second half of 2008. In those years, these circumstances exerted significant downward pressure on prices of equity securities and many other investment asset classes and resulted in substantially increased market volatility, severely constrained credit and capital markets, particularly for financial institutions, and an overall loss of investor confidence. The slow recovery from the resulting severe economic downturn has resulted in many states and local governments operating under deficits or projected deficits which could have an impact on both the Company’s niche market and its investment portfolio. Like other financial institutions which face significant financial market risk in their operations, the Company was adversely affected by these conditions and could be adversely impacted by similar circumstances in the future. The Company’s ability to access the capital markets to refinance outstanding indebtedness or raise capital could be impaired during significant financial market disruptions. In addition to the effects of financial markets volatility, a prolonged economic recession may have other adverse impacts on our financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents If our investment strategy is not successful, we could suffer unexpected losses. The success of our investment strategy is crucial to the success of our business. Specifically, our fixed income portfolio is subject to a number of risks including: — interest rate risk, which is the risk that interest rates will decline and funds reinvested will earn less than expected; — market value risk, which is the risk that our invested assets will decrease in value due to a change in the yields realized on our assets and prevailing market yields for similar assets, an unfavorable change in the liquidity of the investment or an unfavorable change in the financial prospects or a downgrade in the credit rating of the issuer of the investment; — credit risk, which is the risk that the value of certain investments becomes impaired due to deterioration in financial condition of one or more issuers of those instruments or the deterioration in performance or credit quality of the underlying collateral of certain structured securities and, ultimately, the risk of permanent loss in the event of default by an issuer or underlying credit; — market fundamentals risk, which is the risk that there are changes in the market that can have an unfavorable impact on securities valuation such as availability of credit in the capital markets, re-pricing of credit risk, reduced market liquidity due to broker-dealers’ unwillingness to hold inventory, and increased market volatility; — concentration risk, which is the risk that the portfolio may be too heavily concentrated in the securities of one or more issuers, sectors or industries, which could result in a significant decrease in the value of the portfolio in the event of deterioration in the financial condition of those issuers or the market value of their securities; — liquidity risk, which is the risk that liabilities are surrendered or mature sooner than anticipated requiring us to sell assets at an undesirable time to provide for policyholder surrenders, withdrawals or claims; and — regulatory risk, which is the risk that regulatory bodies or governments, in the U.S. or in other countries, may make substantial investments or take significant ownership positions in, or ultimately nationalize, financial institutions or other issuers of securities held in the Company’s investment portfolio, which could adversely impact the seniority or contractual terms of the securities. Regulatory risk could also come from changes in tax laws or bankruptcy laws that would adversely impact the valuation of certain invested assets. In addition to significant steps taken to attempt to mitigate these risks through our investment guidelines, policies and procedures, we also attempt to mitigate these risks through product pricing, product features and the establishment of policy reserves, but we cannot provide assurance that assets will be properly matched to meet anticipated liabilities or that our investments will provide sufficient returns to enable us to satisfy our guaranteed fixed benefit obligations. Although historically the Company has not been a party to these transactions, from time to time we could also enter into foreign currency, interest rate, credit derivative and other hedging transactions in an effort to manage risks. We cannot provide assurance that we will successfully structure those derivatives and hedges so as to effectively manage these risks. If our calculations are incorrect, or if we do not properly structure our derivatives or hedges, we may have unexpected losses and our assets may not be adequate to meet our needed reserves, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Although the Company’s defined benefit pension plan was frozen in 2002, declining financial markets could also cause, and in the past have caused, the value of the investments in this pension plan to decrease, resulting in additional pension expense, a reduction in other comprehensive income and an increase in required contributions to the defined benefit pension plan. The determination of the fair value of our fixed income and equity securities could include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. The determination of fair values is made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. The use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. During periods of market disruption, including periods of rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the financial environment. In such cases, fair value determination may require more subjectivity and management judgment and those fair values may differ materially from the value at which the investments ultimately could be sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. The difference between amortized cost or cost and fair value, net of applicable deferred income tax asset or liability and the related impact on deferred policy acquisition costs associated with investment (annuity) and interest-sensitive life contracts, is reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income within shareholders’ equity. Decreases in the fair value of our investments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A sustained period of low interest rates or interest rate fluctuations could negatively affect the income we derive from the difference between the interest rates we earn on our investments and the interest we pay under our fixed annuity and interest-sensitive life contracts. Significant changes in interest rates expose us to the risk of not earning income or experiencing losses based on the differences between the interest rates earned on our investments and the credited interest rates paid on our outstanding fixed annuity and interest-sensitive life contracts. Significant changes in interest rates may affect: — the ability to maintain appropriate interest rate spreads over the fixed rates guaranteed in our annuity and life products; — the book yield of our investment portfolio; and — the unrealized gains and losses in our investment portfolio and the related after-tax effect on our shareholders’ equity and total capital. 27 Table of Contents Both rising and declining interest rates can negatively affect the income we derive from our annuity and life products’ interest rate spreads. During periods of falling interest rates or a sustained period of low interest rates, our investment earnings will be lower because new investments in fixed maturity securities likely will bear lower interest rates. We may not be able to fully offset the decline in investment earnings with lower crediting rates on our annuity contracts, particularly in a multi-year period of low interest rates. As of the time of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, new money rates continue to be at historically low levels. If interest rates were to remain low over a sustained period of time, and based on a recent pronouncement by the Federal Reserve Board that rates are likely to remain low as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6.5%, this would put additional pressure on our interest spreads, potentially resulting in an adverse impact on the evaluation of our deferred policy acquisition costs, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. During periods of rising interest rates, there may be competitive pressure to increase the crediting rates on our annuity contracts. We may not, however, immediately have the ability to acquire investments with interest rates sufficient to offset an increase in crediting rates under our annuity contracts. Although we develop and maintain asset/liability management programs and procedures designed to reduce the volatility of our income when interest rates are rising or falling, changes in interest rates can affect our interest rate spreads. Changes in interest rates may also affect our business in other ways. For example, a rapidly changing interest rate environment may result in less competitive crediting rates on certain of our fixed-rate products which could make those products less attractive, leading to lower sales and/or increases in the level of life insurance and annuity product surrenders and withdrawals. Interest rate fluctuations may also impact the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. As another example of potential interest rate impacts, our annuity and life operations participate in the cash flow testing procedures imposed by statutory insurance regulations, the purpose of which is to insure that such liabilities are adequate to meet the Company’s obligations under a variety of interest rate scenarios. A continuation of the current low interest rate environment over a prolonged period of time could cause the Company to increase statutory reserves as a result of cash flow testing, which would reduce statutory surplus of the life insurance subsidiaries and potentially limit the subsidiaries’ ability to distribute cash to the holding company or write insurance business (as further described in a subsequent risk factor). Regulatory initiatives, including the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), could adversely impact liquidity and volatility of financial markets in which we participate. In response to the credit and financial crisis, U.S. and overseas governmental and regulatory authorities are considering enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future crises or stabilize the institutions under their supervision. Such measures are likely to lead to stricter regulation of financial institutions. Potential changes from the Dodd-Frank Act and other U.S. and overseas governmental initiatives could adversely impact liquidity and increase volatility of the financial markets in which we participate and, in turn, negatively affect our financial condition or results of operations. 28 Table of Contents Our annuity business may be, and in the past has been, adversely affected by volatile or declining financial market conditions. Conditions in the U.S. and international financial markets affect the sale and profitability of our annuity products. In general, sales of variable annuities decrease when financial markets are declining or experiencing a higher than normal level of volatility over an extended period of time. Therefore, weak and/or volatile financial market performance may adversely affect sales of our variable annuity products to potential customers, may cause current customers to withdraw or reduce the amounts invested in our variable annuity products and may reduce the market value of existing customers’ investments in our variable annuity products, in turn reducing the amount of variable annuity fee revenues generated. In addition, some of our variable annuity contracts offer guaranteed minimum death benefit features, which provide for a benefit if the contractholder dies and the contract value is less than a specified amount. A decline in the financial markets could cause the contract value to fall below this specified amount, increasing our exposure to losses from variable annuity products featuring guaranteed minimum death benefits. Declining or volatile financial markets may also impact the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. Losses due to defaults by others could reduce our profitability or negatively affect the value of our investments. Third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets may not pay or perform their obligations. These parties may include the issuers whose securities we hold, customers, reinsurers, borrowers under mortgage loans, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivative contracts, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, downturns in the economy or real estate values, operational failure or other reasons. During or following an economic downturn, our municipal bond portfolio could be subject to a higher risk of default or impairment due to declining municipal tax bases and revenue. States are currently barred from seeking protection in federal bankruptcy court. However, federal legislation could possibly be enacted to allow states to declare bankruptcy in connection with deficit reductions or mounting unfunded pension liabilities, which could adversely impact the value of our investment portfolio. The default of a major market participant could disrupt the securities markets or clearance and settlement systems in the U.S. or abroad. A failure of a major market participant could cause some clearance and settlement systems to assess members of that system, including our broker-dealer subsidiary, or could lead to a chain of defaults that could adversely affect us. A default of a major market participant could disrupt various markets, which could in turn cause market declines or volatility and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Catastrophic events can have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Underwriting results of property and casualty insurers are subject to weather and other conditions prevailing in an accident year. While one year may be relatively free of major weather or other disasters -- not all of which are designated by the insurance industry as a catastrophe, another year may have numerous such events causing results for such a year to be materially worse than for other years. Our property and casualty insurance subsidiaries have experienced, and we anticipate that in the future they will continue to experience, catastrophe losses. A catastrophic event or a series of multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of our insurance subsidiaries. Various events can cause catastrophes, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, terrorism, explosions, severe winter weather and wildfires. The frequency and severity of these catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposures in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Although catastrophes can cause losses in a variety of property and casualty lines, most of the catastrophe-related claims of our insurance subsidiaries are related to homeowners’ coverages. Our ability to provide accurate estimates of ultimate catastrophe costs is based on several factors, including: • the proximity of the catastrophe occurrence date to the date of our estimate; • potential inflation of property repair costs in the affected area; • the occurrence of multiple catastrophes in a geographic area over a relatively short period of time; and • the outcome of litigation which may be filed against the Company by policyholders, state attorneys general and other parties relative to loss coverage disputes and loss settlement payments. Based on 2012 direct premiums earned, 57% of the total annual premiums for our property and casualty business were for policies issued in the ten largest states in which our insurance subsidiaries write property and casualty coverage. Included in this top ten group are certain states which are considered to be more prone to catastrophe occurrences: California, North Carolina, Texas, Florida, Louisiana, South Carolina and Georgia. As an ongoing practice, we manage our exposure to catastrophes, as well as our exposure to non-catastrophe weather and other property loss risks. Reductions in property and casualty business written in catastrophe-prone areas may have a negative impact on near-term business growth and results of operations. In addition to the potential impact on our property and casualty subsidiaries, our life subsidiary could experience claims of a catastrophic magnitude from events such as pandemics; terrorism; nuclear, biological or chemical explosions; or other acts of war. Our insurance subsidiaries seek to reduce their exposure to catastrophe losses through their underwriting strategies and the purchase of catastrophe reinsurance. Nevertheless, reinsurance may prove inadequate under certain circumstances. 30 Table of Contents Uncollectible reinsurance, as well as reinsurance availability and pricing, can have a material adverse effect upon our business volume and profitability. Reinsurance is a contract by which one insurer, called a reinsurer, agrees to cover a portion of the losses incurred by a second insurer in the event a claim is made under a policy issued by the second insurer. Our insurance subsidiaries obtain reinsurance to help manage their exposure to property, casualty and life insurance risks. Although a reinsurer is liable to our insurance subsidiaries according to the terms of its reinsurance policy, the insurance subsidiaries remain primarily liable as the direct insurers on all risks reinsured. As a result, reinsurance does not eliminate the obligation of our insurance subsidiaries to pay all claims, and each insurance subsidiary is subject to the risk that one or more of its reinsurers will be unable or unwilling to honor its obligations. Although we limit participation in our reinsurance programs to reinsurers with high financial strength ratings and also limit the amount of coverage from each reinsurer, our insurance subsidiaries cannot guarantee that their reinsurers will pay in a timely fashion, if at all. Reinsurers may become financially unsound by the time that they are called upon to pay amounts due, which may not occur for many years. In the case of the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund (“FHCF”), financial deficits and difficulties in accessing the capital markets may require the FHCF to make additional assessments against participating insurers. Additional coverage made available by the FHCF to the insurance industry in future contract periods could increase the likelihood of assessments in periods following significant hurricane losses. Additionally, the availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions beyond our control. For example, significant losses from hurricanes or terrorist attacks or an increase in capital requirements could have a significant adverse impact on the reinsurance market. If one of our insurance subsidiaries is unable to obtain adequate reinsurance at reasonable rates, that insurance subsidiary would have to increase its risk exposure and/or reduce the level of its underwriting commitments, which could have a material adverse effect upon the business volume and profitability of the subsidiary. Alternately, the insurance subsidiary could elect to pay the higher than reasonable rates for reinsurance coverage, which could have a material adverse effect upon its profitability until policy premium rates could be raised, in some cases subject to approval by state regulators, to incorporate this additional cost. Our property and casualty loss reserves may not be adequate. Our property and casualty insurance subsidiaries maintain loss reserves to provide for their estimated ultimate liability for losses and loss adjustment expenses with respect to reported and unreported claims incurred as of the end of each accounting period. If these loss reserves prove inadequate, we will record a loss measured by the amount of the shortfall and, as a result, the financial condition and results of operations of our insurance subsidiaries will be adversely affected, potentially affecting their ability to distribute cash to the holding company. 31 Table of Contents Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Reserves represent estimates, generally involving actuarial projections at a given time, of what our insurance subsidiaries expect the ultimate settlement and adjustment of claims will cost, net of salvage and subrogation. Estimates are based on assessments of known facts and circumstances, assumptions related to the ultimate cost to settle such claims, estimates of future trends in claims severity and frequency, changing judicial theories of liability and other factors. These variables are affected by both internal and external events, including changes in claims handling procedures, economic inflation, unpredictability of court decisions, plaintiffs’ expanded theories of liability, risks inherent in major litigation and legislative changes. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. Significant reporting lags may exist between the occurrence of an insured event and the time it is actually reported. Our insurance subsidiaries adjust their reserve estimates regularly as experience develops and further claims are reported and settled. Due to the inherent uncertainty in estimating reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses, we cannot be certain that the ultimate liability will not exceed amounts reserved, with a resulting adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changing climate conditions may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Many scientists indicate that the world’s overall climate is getting warmer. Climate change, to the extent it produces rising temperatures and changes in weather patterns, could impact the frequency and/or severity of weather events and wildfires, the affordability and availability of our catastrophe reinsurance coverage, and our results of operations. If an increase in weather events and/or wildfires were to occur, in addition to the attendant increase in claim costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition, concentrations of insurance risk could impact our ability to make homeowners insurance available to our customers. This could adversely impact our volume of business and our results of operations or cash flows. Deviations from assumptions regarding future market appreciation, interest spreads, business persistency, mortality and morbidity used in calculating life and annuity reserves and deferred policy acquisition expense amounts could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The processes of calculating reserve and deferred policy acquisition expense amounts for our life and annuity businesses involve the use of a number of assumptions, including those related to market appreciation (the rate of growth in market value of the underlying variable annuity subaccounts due to price appreciation), interest spreads (the interest rates expected to be received on investments less the rate of interest credited to contractholders), business persistency (how long a contract stays with the company), mortality (the relative incidence of death over a given period of time) and morbidity (the relative incidence of disability resulting from disease or physical impairment). We periodically review the adequacy of these reserves and deferred policy acquisition expenses on an aggregate basis and, if future experience is estimated to differ significantly from previous assumptions, adjustments to reserves and deferred policy acquisition expenses may be required which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents An impairment of all or part of our goodwill could adversely affect our results of operations. At December 31, 2012, we had $47.4 million of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. Goodwill was recorded when the Company was acquired in 1989 and when Horace Mann Property & Casualty Insurance Company was acquired in 1994, in both instances reflecting the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired. The December 31, 2012 balance was evaluated for impairment, as described in “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements -- Note 1 -- Summary of Significant Accounting Policies”, with no impairment charge resulting from such assessment. The evaluation of goodwill considers a number of factors including the impacts of a volatile financial market on earnings, discount rate assumptions, liquidity and the Company’s market capitalization. If an evaluation of the Company’s fair value or of the Company’s segments’ fair value indicated that all or a portion of the goodwill balance was impaired, the Company would be required to write off the impaired portion. Such a write-off could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period of the write-off; however, management does not anticipate a material effect on the Company’s financial condition. Any downgrade in or adverse change in outlook for our claims-paying ratings, financial strength ratings or credit ratings could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Claims-paying ratings and financial strength ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. In the evolving 403(b) annuity market, school districts and benefit consultants have been placing increased emphasis on the relative financial strength ratings of competing companies. Each rating agency reviews its ratings periodically and from time to time may modify its rating criteria including, among other factors, its expectations regarding capital adequacy, profitability and revenue growth. A downgrade in the ratings or adverse change in the ratings outlook of any of our insurance subsidiaries by a major rating agency could result in a substantial loss of business for that subsidiary if school districts, policyholders or independent agents move their business to other companies having higher claims-paying ratings and financial strength ratings than we do. This loss of business could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of that subsidiary. A downgrade in our holding company debt rating also could adversely impact our cost and flexibility of borrowing which could have an adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Reduction of the statutory surplus of our insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect their ability to write insurance business. Insurance companies write business based, in part, upon guidelines including capital ratios considered by the NAIC and various rating agencies. Some of these ratios include risk-based capital ratios for both property and casualty insurance companies and life insurance companies, as well as a ratio of premiums to surplus for property and casualty insurance companies. Risk-based capital ratios measure an insurer’s capital adequacy and consider various risks such as underwriting, investment, credit, asset concentration and interest rate. If our insurance subsidiaries cannot maintain profitability in the future or if significant investment valuation losses are incurred, they may be required to draw on their surplus, thereby reducing capital adequacy, in order to pay dividends to us to enable us to meet our financial obligations. 33 Table of Contents As their surplus is reduced by the payment of dividends, continuing losses or both, our insurance subsidiaries’ ability to write business and maintain acceptable financial strength ratings could also be reduced. This could have a material adverse effect upon the business volume and profitability of our insurance subsidiaries. If we are not able to effectively develop and expand our marketing operations, including agents and other points of distribution, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Since 2006, the Company has been transitioning from a single-person agent operation to its Agency Business Model, with agents in outside offices with licensed producers, designed to remove capacity constraints and increase productivity. Building on this foundation, in 2009 the Company began offering the opportunity for agents to be appointed by the Company as non-employee, independent contractor, Exclusive Agents. At December 31, 2012, approximately 90% of the Company’s agents and agencies were operating under the Agency Business Model. Our success in marketing and selling our products is largely dependent upon the efforts of our agent sales force and the success of their agency operations. As we expand our business, we may need to expand the number of agencies marketing our products. If we are unable to appoint additional agents, fail to retain current agents, are unable to maintain the productivity of those agency operations or are unable to maintain market penetration in existing territories, sales of our products likely would decline and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are not able to maintain and secure (1) access to educators and (2) endorsements and other relationships with the educational community, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to successfully increase new business in the educator market is largely dependent on our ability to effectively access educators either in their school buildings or through other approaches. While this is especially true for the sale of 403(b) tax-qualified annuity products via payroll reduction, any significant decrease in access, either through fewer payroll slots, increased security measures or for other reasons could potentially adversely affect the sale of all lines of our business and require us to change our traditional approach to worksite marketing and promotion. With the changes in the IRS regulations regarding Section 403(b) arrangements, including annuities, our ability to maintain and increase our share of the 403(b) market, and the access it gives us for other product lines, will depend on our ability to successfully compete in this market. Some school districts and benefit consultants have been placing additional emphasis on the relative financial strength ratings of competing companies, as well as low cost product and distribution approaches, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other more highly-rated insurance companies. Our ability to maintain and obtain product and corporate endorsements from, and/or marketing agreements with, local, state and national education-related associations is important to our marketing strategy. In addition to teacher organizations, we have established relationships with various other educator, principal, school administrator and school business official groups. These contacts and endorsements help to establish our brand name and presence in the educational community and to enhance our access to educators. 34 Table of Contents Economic and other factors affecting our niche market could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Horace Mann’s strategic objective is to become the company of choice in meeting the insurance and financial services needs of the educational community. With K-12 teachers, administrators, and support personnel representing a significant percentage of our business, the financial condition and results of operations of our subsidiaries could be more prone than many of our competitors to the effects of economic forces and other issues affecting the educator market including, but not limited to, federal, state and local budget deficits and cut-backs and adverse changes in state and local tax revenues. While the U.S. financial market and certain sectors of the economy have shown improvement over recent quarters, federal and state revenue shortages continue to pressure the budgets of many school districts. Teacher layoffs and early retirements have taken place in recent years and it is possible that additional reductions will occur in the near-term future. Similar to others in the insurance industry, the Company has experienced pressure on new business sales levels. However, despite the economic headwinds, as of the time of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company’s retention of annuity accumulated values remains strong; the level of annuity scheduled deposit suspension has improved significantly compared to the 2008-2009 period; and total annuity net fund flows continued to be positive in 2012, as they were throughout each year in the 2008 through 2011 period. However, there can be no assurance that these business factors will remain favorable. The personal lines insurance and annuity markets are highly competitive and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by competitive forces. We operate in a highly competitive environment and compete with numerous insurance companies, as well as mutual fund families, independent agent companies and financial planners. In some instances and geographic locations, competitors have specifically targeted the educator marketplace with specialized products and programs. We compete in our target market with a number of national providers of personal automobile and homeowners insurance and life insurance and annuities. The insurance industry consists of a large number of insurance companies, some of which have substantially greater financial resources, more diversified product lines, greater economies of scale and/or lower-cost marketing approaches compared to us. In our target market, we believe that the principal competitive factors in the sale of property and casualty insurance products are price, overall service, name recognition and worksite sales and service. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the sale of annuity products and life insurance are worksite sales and service, product features, perceived stability of the insurer, price, overall service and name recognition. 35 Table of Contents Particularly in the property and casualty business, our insurance subsidiaries from time to time, generally on a cyclical basis, experience periods of intense competition during which they may be unable to increase policyholders and revenues without adversely impacting profit margins. During the current cycle, which has existed for the previous 24-36 months and is expected to persist through 2013 and potentially beyond, competition from direct writers and large, mass market carriers has been particularly aggressive, evidenced in part by their significant national advertising expenditures. The inability of our insurance subsidiaries to compete successfully in the property and casualty business could adversely affect the subsidiaries’ financial condition and results of operations and the resulting ability to distribute cash to the holding company. In our annuity business, the revised IRS Section 403(b) regulations, which generally took effect January 1, 2009, have made the 403(b) market more similar to the 401(k) market than it was in the past. While this change has and may continue to reduce the number of competitors in this market, it has made the 403(b) market more attractive to some of the larger companies experienced in 401(k) plans, including both insurance and mutual fund companies, that had not previously been active competitors in this business. While not yet widespread, there has been continued pressure in some states to adopt state-sponsored or mandated 403(b) plans with single- or limited-provider options; this pressure has come from competitor lobbying efforts and state legislature-initiated pension reform initiatives. The inability of our insurance subsidiaries to compete successfully in these markets could adversely affect the subsidiaries’ financial condition and results of operations and the resulting ability to distribute cash to the holding company. A reduction or elimination of the tax advantages of annuity and life products and/or a change in the tax benefits of various government-authorized retirement programs, such as 403(b) annuities and individual retirement accounts (“IRAs”), could make our products less attractive to clients and adversely affect our operating results. A significant part of our annuity business involves fixed and variable 403(b) tax-qualified annuities, which are annuities purchased voluntarily by individuals employed by public school systems or other tax-exempt organizations. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations that affect the relative tax and other advantages of our life and annuity products to clients or the tax benefits of programs utilized by our customers. As a result of economic conditions from 2008 through 2012 and as of the time of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, revenue challenges exist at federal, state and local government levels. These challenges could increase the risk of future adverse impacts on current tax advantaged products. See also “Business — Regulation — Regulation at Federal Level”. Current federal income tax laws generally permit the tax-deferred accumulation of earnings on the premiums paid by the holders of annuities and life insurance products. Taxes, if any, are payable on income attributable to a distribution under the contract for the year in which the distribution is made. From time to time, Congress has considered legislation that would reduce or eliminate the benefit of such deferral of taxation on the accretion of value with life insurance and non-qualified annuity contracts. Enactment of this legislation, including a simplified “flat tax” income structure with an exemption from taxation for investment income, could result in fewer sales of our life insurance and annuity products. 36 Table of Contents The insurance industry is highly regulated. We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which we do business. Each jurisdiction has a unique and complex set of laws and regulations. Furthermore, certain federal laws impose additional requirements on businesses, including insurers. Regulation generally is designed to protect the interests of policyholders, as opposed to stockholders and non-policyholder creditors. Such regulations, among other things, impose restrictions on the amount and type of investments our subsidiaries may hold. Certain states also regulate the rates insurers may charge for certain property and casualty products. Legislation and voter initiatives have expanded, in some instances, the states’ regulation of rates and have increased data reporting requirements. Consumer-related pressures to roll back rates, even if not enacted by legislation or upheld upon judicial appeal, may affect our ability to obtain timely rate increases or operate at desired levels of profitability. Changes in insurance regulations, including those affecting the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to distribute cash to us and those affecting the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to write profitable property and casualty insurance policies in one or more states, may adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of our insurance subsidiaries. In addition, consumer privacy requirements may increase our cost of processing business. Our ability to comply with laws and regulations, at a reasonable cost, and to obtain necessary regulatory action in a timely manner, is and will continue to be critical to our success. Regulation that could adversely affect our insurance subsidiaries also includes statutory surplus and risk-based capital requirements. Maintaining appropriate levels of surplus, as measured by statutory accounting principles, is considered important by state insurance regulatory authorities and the private agencies that rate insurers’ claims-paying abilities and financial strength. The failure of an insurance subsidiary to maintain levels of statutory surplus that are sufficient for the amount of its insurance written could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, action by state regulatory authorities or a downgrade by rating agencies. Similarly, the NAIC has adopted a system of assessing minimum capital adequacy that is applicable to our insurance subsidiaries. This system, known as risk-based capital, is used to identify companies that may merit further regulatory action by analyzing the adequacy of the insurer’s surplus in relation to statutory requirements. Because state legislatures remain concerned about the availability and affordability of property and casualty insurance and the protection of policyholders, our insurance subsidiaries expect that they will continue to face efforts by those legislatures to expand regulations to address these concerns. Resulting new legislation could adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of our insurance subsidiaries. In the event of the insolvency, liquidation or other reorganization of any of our insurance subsidiaries, our creditors and stockholders would have no right to proceed against any such insurance subsidiary or to cause the liquidation or bankruptcy of any such insurance subsidiary under federal or state bankruptcy laws. The insurance laws of the domiciliary state would govern such proceedings and the relevant insurance commissioner would act as liquidator or rehabilitator for the insurance subsidiary. Creditors and policyholders of any such insurance subsidiary would be entitled to payment in full from the assets of the insurance subsidiary before we, as a stockholder, would be entitled to receive any distribution. 37 Table of Contents The financial position of our insurance subsidiaries also may be affected by court decisions that expand insurance coverage beyond the intention of the insurer at the time it originally issued an insurance policy. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was signed into law by President Obama. The law created a new Federal Insurance Office (“FIO”) within the U.S. Department of the Treasury. The FIO is charged with monitoring and providing specific reports on various aspects of the insurance industry, but it does not have general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance. While the law creates new opportunities for federal monitoring and limited intervention in the regulation of the insurance industry, and the FIO’s reports and recommendations may create new pressures for broader federal regulatory authority over the insurance industry longer term, management does not expect the current provisions of the law to have a significant effect on the Company. Management will continue to monitor developments under this law. Additional regulations could adversely affect the efficiency and effectiveness of business processes, financial condition and results of operations of the Company, insurers of similar size and/or the insurance industry as a whole. The insurance industry is highly cyclical. The results of companies in the insurance industry historically have been subject to significant fluctuations due to competition, economic conditions, interest rates and other factors. In particular, companies in the property and casualty insurance segment of the industry historically have experienced pricing and profitability cycles. With respect to these cycles, the factors having the greatest impact include significant and/or rapid changes in loss costs, including changes in loss frequency and/or severity; prior approval and restrictions in certain states for price increases; intense price competition; less restrictive underwriting standards; aggressive marketing; and increased advertising, which have resulted in higher industry-wide combined loss and expense ratios. Litigation may harm our financial strength or reduce our profitability. Companies in the insurance industry have been subject to substantial litigation resulting from claims, disputes and other matters. Most recently, they have faced expensive claims, including class action lawsuits, alleging, among other things, improper sales practices and improper claims settlement procedures. Negotiated settlements of certain such actions have had a material adverse effect on many insurance companies. The resolution of such claims against any of our insurance subsidiaries, including the potential adverse effect on our reputation and charges against the earnings of our insurance subsidiaries as a result of legal defense costs, a settlement agreement or an adverse finding or findings against our insurance subsidiaries in such a claim, could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of our insurance subsidiaries. 38 Table of Contents Data security breaches or denial of service on our websites could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business and reputation. Unauthorized access to and unintentional dissemination of our confidential customer, employee or Company data or other breaches of data security in our facilities, networks or databases, or those of our agents or third-party vendors, could result in loss or theft of assets or sensitive information, data corruption or operational disruption that may expose the Company to liability and/or regulatory action and may have an adverse impact on the Company’s customers, employees, reputation and business. In addition, any compromise of the security of our data or prolonged denial of service on our websites could harm the Company’s business and reputation. We have designed, implemented and routinely test industry-compliant procedures for protection of confidential information and sensitive corporate data, including rapid response procedures to help contain or prevent data loss if a breach were to occur. We have also implemented multiple technical security protections and contractual obligations regarding security breaches for our agents and third-party vendors. Even with these efforts, there can be no assurance that security breaches or service disruptions will be prevented. Successful execution of our business growth strategy is dependent on effective implementation of new or enhanced technology systems and applications. Our ability to effectively execute our business growth strategy and leverage potential economies of scale is dependent on our ability to provide the requisite technology components for that strategy. While we have effectively upgraded our infrastructure technologies with improvements in our data center, a new communications platform and enhancements to our disaster recovery capabilities, our ability to replace or supplement dated, monolithic legacy business systems with more flexible, maintainable, and customer accessible solutions will be necessary to achieve our plans. The inherent difficulty in replacing and/or modernizing these older technologies, coupled with the Company’s lack of experience in these endeavors, presents an increased risk to delivering these technology solutions in a cost effective and timely manner. Our scale will require us to develop innovative solutions to address these challenges. More modern approaches to software development and utilization of third-party vendors can augment the Company’s internal capacity for these implementations, but may not adequately reduce the risks of timely and cost effective delivery. Loss of key vendor relationships could affect our operations. We rely on services and products provided by a number of vendors in the United States and abroad. These include, for example, vendors of computer hardware and software and vendors of services such as investment management advisement, information technology services and delivery services for customer policy-level communications. In the event that one or more of our vendors suffers a bankruptcy or otherwise becomes unable to continue to provide products or services, we may suffer operational difficulties and financial losses. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 39 Table of Contents 