Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our Common Stock involves investment risks and the possibility of the loss of an investor’s entire investment. A prospective investor should evaluate all information about us and the risk factors discussed below in relation to his financial circumstances before investing in us. The current recessionary economic environment and concurrent market instability may materially and adversely affect our ability to fund our operations or effectuate a merger or other business combination with a private operating company. We have funded our operations to date primarily through sales of our stock in private placements and in all likelihood we will need additional funds to continue our operations and take advantage of any available opportunity to acquire an operating company. Our ability to sell additional shares of our stock and/or borrow funds under new credit facilities could be materially adversely affected by the recent economic turmoil in the world equity and credit markets. The current worldwide financial crisis has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund or support the continuation and expansion of business operations worldwide. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Continued disruption of the credit markets has affected and could continue to adversely affect our ability to access credit from any proposed business combination. There can therefore be no assurance that we will be able to raise the funds on acceptable terms or at all, which may materially adversely affect our ability to continue our operations and take advantage of any available opportunity to acquire an operating company. Additionally, the current economic turmoil could reduce the perceived advantages of being a publicly held corporation and therefore reduce demand from private operating companies to effectuate a merger or other business combination with us, which may materially adversely affect our ability to acquire a suitable and favorable business opportunity. We have no current operating business. We currently have no relevant operating business, revenues from operations or assets. Our business plan is to seek a merger or other business combination with an operating business and we face all of the risks inherent in the investigation, acquisition, or involvement in a new business opportunity. An investor’s purchase of any of our securities must be regarded as placing funds at a high risk in a new or “start-up” venture with all of the unforeseen costs, expenses, problems, and difficulties to which such ventures are subject. Since inception, the Company has generated no revenues and has incurred a cumulative operating loss of $1,940,443 and a cumulative net loss of $1,662,684. We currently have no source of operating revenue, and only limited working capital with which to pursue our business plan. The amount of capital required to sustain operations until the successful completion of a merger or other business combination is subject to future events and uncertainties. It may be necessary for the Company to secure additional working capital through loans or sales of common or preferred stock, and there can be no assurance that such funding will be available in the future. There is no assurance that we will successfully implement our business plan. Our business plan is to seek a merger or other business combination with an operating business. There can be no assurance that we will acquire a suitable and favorable business opportunity in a merger or other business combination. In addition, even if we become involved in a business opportunity, there is no assurance that the business we acquire will generate revenues or profits, or that the value of our Common Stock will increase as a result of the acquired business opportunity. 5 Table of Contents There is competition for those private companies suitable for a business combination of the type contemplated by our management. We are in a highly competitive market for a small number of business opportunities which could reduce the likelihood of consummating a successful business combination. We are and will continue to be an insignificant participant in the business of seeking business combinations with operating entities that desire to become public companies. A large number of established and well-financed entities, including small public companies and venture capital firms, are active in mergers and acquisitions of companies that may be desirable target candidates for us. Nearly all of these entities have significantly greater financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than we do; consequently, we will be at a competitive disadvantage in identifying possible business opportunities and successfully completing a business combination. These competitive factors may reduce the likelihood of our identifying and consummating a successful business combination. Since we have not yet identified a target business, we cannot currently ascertain the merits or risks of the business with which we may ultimately complete a transaction. We have not identified and have no commitments to enter into or acquire a specific business opportunity and the type of business that we may acquire is not yet identified. Therefore, we can disclose the risks and hazards of a business or opportunity that we might acquire only in a general manner, and cannot disclose the risks and hazards of any specific business or other opportunity that we may enter into. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable business or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the operations of that business. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in us will not ultimately prove to be less favorable than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. Our acquisition of or participation in a business opportunity could result in a total loss to our investors and shareholders if the target business is unsuccessful. Further, any investment in us may continue to be highly illiquid. It may be impracticable for us to complete an exhaustive investigation of a target business. We have limited funds and lack full-time management, which will likely make it impracticable to conduct a complete and exhaustive investigation and analysis of a business opportunity before we commit our limited capital and other resources to acquire a target business. Management decisions, therefore, likely will be made without detailed feasibility studies, independent analysis, market surveys, and the like, which, if we had more funds available to us, would be desirable. We will be particularly dependent in making decisions upon information provided by the promoter, owner, sponsor or others associated with the business opportunity seeking to be acquired by us. The time and cost of preparing a private company to become a public reporting company may preclude us from entering into a merger or other business combination with the most attractive private companies. Target companies that fail to comply with SEC reporting requirements may delay or preclude acquisition. Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act require reporting companies to provide certain information about significant acquisitions, including certified financial statements for the company acquired, covering one, two, or three years, depending on the relative size of the acquisition. The time and additional costs that may be incurred by some target entities to prepare these statements may significantly delay or essentially preclude consummation of a merger or other business combination with such entities. Otherwise suitable acquisition prospects that do not have or are unable to obtain the required audited statements may be inappropriate for a transaction so long as the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act are applicable. We will likely only be able to complete one business combination, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. Because of our limited financial resources, we will not likely be able to diversify our acquisitions or operations. The inability to diversify our activities into more than one area will subject our investors and shareholders to economic fluctuations within a particular business or industry and therefore increase the risks associated with the investment. We only intend to acquire a single business opportunity and thus an investment in us will lack diversification. 6 Table of Contents If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a merger or other business combination. If we are deemed to be an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Act”), we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination, including restrictions on the nature of our investments and restrictions on our issuance of securities. We believe that we will not become subject to regulation under the Investment Act because (i) we will not be engaged in the business of investing or trading in securities, and (ii) any acquisition undertaken will result in the target company obtaining a majority interest in us or the surviving entity. Should there be a requirement to register as an investment company, it would cause significant registration and compliance costs. Any violation of the Investment Act will subject us to materially adverse consequences. Should the SEC find that we are subject to the Investment Act, and order registration under the Investment Act, we would resist such finding and take steps to avoid such registration. Irrespective of whether the SEC or we were to prevail in such dispute about whether or not we are an investment company, the damages and delays would be costly. Any potential merger or business combination by the Company may subject us to additional risks. Any potential merger or business combination by us may be with a business that is subject to regulation or licensing by federal, state, or local authorities. Foreign companies may also be considered, and be subject to similar business regulations as are applicable in the United States and also may be subject to limitations on ownership by foreign persons and entities. Compliance with such regulations and licensing can be expected to be a time-consuming, expensive process and may limit our other investment opportunities. We may pursue potential business opportunities in foreign countries, and as such, such opportunities will be subject to foreign country laws and regulations affecting foreign investment, business operations, currency exchange, repatriation of profits, and taxation, which will increase the risk of an investment in the Company. We are heavily dependent upon our management and outside advisors. We are heavily dependent upon the skills, talents and abilities of our management to implement our business plan. Our management may devote limited time to our affairs, which may be inadequate for our business, and may delay the acquisition of any business opportunity considered. Because investors will not be able to evaluate the merits of possible business acquisitions by us, they should critically assess the information concerning our management. To supplement the business experience of management, we may be required to employ accountants, technical experts, appraisers, attorneys or other consultants or advisors. Some of these outside advisors may be our affiliates or their affiliated entities. The selection of any such advisors will be made by our management without any input from shareholders. Our officers and directors will also allocate their time to other businesses, and such other affairs could limit their ability to find and help us consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a merger or other business combination. All of our officers and directors are engaged in other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours to our affairs. If our officers’ and directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and hinder their ability to help us consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors will try to resolve conflicts to the best advantage of all concerned. 7 Table of Contents We will likely require additional financing in order to complete a merger or other business combination with an operating business and there can be no assurance that such financing will be available. In all likelihood we will need additional funds to take advantage of any opportunity to complete a merger or other business combination with an operating business. Even if we were to obtain sufficient funds to acquire an interest in a business opportunity, we may not have sufficient capital to fully exploit the opportunity. Our ultimate success will depend upon our ability to raise additional capital at the time of the transaction and thereafter. When additional capital may be needed, there can be no assurance that funds will be available from any source or, if available, that they can be obtained on acceptable terms. We have never paid dividends on our Common Stock. We have never paid dividends on our Common Stock and do not presently intend to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that any funds available for payment of dividends will be re-invested into the Company to further its business strategy. A business combination would likely cause a change in control of our ownership. It is likely that any merger or business combination with an operating company will result in a change in control of the then current directors, officers and shareholders. Therefore, our management prior to the transaction will be changed to those of the target company and its shareholders, who will then control the combined company. At that time, our shareholders will be at investment risk for the decisions about the business by persons that they may not know or have any ability to influence through a board seat or by the voting mechanism of shareholders. We may issue shares of our capital stock to complete a business combination, which would likely result in substantial dilution of our shareholders. A merger or other business combination effected by us may result in the issuance of additional securities without shareholder approval and may result in substantial dilution in the percentage of our Common Stock held by our then existing shareholders. Moreover, the Common Stock issued in any such merger or other business combination may be valued on an arbitrary or non-arm’s-length basis by our management, resulting in an additional reduction in the percentage of Common Stock held by our then existing shareholders. Our Board of Directors has the power to issue any or all of such authorized but unissued shares without shareholder approval. To the extent that additional shares of Common Stock or Preferred Stock are issued in connection with a business combination or otherwise, dilution to the interests of our shareholders will occur and the rights of the holders of Common Stock might be materially adversely affected. Trading of our Common Stock is limited, making it difficult for our shareholders to sell their shares. Our securities are very thinly traded, and the price, if traded, may not reflect the value of the Company. It is unlikely that there will be an active market for our shares either now or shortly after we complete a merger or other business combination. Consequently investors may not be able to liquidate their investment or liquidate it at a price that reflects the value of the business. If a more active market should develop, the price may be highly volatile. Because there may be a low price for our securities, many brokerage firms may not be willing to effect transactions in the securities. Even if an investor finds a broker willing to effect a transaction in the securities, the combination of brokerage commissions, transfer fees, taxes, if any, and any other selling costs may exceed the selling price. Further, many lending institutions will not permit the use of such securities as collateral for any loans. Our shares are currently quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”). Management intends to strongly consider undertaking a business transaction with a private operating company which will allow our shares to be quoted and traded on the NASDAQ Global Market, NASDAQ Capital Market or a national exchange. However, there can be no assurance that, upon a business combination, we will qualify our shares for quotation or listing on NASDAQ or a national exchange, or be able to maintain the criteria necessary to insure continued quotation or listing. 8 Table of Contents Because our Common Stock may be a “penny stock,” it may be more difficult for investors to sell shares of our Common Stock, and the market price of our Common Stock may be adversely affected. Our Common Stock may be a “penny stock” if, among other things, the stock price is below $5.00 per share, it is not listed on a national securities exchange or approved for quotation on NASDAQ or a national exchange or it has not met certain net tangible asset or average revenue requirements. Broker-dealers who sell penny stocks must provide purchasers of these stocks with a standardized risk-disclosure document prepared by the SEC. This document provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks involved in investing in the penny-stock market. A broker must also give a purchaser, orally or in writing, bid and offer quotations and information regarding broker and salesperson compensation, make a written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and obtain the purchaser’s written agreement to the purchase. Broker-dealers must also provide customers that hold penny stock in their accounts with such broker-dealer a monthly statement containing price and market information relating to the penny stock. If a penny stock is sold to an investor in violation of the penny stock rules, the investor may be able to cancel its purchase and get its money back. If applicable, the penny stock rules may make it difficult for investors to sell their shares of our Common Stock. Because of the rules and restrictions applicable to a penny stock, there is less trading in penny stocks and the market price of our Common Stock may be adversely affected. Also, many brokers choose not to participate in penny stock transactions. Accordingly, investors may not always be able to resell their shares of our Common Stock publicly at times and prices that they feel are appropriate. Additionally, the majority of our shares currently outstanding are “restricted securities” within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. As restricted shares, these shares may be resold only pursuant to an effective registration statement or under the requirements of Rule 144 or other applicable exemption from registration under the Securities Act and as required under applicable state securities laws. Rule 144 provides in essence that a person must hold their restricted securities for certain periods of time before restrictions may be removed from their shares and/or their shares may be sold. A sale under Rule 144 or under any other exemption from the Act, if available, or pursuant to subsequent registrations of our shares, may have a depressive effect upon the price of our shares in any market that may develop. 