Risk factors The Group’s activities are subject to risk factors that could impact its future performance. Certain of these risks can be mitigated by the use of safeguards and appropriate systems and actions. Some risks, however, are outside the Group’s control and cannot be mitigated. In addition to the matters set out under “Forward-Looking Information”, on page 1 of this report, the principal factors that may effect the Group’s performance are set out below: Risk management Like other banks, the Group faces financial risk in the conduct of its business, such as credit risk, operational risk and market risk (including liquidity risk). Following the discovery of the Fraudulent Activities in 2002, the Group undertook a number of actions to strengthen the risk management and control processes within the Group. Nonetheless, it is not possible to eliminate financial risk entirely. Following the Financial Regulator reports on the pricing of foreign exchange products in 2004, a management action plan was put in place to, interalia, improve and simplify product delivery processes in the Republic of Ireland, and further strengthen enterprise-wide quality assurance, risk and compliance functions. The Group’s approach to financial risk management is discussed in Item 11,”Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Risk”. Competition The Group faces strong competition across all its markets from local and international financial institutions, including banks, building societies, life insurance companies and mutual insurance organizations. A more detailed discussion of these competitive factors, including the Group’s main competitors, is included in Item 4, “Information on the Company – Competition”. In 2005, the Irish Competition Authority published a report on competition in the non-investment banking sector in Ireland, which is currently being evaluated by the Government, the Financial Regulator and other stakeholders. There can be no assurance that any resulting regulatory changes or actions and increased competition will not adversely affect the Group in one or more of the markets in which it operates. Regulatory risk Failure to comply with regulation constitutes a risk in the financial services industry. The Group’s business activities are subject to substantial regulation and regulatory oversight in the geographies in which it operates. In recent years, there have been significant regulatory changes in Ireland, the United Kingdom, the United States and Poland that have resulted in significantly increased compliance responsibilities and associated costs. See Item 4 “Information on the company - Supervision and regulation” for further detail. These and future regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on how the Group conducts its business and on its results of operations. Instances of non-compliance with Irish regulatory obligations have been identified in recent years and management is committed to further embedding a compliance culture throughout the Group. The Group’s business and earnings are also affected by fiscal and other policies that are adopted by the various regulatory authorities of the Irish Government, the European Union, foreign governments and international agencies. The nature and impact of future changes in such policies are not predictable and are beyond the Group’s control. Uncertain economic conditions The Group’s business activities are dependant on the level of banking, finance and financial services required by its customers. In particular, levels of borrowing are heavily dependent on customer confidence, market interest rates and other factors that affect the economy. The Group conducts extensive activities in Ireland and elsewhere, most notably in the UK, the US and Poland. The profitability of the Group’s businesses could, therefore, be adversely affected by a worsening of general economic conditions in its markets, as well as by foreign and domestic trading market conditions and/or related factors, including governmental policies and initiatives. An economic downturn or significantly higher interest rates could increase the risk that a greater number of the Group’s customers would default on their loans or other obligations to the Group, or would refrain from seeking additional borrowing. The Irish and UK economies in particular have seen significant growth in property prices and property-related lending in recent years and, while management believes it has a sensible approach to property lending and the management of related risks, any significant deterioration in Irish and/or UK property prices, could adversely affect the Group’s financial condition and results of operations. For a discussion on the Irish economy see Item 4 “Information on the company - The Irish economy”. Relationship with M&T Bank Corporation (“M&T”) The disposal of Allfirst and the concurrent acquisition of a 22.5% shareholding and board representation in M&T in 2002 meant that the Group’s main operations in the US changed from a wholly owned subsidiary to that of an investment in an associated undertaking, with a resulting reduction in control. Management believes that this transaction allows it to continue to prudently grow its business in the US, benefitting from a more effective day-to-day control over its US operations by the M&T management team, while recognizing that AIB does not exercize a controlling influence on the operations of M&T. In connection with this transaction the Group has responsibilities to regulators as a source of financial strength and support in respect of the enlarged M&T business. 5 Table of Contents 