Risk factors The Group’s activities are subject to risk factors that could impact its future performance. Certain of these risks can be mitigated by the use of safeguards and appropriate systems and actions. Some risks, however, are outside the Group’s control and cannot be mitigated. In addition to the matters set out under “Forward-Looking Information”, on page 2 of this report, the principal factors that may affect the Group’s performance are set out below: Competition The Group faces strong competition across all its markets from local and international financial institutions, including banks, building societies, life insurance companies and mutual insurance organizations. A more detailed discussion of these competitive factors, including the Group’s main competitors, is included in Item 4, “Information on the Company – Competition”. Uncertain economic conditions/current market conditions The Group’s business activities are dependant on the level of banking, finance and financial services required by its customers. In particular, levels of borrowing are heavily dependant on customer confidence, market interest rates and other factors that affect the economy. The Group conducts extensive activities in Ireland and elsewhere, most notably in the UK, Poland and the US. The profitability of the Group’s businesses could, therefore, be adversely affected by a worsening of general economic conditions in its markets, as well as by foreign and domestic trading market conditions and/or related factors, including governmental policies and initiatives. An economic downturn or significantly higher interest rates could increase the risk that a greater number of the Group’s customers would default on their loans or other obligations to the Group, or would refrain from seeking additional borrowing. Although growth in past years has been strong, more recently the Irish economy has experienced decreasing rates of growth. Demand for housing has fallen back from the very high levels recorded in recent years. Any significant deterioration in Irish and/or UK property prices could adversely affect the Group’s financial condition and results of operations. See Item 4 “Information on the company - Economic conditions affecting the Group”. Beginning in the latter half of 2007, the debt and equity markets have experienced market turmoil triggered principally by global concerns over exposures to US subprime mortgages. This has severely curtailed access to term debt for all banks including AIB, making markets less liquid and increasing the cost of funding. Pricing of asset portfolios has also been impacted - see Item 5 “Operating and financial review and prospects”. In addition to the general economic conditions mentioned above, any prolonged global market dislocation could adversely affect the Group’s profitability. Relationship with M&T The disposal of Allfirst and the concurrent acquisition of a 22.5% (24.3% at December 31, 2007) stockholding and board representation in M&T in 2003 changed the nature of the Group’s main operations in the US from a wholly owned subsidiary to that of an investment in an associated undertaking, with a resulting reduction in control. Because AIB does not exercise a controlling influence on the operations of M&T, the Group will continue to be affected by lending and other activities undertaken by M&T in the United States. Although the Group has only a minority share in M&T, it continues to have responsibilities to regulators as a source of financial strength and support in respect of M&T. Impact of strategic decisions taken by the Group The Group devotes substantial management and planning resources to the development of strategic plans for organic growth and identification of possible acquisitions, supported by substantial expenditure to generate growth in customer business. If these strategic plans do not deliver as anticipated, the Group’s earnings could grow more slowly or decline. In recent months, the Group has acquired interests in Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia and has entered into an agreement to acquire an interest in Bulgaria and may in the future acquire additional interests in these and other developing eastern european countries. Investments in developing eastern european economies carry the risk that these economies will not grow as anticipated. The Group’s success in these countries may also be affected by differences in regulatory and compliance frameworks between these countries and others in which the Group operates. These factors could have an adverse impact on the Group’s earnings. Key risks Like other banks, the Group faces risk in the conduct of its business. The Group has identified certain risk types through its risk assessment process and a detailed discussion of these risks are set out in Item 11 – Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about risk. Certain of these are summarized below. Credit risk Credit risk is defined as the risk that a customer or counterparty will be unable or unwilling to meet a commitment that it has entered into and that pledged collateral does not fully cover the Group’s claims. Credit risk is influenced by country risk, where country risk is defined as the risk that circumstances arise in which customers and other counterparties within a given country may be unable to, or precluded from fulfilling their obligations to the Group due to economic or political circumstances. Credit risk is also influenced by settlement risk. Settlement risk arises in any situation where a payment in cash, securities or equities is made in the expectation of a corresponding receipt in cash, securities or equities. 6 Table of Contents Market risk Market risk is defined as the risk to the Group’s earnings and stockholder value resulting from adverse movements in the level or volatility of market prices of debt instruments, equities and currencies. The market risk associated with the Group’s trading activities is predominantly the result of the facilitation of client business and running proprietary positions in debt instruments, foreign exchange and equity products. In addition, the Group assumes market risk as a result of its group-wide balance sheet and capital management responsibilities. The management of the Group’s market risk activities is predominantly centralised in the Capital Markets division, specifically within Global Treasury, as the only business unit mandated to conduct proprietary trading with the wholesale markets. The Group’s brokerage businesses are mandated to take moderate market risk. Non-trading interest rate risk Non-trading interest rate risk is defined as the Group’s sensitivity to earnings volatility in its non-trading activity arising from movements in interest rates. This is referred to as interest rate risk in the banking book. It reflects a combination of non-trading treasury activity and interest rate risk arising in the retail, commercial and corporate operations. AIB’s treasury activity includes its money market business and management of internal funds flows with the Group’s businesses. These treasury transactions are also captured under the market risk VaR assessment measure. Non-trading interest rate risk in retail, commercial and corporate banking activities can arise from a variety of sources, including where those assets and liabilities and off-balance sheet instruments have different repricing dates. Structural foreign exchange risk Structural foreign exchange rate risk arises from the Group’s non-trading net asset position in foreign currencies. This arises almost entirely from the Group’s net investments in its sterling, US dollar and Polish zloty-based subsidiaries and associates. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its obligations when they fall due and to replace funds when they are withdrawn, with consequent failure to pay depositors and fulfil commitments to lend. The risk that it will be unable to do so is inherent in all banking operations and can be impacted by a range of institution specific and market-wide events including, but not limited to, credit events, merger and acquisition activity and systemic shocks. Operational risk Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events. In essence, operational risk is a broad canvas of individual risk types which include information technology and business continuity risk, internal and external fraud risk, as well as fiduciary and legal risk. Regulatory risk Failure to comply with regulation constitutes a risk in the financial services industry. The Group’s business activities are subject to substantial regulation and regulatory oversight in the geographies in which it operates. In recent years, there have been regulatory changes in Ireland, the UK, Poland and the US that have resulted in significantly increased compliance responsibilities and associated costs. See Item 4 “Information on the company - Supervision and regulation” for further detail. These and future regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on how the Group conducts its business and on its results of operations. Instances of non-compliance with Irish regulatory obligations have been identified in recent years and management is committed to further embedding a compliance culture throughout the Group. The Group’s business and earnings are also affected by fiscal and other policies that are adopted by the various regulatory authorities of the Irish Government, the European Union, foreign governments and international agencies. The nature and impact of future changes in such policies are not predictable and are beyond the Group’s control. 7 Table of Contents 