Item 1A. RISK FACTORS There are a number of risks and uncertainties that can have a material effect on the operating results of our businesses and our financial condition. These risk factors include, but are not limited to, the following: General • Our future performance is influenced by costs incurred by our operating companies including, for example, the cost of energy and raw materials. These costs include, without limitation, the cost of resin (the raw material on which Film Products primarily depends), natural gas (the principal fuel necessary for Aluminum Extrusions’ plants to operate), electricity and diesel fuel. Resin and natural gas prices have risen significantly, 3 and may continue to do so in the future. Tredegar attempts to mitigate the effects of increased costs through price increases and contractual pass-through provisions, but there are no assurances that higher prices can effectively be passed through to our customers or that we will be able to offset fully or on a timely basis the effects of higher raw material costs through price increases or pass-through arrangements. Further, there is no assurance that cost control efforts will be sufficient to offset any additional future declines in revenue or increases in energy, raw material or other costs. • Our substantial international operations subject us to risks of doing business in foreign countries, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks inherent in international operations include the following, by way of example: changes in general economic conditions, potential difficulty enforcing agreements and intellectual property rights, restrictions on foreign trade or investment, fluctuations in exchange rates, imposition of additional taxes on our foreign income, nationalization of private enterprises and unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws and regulatory requirements. Film Products • Film Products is highly dependent on sales associated with one customer, P&G. P&G comprised approximately 25% of Tredegar’s net sales in 2005, 27% in 2004 and 29% in 2003. The loss or significant reduction of sales associated with P&G would have a material adverse effect on our business, as would delays in P&G rolling out products utilizing new technologies developed by Tredegar. While we have undertaken efforts to expand our customer base, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful, or that they will offset any delay or loss of sales and profits associated with P&G. • Growth of Film Products depends on our ability to develop and deliver new products at competitive prices, especially in the personal care market. Personal care products are now being made with a variety of new materials, replacing traditional backsheet and other components. While we have substantial technical resources, there can be no assurance that our new products can be brought to market successfully, or if brought to market successfully, at the same level of profitability and market share of replaced films. A shift in customer preferences away from our technologies, our inability to develop and deliver new profitable products, or delayed acceptance of our new products in domestic or foreign markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the long term, growth will depend on our ability to provide innovative materials at or below existing material costs, including lowering equipment and other capital costs. • Film Products operates in a field where our significant customers and competitors have substantial intellectual property portfolios. The continued success of this business depends on our ability not only to protect our own technologies and trade secrets, but also to develop and sell new products that do not infringe upon existing patents. Although we are not currently involved in any patent litigation, an unfavorable outcome of any such action could have a significant adverse impact on Film Products. • As Film Products expands its personal care business, we have greater credit risk that is inherent in broadening our customer base. Aluminum Extrusions • Sales volume and profitability of Aluminum Extrusions is cyclical and highly dependent on economic conditions of end-use markets in the United States and Canada, particularly in the construction, distribution and transportation industries. Our market segments are also subject to seasonal slowdowns during the winter months. Because of the high degree of operating leverage inherent in our operations (generally constant fixed costs until full capacity utilization is achieved), the percentage drop in operating profits in a cyclical downturn will likely exceed the percentage drop in volume. Any benefits associated with cost reductions and productivity improvements may not be sufficient to offset the adverse effects on profitability from pricing and margin pressure and higher bad debts that usually accompany a downturn. In addition, higher energy costs and the appreciation of the U.S. Dollar equivalent value of the Canadian Dollar can further reduce profits unless 4 offset by price increases or cost reductions and productivity improvements. In 2004, operating profit from ongoing operations in Aluminum Extrusions increased to $22.6 million from $15.1 million in 2003. The $7.5 million or 50% increase in operating profit on 6.7% volume growth during this period was primarily due to operating leverage and pricing improvements. In 2005, operating profit from ongoing operations in Aluminum Extrusions decreased to $19.3 million (down $3.3 million from 2004 or 14.7%) despite higher selling prices and 1.2% volume growth due to higher energy costs (adverse impact estimated of approximately $7 million) and appreciation of the Canadian Dollar (adverse impact estimated of about $3.5 million). • The markets for our products are highly competitive with product quality, service, delivery performance and price being the principal competitive factors. Aluminum Extrusions has around 1,800 customers in a variety of end-use markets within the broad categories of building and construction, distribution, transportation, machinery and equipment, electrical and consumer durables. No single customer exceeds 4% of Aluminum Extrusion’s net sales. Due to the diverse customer mix across many end-use markets, we believe the industry generally tracks the real growth of the overall economy (historical cross-cycle volume growth has been in the 3% range). During improving economic conditions, excess industry capacity is absorbed and pricing pressure becomes less of a factor in many of our end-use markets. Conversely, during an economic slowdown, excess industry capacity often drives increased pricing pressure in many end-use markets as competitors protect their position with key customers. Because the business is susceptible to these changing economic conditions, Aluminum Extrusions targets complex, customized, service-intensive business with more challenging requirements which is competitively more defensible compared to higher volume, standard extrusion applications. Foreign imports, primarily from China, represent a growing portion of the North American aluminum extrusion market. Foreign competition to date has been primarily large volume, standard extrusion profiles that impact some of our less strategic end-use markets. Market share erosion in other end-use markets remains possible. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain current margins and profitability. Our continued success and prospects depend on our ability to retain existing customers and participate in overall industry cross-cycle growth. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 