ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain risk factors that could affect the Company’s business, financial results and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. Before purchasing the Company’s stock, an investor should know that making such an investment involves some risks, including the risks described below. This list highlights some of the major factors that could affect the Company’s operations or stock price, but cannot enumerate all the potential issues that management faces on a day-to-day basis, many of which are totally out of management’s control. If any of the risks mentioned or others actually occur, the Company’s business, financial 4 Table of Contents condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of its stock could fluctuate significantly. Product Pricing and Volatility of Copper Market Price competition for copper electrical wire and cable is intense, and the Company sells its product in accordance with prevailing market prices. Copper, a commodity product, is the principal raw material used in the Company’s manufacturing operations. Copper accounted for approximately 82.3% and 76.8% of its costs of goods sold during 2006 and 2005, respectively, and the Company expects that copper will continue to account for a significant portion of these costs in the future. The price of copper fluctuates, depending on general economic conditions and in relation to supply and demand and other factors, and causes monthly variations in the cost of copper purchased by the Company. The Company cannot predict copper prices in the future or the effect of fluctuations in the costs of copper on the Company’s future operating results. Consequently, fluctuations in copper prices caused by market forces can significantly affect the Company’s financial results. Operating Results May Fluctuate Encore’s quarterly results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuation in the demand for and shipments of the Company’s products. Therefore, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations have been and will be impacted by the volume of such orders and shipments. In addition, its operating results could be adversely affected by the following factors, among others, such as variations in the mix of product sales, price changes in response to competitive factors, increases in raw material costs and other significant costs, the loss of key manufacturers representatives who sell the Company’s product line, increases in utility costs (particularly electricity and natural gas) and various types of insurance coverage and interruptions in plant operations resulting from the interruption of raw material supplies and other factors. Reliance on Senior Management Encore’s future operating results depend, in part, upon the continued service of its senior management, including, Mr. Daniel L. Jones, the President and Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Frank J. Bilban, the Company’s Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (neither of whom are bound by an employment agreement). The Company’s future success will depend upon its continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial and technical personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that the Company will retain its key managerial and technical employees or that it will be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining other highly qualified personnel in the future. Industry Conditions and Cyclicality The residential, commercial and industrial construction industries, which are the end users of the Company’s products, are cyclical and are affected by a number of factors including changes in interest rates, the general condition of the economy and market demand. Industry sales of electrical wire and cable products tend to parallel general construction activity, which includes remodeling. There can be no assurance that future downturns in the residential, commercial or industrial construction industries will not have a material adverse effect on the Company. Competition The electrical wire and cable industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with several manufacturers of wire and cable products that have substantially greater resources than the Company. Some of these competitors are owned and operated by large, diversified companies. The Company’s primary competitors include Southwire Company, Cerro Wire and Cable Co., Inc., United Copper Industries and AFC Cable Systems, Inc. The principal elements of competition in the wire and cable industry are, in the opinion of the Company, pricing, product availability and quality and, in some instances, breadth of product line. The Company believes that it is competitive with respect to all of these factors. While the number of firms producing wire and cable has declined in the past, there can be no assurance that new competitors will not emerge or that existing producers will not employ or improve upon the Company’s manufacturing and marketing strategy. Common Stock Price May Fluctuate Future announcements concerning Encore or its competitors or customers, quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations, the introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by the Company or its competitors, developments regarding proprietary rights, changes in earnings estimates by analysts or reports regarding the Company or its industry in the financial press or investment advisory publications, among other factors, could cause the market price of the Common Stock to fluctuate substantially. These 5 Table of Contents fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, world events, military conflicts or market or market-sector declines, may materially and adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock. Future Sales of Common Stock Could Affect Price of Common Stock No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of shares or the availability of shares for sale will have on the market price of the Common Stock prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of Common Stock, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of the Common Stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 