Item 1A. RISK FACTORS There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on the operating results of our businesses and our consolidated financial condition and liquidity. The following risk factors should be considered, in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 (“Form 10-K”), when evaluating Tredegar and our businesses: General • Our performance is influenced by costs incurred by our operating companies, including, for example, the cost of raw materials and energy. These costs include, without limitation, the cost of resin, PTA and MEG (the raw materials on which Film Products primarily depends), aluminum (the raw material on which Aluminum Extrusions primarily depends), natural gas (the principal fuel necessary for Aluminum Extrusions’ plants to operate), electricity and diesel fuel. Resin, aluminum and natural gas prices are extremely volatile as shown in the charts on pages 35-36. We attempt to mitigate the effects of increased costs through price increases and contractual pass-through provisions, but there are no assurances that higher prices can effectively be passed through to our customers or that we will be able to offset fully or on a timely basis the effects of higher raw material and energy costs through price increases or pass-through arrangements. Further, our cost control efforts may not be sufficient to offset any additional future declines in revenue or increases in raw material, energy or other costs. • Tredegar and its customers operate in highly competitive markets. Tredegar and its businesses compete on product innovation, quality, price and service, and our businesses and their customers operate in highly competitive markets. Global market conditions continue to exacerbate our exposure to margin compression due to competitive forces, especially as certain products move into the later stages of their product life cycles. We attempt to mitigate the effects of this trend through cost saving measures and manufacturing efficiency initiatives, but these efforts may not be sufficient to offset the impact of margin compression as a result of competitive pressure. • Tredegar may not be able to successfully execute its acquisition strategy. New acquisitions, such as our October 2011 acquisition of Terphane and our October 2012 acquisition of AACOA, can provide meaningful opportunities to grow our business and improve profitability. Acquired businesses may not achieve expected levels of revenue, profit or productivity, or otherwise perform as we expect. Acquisitions involve special risks, 5 Table of Contents including, without limitation, diversion of management’s time and attention from our existing businesses, the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies and potential difficulties in integrating acquired businesses and achieving anticipated operational improvements. While our strategy is to acquire businesses that will improve our competitiveness and profitability, acquisitions may not be successful or accretive to earnings. • Noncompliance with any of the covenants in our $350 million credit facility could result in all debt under the agreement outstanding at such time becoming due and limiting our borrowing capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. The credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility contains restrictions and financial covenants that could restrict our operational and financial flexibility. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, would result in all outstanding debt under the credit facility at such time becoming due, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. Renegotiation of the covenant(s) through an amendment to our revolving credit facility may effectively cure the noncompliance, but may have a negative effect on our consolidated financial condition or liquidity depending upon how the amended covenant is renegotiated. • Loss of certain key officers or employees could adversely affect our businesses. We depend on our senior executive officers and other key personnel to run our businesses. The loss of any of these officers or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Competition for qualified employees among companies that rely heavily on engineering and technology is intense, and the loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our businesses could hinder our ability to improve manufacturing operations, conduct research activities successfully and develop marketable products. • Tredegar is subject to increased credit risk that is inherent with economic uncertainty and efforts to increase market share as we attempt to broaden our customer base. In the event of the deterioration of operating cash flows or diminished borrowing capacity of our customers, the collection of trade receivable balances may be delayed or deemed unlikely. The operations of our customers for Aluminum Extrusions generally follow the cycles within the economy, resulting in greater credit risk from diminished operating cash flows and higher bankruptcy rates when the economy is deteriorating or in recession. In addition, Film Products’ credit risk exposure could increase as efforts to expand its business may lead to a broader, more diverse customer base. • Tredegar is subject to various environmental laws and regulations and could become exposed to material liabilities and costs associated with such laws. We are subject to various environmental obligations and could become subject to additional obligations in the future. In the case of known potential liabilities, it is management’s judgment that the resolution of ongoing and/or pending environmental remediation obligations is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or liquidity. In any given period or periods, however, it is possible such obligations or matters could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations, or their application, including, but not limited to, those relating to global climate change, could subject us to significant additional capital expenditures and operating expenses. Moreover, future developments in federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations are difficult to predict. Environmental laws have become and are expected to continue to become increasingly strict. As a result, we will be subject to new environmental laws and regulations. However, any such changes are uncertain and, therefore, it is not possible for us to predict with certainty the amount of additional capital expenditures or operating expenses that could be necessary for compliance with respect to any such changes. • Tredegar could be required to make additional cash contributions to its defined benefit (pension) plan. We sponsor a pension plan that covers certain hourly and salaried employees in the U.S. Recent economic trends have resulted in a significant reduction in interest rates and plan asset investment returns. Cash contribution requirements for the pension plan are sensitive to changes in these market factors. We expect that we will be required to make a cash contribution of approximately $0.2 million to our underfunded pension plan in 2013, and we may be required to make additional cash contributions in future periods if current trends in interest rates continue, volatility in investment returns on plan assets persist or if our plan asset investment returns lag market performance. 6 Table of Contents • An information technology system failure may adversely affect our business. We rely on information technology systems to transact our businesses. An information technology system failure due to computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, power interruptions, hardware failures, fire, natural disasters, human error, or other causes could disrupt our operations and prevent us from being able to process transactions with our customers, operate our manufacturing facilities, and properly report those transactions in a timely manner. A significant, protracted information technology system failure may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. • Material disruptions at one of our major manufacturing facilities could negatively impact our financial results. We believe our facilities are operated in compliance with applicable local laws and regulations and that we have implemented measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. A material disruption in one of our operating locations could negatively impact production and our financial results. Such a disruption could be a result of any number of events, including but not limited to: an equipment failure with repairs requiring long lead times, labor stoppages or shortages, utility disruptions, constraints on the supply or delivery of critical raw materials, and severe weather conditions. • An inability to renegotiate one of our collective bargaining agreements could adversely affect our financial results. Some of our employees are represented by labor unions under various collective bargaining agreements with varying durations and expiration dates. Tredegar may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate collective bargaining agreements when they expire, which could result in strikes or work stoppages or higher labor costs. In addition, existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at our facilities in the future. Any such work stoppages (or potential work stoppages) could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products and adversely affect results of operations. • Our investments (primarily $7.5 million of investments in Intelliject and a $3.6 million net investment in Harbinger) have high risk. The value of our investment in a specialty pharmaceutical company, Intelliject, Inc. (“Intelliject”), can fluctuate, primarily as a result of its ability to meet its developmental and commercialization milestones within an anticipated time frame. Intelliject received approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for its first product in 2012, with market launch of the product in the first quarter of 2013. As Intelliject continues to invest in its product pipeline, it may require additional rounds of financing to have the opportunity to complete product pipeline development and bring its technology to market, which may never occur. The estimated fair value of our investment was $33.7 million at December 31, 2012. Harbinger Capital Partners Special Situations Fund, L.P. (“Harbinger”) is a private investment fund, and an investment in the fund involves risk and is subject to limitations on withdrawal. The amount of future installments of withdrawal proceeds is uncertain, and the timing of such payments is not known. There is no secondary market for selling our interests in either investment. As a result, we may be required to bear the risk of our investment in Intelliject and Harbinger for an indefinite period of time. Film Products • Film Products is highly dependent on sales associated with one customer, P&G. P&G comprised approximately 31% of Tredegar’s consolidated net sales from continuing operations in 2012, 36% in 2011 and 38% in 2010. The loss or significant reduction of sales associated with P&G would have a material adverse effect on our business. Other P&G-related factors that could adversely affect our business include, by way of example, (i) failure by P&G to achieve success or maintain share in markets in which P&G sells products containing our materials, (ii) operational decisions by P&G that result in component substitution, inventory reductions and similar changes, (iii) delays in P&G rolling out products utilizing new technologies developed by us and (iv) P&G rolling out products utilizing technologies developed by others that replace our business with P&G. While we have undertaken efforts to expand our customer base, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful, or that they will offset any delay or loss of sales and profits associated with P&G. 7 Table of Contents • Growth of Film Products depends on our ability to develop and deliver new products at competitive prices. Personal care materials, surface protection films and polyethylene overwrap and polypropylene films are now being made with a variety of new materials and the overall cycle for changing materials has accelerated. While we have substantial technological resources, there can be no assurance that our new products can be brought to market successfully, or if brought to market successfully, at the same level of profitability and market share of replaced films. A shift in customer preferences away from our technologies, our inability to develop and deliver new profitable products, or delayed acceptance of our new products in domestic or foreign markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. In the long term, growth will depend on our ability to provide innovative materials at a price that meets our customers’ needs. • Failure of our customers, who are subject to cyclical downturns, to achieve success or maintain market share could adversely impact sales and operating margins. Our products serve as components for various consumer products sold worldwide. Our customers’ ability to successfully develop, manufacture and market their products is integral to our success. In addition, many of our customers are in industries that are cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in general economic conditions. Downturns in the businesses that use our products can adversely affect our sales and operating margins. • Continued growth in Film Products’ sale of protective film products is not assured. A shift in our customers’ preference to new or different products or new technology that displaces the need for protective films that currently utilize our surface protection applications could have a material adverse effect on our sales of protective films. Surface protection films accounted for approximately 8%, 9% and 12% of Tredegar’s consolidated net sales from continuing operations in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Unanticipated changes in the demand for our customers’ products, a decline in the rate of growth for flat panel displays or improvements in the durability of flat panel displays could have a material adverse effect on protective film sales. • Our substantial international operations subject us to risks of doing business in countries outside the U.S., which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks inherent in international operations include the following, by way of example: changes in general economic conditions or governmental policies, potential difficulty enforcing agreements and intellectual property rights, modifications in foreign tax laws and incentives, staffing and managing widespread operations and the challenges of complying with a wide variety of laws and regulations, restrictions on international trade or investment, restrictions on the repatriation of income, fluctuations in exchange rates, imposition of additional taxes on our income generated outside the U.S., nationalization of private enterprises and unexpected adverse changes in international laws and regulatory requirements. In addition, while expanding operations into emerging foreign markets provides greater opportunities for growth, there are certain operating risks, as previously noted. • Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights or our infringement of the intellectual property rights of others could have a material adverse impact on Film Products. Film Products operates in an industry where our significant customers and competitors have substantial intellectual property portfolios. The continued success of this business depends on our ability not only to protect our own technologies and trade secrets, but also to develop and sell new products that do not infringe upon existing patents or threaten existing customer relationships. An unfavorable outcome in any intellectual property litigation or similar proceeding could have a materially adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations in Film Products. • U.S. and global economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the operating results of some or all of our operations. As Films Products expands its business into new products and geographic regions, operating results and our financial condition could become more sensitive to changes in macroeconomic conditions, including fluctuations in exchange rates. Sales associated with new products and regions tend to more closely follow the cycles within the economy. Cost reductions and productivity improvements may not be sufficient to offset the adverse effects on profitability from lower customer demand in an economic downturn. Therefore, as such product offerings become a greater part of the film products business, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely impacted by seasonal slowdowns, cyclical downturns in the economy or changes in foreign currency rates. 8 Table of Contents • An unstable economic environment could have a disruptive impact on our supply chain. Certain raw materials used in manufacturing our products are available from a single supplier, and we may not be able to quickly or inexpensively re-source to another supplier. The risk of damage or disruption to our supply chain has been exacerbated as different suppliers have consolidated their product portfolios or experienced financial distress. Failure to take adequate steps to effectively manage such events, which are intensified when a product is sourced from a single supplier or location, could adversely affect our business and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. Aluminum Extrusions • Sales volume and profitability of Aluminum Extrusions is cyclical and highly dependent on economic conditions of end-use markets in the U.S., particularly in the construction sector. Our end-use markets can be subject to seasonal slowdowns. Because of the high degree of operating leverage inherent in our operations (generally constant fixed costs until full capacity utilization is achieved), the percentage drop in operating profits in a cyclical downturn will likely exceed the percentage drop in volume. Any benefits associated with cost reductions and productivity improvements may not be sufficient to offset the adverse effects on profitability from pricing and margin pressure and higher bad debts (including a greater chance of loss associated with defaults on fixed-price forward sales contracts with our customers) that usually accompany a downturn. In addition, higher energy costs can further reduce profits unless offset by price increases or cost reductions and productivity improvements. Although our sales volumes have improved in recent years, there is uncertainty surrounding the extent and timing of a full recovery in the building and construction sector. Therefore, the extent and timing of the recovery of sales volumes and profits for Aluminum Extrusions is uncertain, especially since there can be a lag in the recovery of its end-use markets in comparison to the overall economic recovery. • The markets for our products are highly competitive with product quality, service, delivery performance and price being the principal competitive factors. Aluminum Extrusions has approximately 1,200 customers that are in a variety of end-use markets within the broad categories of building and construction, distribution, transportation, machinery and equipment, electrical and consumer durables. No single customer exceeds 5% of Aluminum Extrusions’ net sales. Due to the diverse customer mix across many end-use markets, we believe the industry generally tracks the real growth of the overall economy. Future success and prospects depend on our ability to retain existing customers and participate in overall industry cross-cycle growth. During improving economic conditions, excess industry capacity is absorbed and pricing pressure becomes less of a factor in many of our end-use markets. Conversely, during an economic slowdown, excess industry capacity often drives increased pricing pressure in many end-use markets as competitors protect their position with key customers. Because the business is susceptible to these changing economic conditions, Aluminum Extrusions targets complex, customized, service-intensive business with more challenging requirements in order to differentiate itself from competitors that focus on higher volume, standard extrusion applications. In the past, imports into the U.S., primarily from China, represented an increasing portion of the U.S. aluminum extrusion market. However, following an affirmative determination by the U.S. International Trade Commission in April 2011 that dumped and subsidized imports of aluminum extrusion from China are a cause of material injury to the domestic industry, the U.S. Department of Commerce has applied duties to these imported products. As a result, aluminum extrusion imports from China have decreased significantly. While the risk to the domestic industry has been abated for the time being, efforts continue to address the challenges and circumvention issues that remain. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 9 Table of Contents 