Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are risk factors that could affect the Company’s business, financial results and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. Before purchasing the Company’s stock, an investor should know that making such an investment involves some risks, including the risks described below. If any of the risks mentioned below or other unknown risks actually occur, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of its stock could fluctuate significantly. Product Pricing and Volatility of Copper Market Price competition for copper electrical wire and cable is intense, and the Company sells its product in accordance with prevailing market prices. Wire prices can, and frequently do change on a daily basis. This competitive pricing market for wire does not always mirror changes in copper prices, making margins highly volatile. Copper, a commodity 5 Table of Contents product, is the principal raw material used in the Company’s manufacturing operations. Copper accounted for approximately 86.1%, 81.1% and 73.5% of its costs of goods sold during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and the Company expects that copper will continue to account for a significant portion of these costs in the future. The price of copper fluctuates, depending on general economic conditions and in relation to supply and demand and other factors, and causes monthly variations in the cost of copper purchased by the Company. The Company cannot predict copper prices in the future or the effect of fluctuations in the costs of copper on the Company’s future operating results. Consequently, fluctuations in copper prices caused by market forces can significantly affect the Company’s financial results. With the volatility of both raw material prices and wire prices in the Company’s end market, hedging raw materials can be risky. Historically, the Company has not engaged in hedging strategies for raw material purchases. Operating Results May Fluctuate Encore’s quarterly results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuation in the demand for and shipments of the Company’s products. Therefore, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations have been and will be impacted by the volume of such orders and shipments. In addition, its operating results could be adversely affected by the following factors, among others, such as variations in the mix of product sales, price changes in response to competitive factors, increases in raw material costs and other significant costs, the loss of key manufacturer’s representatives who sell the Company’s product line, increases in utility costs (particularly electricity and natural gas) and various types of insurance coverage and interruptions in plant operations resulting from the interruption of raw material supplies and other factors. Reliance on Senior Management Encore’s future operating results depend, in part, upon the continued service of its senior management, Mr. Daniel L. Jones, the President and Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Frank J. Bilban, the Company’s Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (neither of whom are bound by an employment agreement). The Company’s future success will depend upon its continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial and technical personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that the Company will retain its key managerial and technical employees or that it will be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining other highly qualified personnel in the future. Industry Conditions and Cyclicality The residential, commercial and industrial construction industry, which is the end user of the Company’s products, is cyclical and is affected by a number of factors including the general condition of the economy, market demand and changes in interest rates, among other factors. Industry sales of electrical wire and cable products tend to parallel general construction activity, which includes remodeling. Housing construction activity in the United States declined significantly in 2006 and continued its downward trend through 2010, adversely affecting the Company’s business by reducing our customers’ demand for our products. Commercial and Industrial construction activity began declining at the beginning of 2008 and continued to decrease through 2010, further reducing demand for our products. The Company’s unit sales volume, as measured in pounds of copper wire sold, declined 15.6% in 2009 versus 2008 and declined another 3.8% in 2010 versus 2009. In 2011, the Company’s unit sales volume increased 6.2% compared to 2010. The Company believes that the volume of product sold declined primarily as a result of the slowdown in construction throughout the United States. The Company also believes that the reduced percentage decline in the Company’s unit sales volume in 2010 and the increase in 2011 was caused, in part, by the exit of a former competitor from the industry in the first quarter of 2010. However, the ongoing recession in the United States and the overhang of excess housing and commercial and industrial buildings may have a negative impact on the construction industry for some time to come. Deterioration in the financial condition of the Company’s customers due to current industry and economic conditions may result in reduced sales, an inability to collect receivables and payment delays or losses due to a customer’s bankruptcy or insolvency. Although the Company’s bad debt experience has been relatively low even in recent years, the Company’s inability to collect receivables may increase the amounts the Company must expense against its bad debt reserve, decreasing the Company’s profitability. The downturn in the residential, commercial or industrial construction industries and general economic conditions as a whole may continue to have a material adverse effect on the Company. Environmental Liabilities The Company is subject to federal, state and local environmental protection laws and regulations governing the Company’s operations and the use, handling, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances currently or formerly used by the Company. A risk of environmental liability is inherent in the Company’s current manufacturing activities in 6 Table of Contents the event of a release or discharge of a hazardous substance generated by the Company. Under certain environmental laws, the Company could be held jointly and severally responsible for the remediation of any hazardous substance contamination at the Company’s facilities and at third party waste disposal sites and could also be held liable for any consequences arising out of human exposure to such substances or other environmental damage. There can be no assurance that the costs of complying with environmental, health and safety laws and requirements in the Company’s current operations or the liabilities arising from past releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, will not result in future expenditures by the Company that could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial results, cash flow or financial condition. Competition The electrical wire and cable industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with several manufacturers of wire and cable products that have substantially greater resources than the Company. Some of these competitors are owned and operated by large, diversified companies. The principal elements of competition in the wire and cable industry are, in the opinion of the Company, pricing, product availability and quality and, in some instances, breadth of product line. The Company believes that it is competitive with respect to all of these factors. Our largest competitor purchased another significant competitor in the first quarter of 2010, which we believe has had a positive impact on pricing levels and margins. While the number of firms producing wire and cable has declined in the past, there can be no assurance that new competitors will not emerge or that existing producers will not employ or improve upon the Company’s manufacturing and marketing strategy. Patent and Intellectual Property Disputes Disagreements about patents and intellectual property rights occur in the wire and cable industry. The unfavorable resolution of a patent or intellectual property dispute could preclude the Company from manufacturing and selling certain products or could require the Company to pay a royalty on the sale of certain products. Patent and intellectual property disputes could also result in substantial legal fees and other costs. Common Stock Price May Fluctuate Future announcements concerning Encore or its competitors or customers, quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations, the introduction of new products or changes in product pricing policies by the Company or its competitors, developments regarding proprietary rights, changes in earnings estimates by analysts or reports regarding the Company or its industry in the financial press or investment advisory publications, among other factors, could cause the market price of the Common Stock to fluctuate substantially. These fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, world events, military conflicts or market or market-sector declines, may materially and adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock. Beneficial Ownership of the Company’s Common Stock by a Small Number of Stockholders A small number of significant stockholders beneficially own greater than 50% of the outstanding common stock of the Company. These stockholders, acting together, could be able to control the election of directors and all matters requiring majority approval by the Company’s stockholders. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with the Company’s interests or the interests of other stockholders. In the future, these stockholders could sell large amounts of common stock over relatively short periods of time. In February 2010, the Company entered into a Registration Rights Agreement with Capital Southwest Corporation and Capital Southwest Venture Corporation (together, the “Capital Southwest”), pursuant to which the Company agreed to register the offer and sale of an aggregate of 4,086,750 shares of the Company’s common stock held by Capital Southwest on a registration statement on Form S-3 (the “Registration”). The Company cannot predict if, when or in what amounts Capital Southwest will sell any of the shares covered by the Registration. However, the Registration enables Capital Southwest to sell all of such shares in the public market without any volume limitation, subject to certain trading restrictions. Sales of substantial amounts of the Company’s common stock in the public market by existing stockholders or the perception that these sales could occur, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock by creating a public perception of difficulties or problems with the Company’s business. Future Sales of Common Stock Could Affect the Price of the Common Stock No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of shares or the availability of shares for sale will have on the market price of the Common Stock prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of Common Stock, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of the Common Stock. 7 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 