ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are many factors that affect our business and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of some important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements and from historical trends. We rely on a small number of large transactions for significant portions of our sales and gross margins, and our operating results and cash flows may decline significantly if we fail to secure additional large transactions. We rely on U.S. Federal Government agencies and departments to provide a substantial portion of our sales either directly or through prime contractors with which we work. We have derived, and believe that we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our sales from a limited number of projects and transactions with the U.S. Federal Government. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 92% of our sales came from the federal government. The completion or cancellation of a large project or a significant reduction in scope would significantly reduce our gross margins. In addition, if we fail to secure an equal number of large transactions in the future, our results will be negatively impacted. Any dispute, failure to exercise an extension, or contract not renewed as a result of a re-compete could have a material adverse impact on our future operating results and gross margins. We continue to shift our business model from a reseller of products to a high-end solutions provider and this new model has certain risks, including increased competition, which may impact future results. We continue to evolve our business from one which resells commodity IT products to one which provides value-added solutions to our government customers. A number of risks are inherent in this strategy. We may not be able to successfully maintain workforce which has the technical skills to provide more complex technology to customers. Services and solutions require different internal accounting, tracking, and project management procedures, and there is no assurance we will be able implement and maintain those necessary procedures. We are now competing against organizations which have greater experience and past performance in selling solutions to government customers. Some of these competitors also have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, generate greater sales and have greater name recognition than we do. Additionally, efforts spent on evolving to a high-end solutions business model may detract from operating results. 11 We believe our ability to continue to compete also depends in part on a number of competitive factors, including: · expertise in government procurement processes where standardized contracts exist; · existing customer and vendor relationships (for which there is traditionally a high barrier to entry); · technical expertise; · logistical capability; · the ability of our clients or competitors to hire and retain project managers and other senior technical staff; · the price at which others offer comparable technical solutions; and · the extent of our competitors’ responsiveness to client needs. If we are unable to compete effectively we could experience greater operating losses and our market share may decline, adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. We also will need to continue to develop additional internal technical capabilities to identify, develop, market and sell more complex solutions, and there is no assurance we will be successful in these endeavors. Any issue that compromises our relationship with agencies of the U.S. Federal Government would cause serious harm to our business. Our sales are highly dependent on the government’s demand for IT products. Direct and indirect sales to numerous agencies and departments of the U.S. Federal Government accounted for 92%, 92% and 95% of our sales in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We believe that U.S. Federal Government contracts will continue to be a source of the majority of our sales for the foreseeable future. For this reason, any issue that compromises our relationship with agencies of the U.S. Federal Government would cause serious harm to our business. A material decline in overall sales to the U.S. Federal Government as a whole, or to certain key agencies thereof, could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. Among the key factors in maintaining our relationships with U.S. Federal Government agencies are: · our performance on individual contracts and delivery orders; · the strength of our professional reputation; · the relationships of our key executives with customer personnel; and · our compliance with complex procurement laws and regulations related to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Federal Government contracts. To the extent that our performance does not meet customer expectations, or our reputation or relationships deteriorate, this would cause a negative effect on our sales, profitability and cash flow. Noncompliance with government procurement regulations or contract provisions could result in substantial monetary fines or damages, suspension or debarment from doing business with the U.S. Federal Government, and civil or criminal liability. Substantially all of our government contracts are terminable at any time at the government’s convenience or upon default. If a government customer terminates one of our contracts for convenience, we may recover, at most, only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expense, and profit on work completed prior to the termination. Upon termination of a government contract for default, the government reserves the right to recover the excess costs of procuring the specified goods and services from a different contractor although GTSI would reserve the right to appeal. The effect of unexpected contract terminations would negatively impact our financial results. 12 Adverse changes in U.S. Federal Government fiscal spending could have a negative effect on our sales, gross margin, and cash flow. Changes in U.S. Federal Government spending policies or budget priorities could directly affect our financial performance. Among the factors that could materially harm our business are: · a significant decline in spending by the U.S. Federal Government in general or by specific departments or agencies in particular; · changes in the structure, composition and/or buying patterns of the U.S. Federal Government; · the adoption of new laws or regulations changing procurement practices; or · delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices. These or other factors could cause U.S. Federal Government agencies and departments to reduce their purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts, or not to exercise options to renew contracts, any of which would cause us to lose future revenue. If we fail to comply with any material provision or covenant of our Credit Facility, we may not be able to continue to operate our business. The covenants of our Credit Facility impose certain operating restrictions and financial and reporting covenants on us. These restrictions and conditions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. These covenants require us, among other restrictions, to: · maintain a minimum availability of $5 million as reported on the Borrowing Base Certificate dated the last day of the month; · provide quarterly EBITDA numbers that comply with schedules set forth in the credit agreement; · not exceed a maximum of $4 million in capital expenditures during the fiscal year; During 2006, the Company signed two amendments to the credit agreement to change the reporting requirements and the minimum EBITDA covenants. The Company was in compliance with all financial covenants as set forth in the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2006. On March 30, 2007, the Company and its lenders executed an amendment to this Credit Agreement, which removed the minimum EBITDA covenant at March 31, 2007 and revised the minimum EBITDA covenant for future measurement periods. While the Company believes that we will remain in compliance with all of the financial and reporting covenants under the Credit Agreement, including the minimum EBITDA covenant based on the recent amendment, there can be no assurance that we will do so. A breach of any of the covenants or restrictions in the Credit Agreement could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement. Such a default could result in the lenders discontinuing lending or declaring all outstanding borrowings to be due and payable. If any of these events occur, we would need to find additional or alternative financing, if available, to refinance any such accelerated obligations. There can be no assurance that such financing would be available. Infrastructure failures could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are highly dependent on our infrastructure to process orders, track inventory, ship products in a timely manner, prepare invoices to our customers, recognize revenue and otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. In 2005, GTSI implemented a new supply chain management system , the GTSI Enterprise Management System (“GEMS”), with software provided by a third party. During 2005 and 2006, a significant number of enhancements and additional reporting capabilities were added which enabled management to make better decisions based on the information available. As of December 31, 13 2006, core processes were stabilized with many active programs underway to continue to improve core processes, but we cannot be assured that additional failures will not occur in the future. We have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could have a material adverse effect on our business and a negative impact on our stock price. We are currently in the process of implementing remediation measures to correct previously disclosed material weaknesses, and we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts or that the remediation measures will result in our having adequate internal control over financial reporting in the future. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will not in the future identify further deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to adequately remediate our material weaknesses and maintain an effective system of internal control, our ability to timely and accurately report financial results may continue to be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. Any failure to file periodic reports on a timely basis could have many consequences, including: potential delisting from NASDAQ, which would significantly impair the ability of our investors to buy and sell shares; lack of the timely disclosure to the market of our financial results; actions by the SEC against us for failure to comply with applicable Federal securities laws; and an event of default under the Credit Agreement with our lenders which would cancel our Credit Agreement and cause all outstanding loan obligations to become immediately due and payable. In addition, we may incur substantial costs in connection with these remediation measures and the implementation of such measures may distract management from its ordinary business functions. If we fail to align costs with our sales levels, net losses will continue. Our profitability is a function of our ability to generate sales, improve our efficiency, and control costs. We plan our operating expense levels based primarily on forecasted sales levels. These expenses and the impact of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short-term. A short fall in sales could lead to operating results being below expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce our fixed expenses in response to short term business changes. In response to sales short falls during the year ended December 31, 2005, we announced reduction in workforce actions in February 2006 resulting in the elimination of over 70 employee positions. Significant risks associated with reductions in workforce include decreases in employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees. During the year ended December 31, 2006 we incurred significant costs due to restatement related efforts, refinancing fees, and the impairment of our deferred tax asset. In addition, expenses related to our accounting and finance department increased, and are expected to continue in 2007, related to the remediation of previously disclosed material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting and the on-going remediation of significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in internal control. If we are unable to control our costs or generate sales to cover the costs required to run our business and correct our material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, our net losses will continue and our business could be adversely affected. Compliance with changing regulations of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ National Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are complex and subject to varying interpretations. These new or changed laws could result in higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, 14 increased selling, general and administrative expense and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. Further, our Board members, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified Board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. Our quarterly sales, operating results and cash flows are volatile, which makes our future financial results difficult to forecast. Our sales, operating results and cash flows have been, and are expected to continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors including: · The seasonality of our business due to the U.S. Federal Government’s buying and funding patterns; · Fluctuations in our gross margins due to variations in the mix of products sold and excess or obsolete inventory charges; · The number, size and scope of orders from our customers; · Demand for our services generated by strategic partnerships and certain prime contractors; · Availability of price protection, purchase discounts and rebate programs from vendors; · Contractual terms and degree of completion of projects; and · Changes in our sales cycles as we move towards solution selling Our recent level of product gross margins may not be sustainable. In addition, changes in services gross margin may result from various factors such as changes in the mix between technical support services and advanced services, as well as the timing of service contract initiations and renewals. As a consequence, sales volumes and operating results for future periods are difficult to predict and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Because we sometimes work with third parties, any failure by these third parties to satisfactorily perform their obligations could hurt our reputation, operating results and competitiveness. We offer certain of our services to our customers through various third-party service providers engaged to perform these services on our behalf. In addition, we outsource parts of our operations to third-parties and may continue to explore opportunities to outsource others. In these engagements, we may engage subcontractors or we may act as subcontractor to the prime contractor of an engagement. If these third parties fail to maintain adequate levels of support, do not provide high quality services or cease or reduce operations, our business, operations, customer relations and sales may be negatively impacted and we may be required to pursue replacement third-party relationships, which we may not be able to obtain on as favorable terms or at all. In addition, the inability to negotiate terms of a contract with a third party, the refusal or inability of these third parties to permit continued use of their services by us, or the termination by the client or prime contractor of our services or the services of a key subcontractor would harm our operating results. We may not qualify as a small business for new contract awards. GTSI maintains a “small business” status under its GSA Schedule contract, ITES contract and several BPAs it held in 2006 based upon GTSI’s size status at the time of the contracts’ original award dates. As a result, GTSI enjoys a number of benefits, including being able to compete for small business orders, 15 qualifying as a small business subcontractor, bidding pursuant to small purchase procedures directed to non-manufacturer small business, and offering government agencies an avenue to meet their internal small business purchase goals. A company’s size status under a contract is based on the North American Industry Classification System (“NAICS”) Code referenced in the subject contract’s solicitation. Depending on the NAICS Code referenced in a solicitation, GTSI may or may not qualify as a small business for new contract awards; further, new Federal Acquisition Regulations effective June 30, 2007 will require a small business contractor to recertify their size status prior to an extension for a contract with a term of longer than five years, and in other specific circumstances. GTSI will not be renewing its existing GSA Schedule Contract, and has not yet been awarded a new GSA Schedule Contract. Also, we anticipate that GTSI will not qualify as a small business under a new GSA Schedule 70 contract. Any potential future acquisitions, strategic investments or mergers may subject us to significant risks, any of which could harm our business. Our long-term strategy may include identifying and acquiring, investing in or merging with suitable candidates on acceptable terms. In particular, over time, we may acquire, make investments in, or merge with providers of product offerings that complement our business. Currently, our financing agreement prohibits any acquisitions without our lender’s prior consent. Acquisitions would involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: · diversion of management attention from running our existing business; · possible additional material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting; · increased expenses including legal, administrative and compensation expenses related to newly hired employees; · increased costs to integrate the technology, personnel, customer base and business practices of the acquired company with our own; · potential exposure to material liabilities not discovered in the due diligence process; · potential adverse effects on our reported operating results due to possible write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets associated with acquisitions; and · acquisition financing may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Any acquired business, technology, service or product could significantly under-perform relative to our expectations, and we may not achieve the benefits we expect from our acquisitions. For all these reasons, our pursuit of an acquisition, investment or merger could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. 16 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 