Item 1A. RISK FACTORS There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on the operating results of our businesses and our financial condition. The following risk factors should be considered, in addition to the other information included in the Form 10-K, when evaluating Tredegar and our businesses: General • Our performance is influenced by costs incurred by our operating companies including, for example, the cost of raw materials and energy. These costs include, without limitation, the cost of resin (the raw material on which Film Products primarily depends), aluminum (the raw material on which Aluminum Extrusions primarily depends), natural gas (the principal fuel necessary for Aluminum Extrusions’ plants to operate), electricity and diesel fuel. Resin, aluminum and natural gas prices are extremely volatile as shown in the charts on pages 34-35. We attempt to mitigate the effects of increased costs through price increases and contractual pass-through provisions, but there are no assurances that higher prices can effectively be passed through to our customers or that we will be able to offset fully or on a timely basis the effects of higher raw material and energy costs through price increases or pass-through arrangements. Further, there is no assurance that our cost control efforts will be sufficient to offset any additional future declines in revenue or increases in raw material, energy or other costs. • Tredegar and its customers operate in highly competitive markets. Tredegar and its businesses compete on product innovation, quality, price and service, and our businesses and its customers operate in highly competitive markets. Recent economic volatility has exacerbated our exposure to margin compression due to competitive forces, especially as certain products move into the later stages of their product life cycles. We attempt to mitigate the effects of this trend through cost saving measures and manufacturing efficiency initiatives, but there is no assurance that these efforts will be sufficient to offset the impact of margin compression as a result of competitive pressure. • Noncompliance with any of the covenants in our $300 million credit facility could result in all debt under the agreement outstanding at such time becoming due and limiting our borrowing capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. The credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility contains restrictions and financial covenants that could restrict our financial flexibility. While we had no outstanding borrowings on our $300 million credit facility at December 31, 2010, our failure to comply with these covenants in a future period when we have borrowings outstanding could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity if such borrowings are material. Renegotiation of the covenant(s) through an amendment to our revolving credit facility may effectively cure the noncompliance, but may have an effect on financial condition or liquidity depending upon how the covenant is negotiated. 4 Table of Contents • Loss of certain key officers or employees could adversely affect our businesses. We depend on our senior executive officers and other key personnel to run our businesses. The loss of any of these officers or other key personnel could have a materially adverse affect on our operations. Competition for qualified employees among companies that rely heavily on engineering and technology is intense, and the loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our businesses could hinder our ability to improve manufacturing operations, conduct research activities successfully and develop marketable products. • Tredegar is subject to increased credit risk that is inherent with economic uncertainty and efforts to increase market share as we attempt to broaden our customer base. In the event of the deterioration of operating cash flows or diminished borrowing capacity of our customers, the collection of trade receivable balances may be delayed or deemed unlikely. The operations of our customers for Aluminum Extrusions generally follow the cycles within the economy, resulting in greater credit risk from diminished operating cash flows and higher bankruptcy rates when the economy is deteriorating or in recession. In addition, Film Products’ credit risk exposure could increase as efforts to expand its business may lead to a broader, more diverse customer base. • Tredegar may not be able to successfully execute its acquisition strategy. New acquisitions can provide meaningful opportunities to grow our business and improve profitability. Acquired businesses may not achieve the levels of revenue, profit, productivity, or otherwise perform as we expect. Acquisitions involve special risks, including, without limitation, diversion of management’s time and attention from our existing businesses, the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies and potential difficulties in integrating acquired businesses and achieving anticipated operational improvements. While our strategy is to acquire businesses that will improve our competitiveness and profitability, we can give no assurance that acquisitions will be successful or accretive to earnings. • Tredegar is subject to various environmental laws and regulations and could become exposed to material liabilities and costs associated with such laws. We are subject to various environmental obligations and could become subject to additional obligations in the future. In the case of known potential liabilities, it is management’s judgment that the resolution of ongoing and/or pending environmental remediation obligations is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or liquidity. In any given period or periods, however, it is possible such obligations or matters could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations, or their application, including, but not limited to, those relating to global climate change, could subject us to significant additional capital expenditures and operating expenses. Moreover, future developments in federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations are difficult to predict. Environmental laws have become and are expected to continue to become increasingly strict. As a result, we will be subject to new environmental laws and regulations. However, any such changes are uncertain and, therefore, it is not possible for us to predict with certainty the amount of additional capital expenditures or operating expenses that could be necessary for compliance with respect to any such changes. • An inability to renegotiate one of our collective bargaining agreements could adversely affect our financial results. Some of our employees are represented by labor unions under various collective bargaining agreements with varying durations and expiration dates. Tredegar may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate collective bargaining agreements when they expire, which could result in strikes or work stoppages or higher labor costs. In addition, existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at our facilities in the future. Any such work stoppages (or potential work stoppages) could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products and adversely affect results of operations. • Our investments (primarily $7.5 million of investments in a privately-held specialty pharmaceutical company and a $6.4 million net investment in Harbinger) have high risk. The value of our investment in a specialty pharmaceutical company can fluctuate, primarily as a result of its ability to meet its developmental and commercialization milestones within an anticipated time frame. The specialty pharmaceutical company may require additional rounds of financing to have the opportunity to complete product development and bring its 5 Table of Contents technology to market, which may never occur. The estimated fair value of our investment was $16.0 million at December 31, 2010. There is no secondary market for selling our interests in the specialty pharmaceutical company. As a result, we may be required to bear the risk of our investment in the specialty pharmaceutical company for an indefinite period of time. Harbinger Capital Partners Special Situations Fund, L.P. (“Harbinger”) is a private investment fund and an investment in the fund involves risk and is subject to limitations on withdrawal. We are withdrawing from the fund, and we received the first installments of withdrawal proceeds in the third and fourth quarters of 2010. The timing and amount of future withdrawal proceeds are not known. Film Products • Film Products is highly dependent on sales associated with one customer, P&G. P&G comprised approximately 38% of Tredegar’s consolidated net sales from continuing operations in 2010, 40% in 2009 and 33% in 2008. The loss or significant reduction of sales associated with P&G would have a material adverse effect on our business. Other P&G-related factors that could adversely affect our business include, by way of example, (i) failure by P&G to achieve success or maintain share in markets in which P&G sells products containing our materials, (ii) operational decisions by P&G that result in component substitution, inventory reductions and similar changes, (iii) delays in P&G rolling out products utilizing new technologies developed by us and (iv) P&G rolling out products utilizing technologies developed by others that replace our business with P&G. While we have undertaken efforts to expand our customer base, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful, or that they will offset any delay or loss of sales and profits associated with P&G. • Growth of Film Products depends on our ability to develop and deliver new products at competitive prices. Personal care, surface protection and packaging products are now being made with a variety of new materials and the overall cycle for changing materials has accelerated. While we have substantial technical resources, there can be no assurance that our new products can be brought to market successfully, or if brought to market successfully, at the same level of profitability and market share of replaced films. A shift in customer preferences away from our technologies, our inability to develop and deliver new profitable products, or delayed acceptance of our new products in domestic or foreign markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the long term, growth will depend on our ability to provide innovative materials at a price that meets our customers’ needs. • Continued growth in Film Products’ sale of protective film products is not assured. A shift in our customers’ preference to new or different products or new technology that displaces flat panel displays that currently utilize our protective films could have a material adverse effect on our sales of protective films. Similarly, a decline in the rate of growth for flat panel displays could have a material adverse effect on protective film sales. • Our substantial international operations subject us to risks of doing business in countries outside the U.S., which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks inherent in international operations include the following, by way of example: changes in general economic conditions, potential difficulty enforcing agreements and intellectual property rights, staffing and managing widespread operations and the challenges of complying with a wide variety of laws and regulations, restrictions on international trade or investment, restrictions on the repatriation of income, fluctuations in exchange rates, imposition of additional taxes on our income generated outside the U.S., nationalization of private enterprises and unexpected adverse changes in international laws and regulatory requirements. • Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights or our infringement of the intellectual property rights of others could have a material adverse impact on Film Products. Film Products operates in a field where our significant customers and competitors have substantial intellectual property portfolios. The continued success of this business depends on our ability not only to protect our own technologies and trade secrets, but also to develop and sell new products that do not infringe upon existing patents or threaten existing customer relationships. An unfavorable outcome in any intellectual property litigation or similar proceeding could have a materially adverse effect on results of operations in Film Products. 6 Table of Contents • An unstable economic environment could have a disruptive impact on our supply chain. Certain raw materials used in manufacturing our products are available from a single supplier, and we may not be able to quickly or inexpensively re-source to another supplier. The risk of damage or disruption to our supply chain has been exacerbated as different suppliers have consolidated their product portfolios or experienced financial distress due to recent uncertainty in the economy. Failure to take adequate steps to effectively manage such events, which are intensified when a product is sourced from a single supplier or location, could adversely affect our business and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. • Failure of our customers to achieve success or maintain market share could adversely impact sales and operating margins. Our products serve as components for various consumer products sold worldwide. Our customers’ ability to successfully develop, manufacture and market their products is integral to our success. Aluminum Extrusions • Sales volume and profitability of Aluminum Extrusions is cyclical and highly dependent on economic conditions of end-use markets in the U.S., particularly in the construction sector. Our end-use markets can be subject to seasonal slowdowns. Because of the high degree of operating leverage inherent in our operations (generally constant fixed costs until full capacity utilization is achieved), the percentage drop in operating profits in a cyclical downturn will likely exceed the percentage drop in volume. Any benefits associated with cost reductions and productivity improvements may not be sufficient to offset the adverse effects on profitability from pricing and margin pressure and higher bad debts (including a greater chance of loss associated with defaults on fixed-price forward sales contracts with our customers) that usually accompany a downturn. In addition, higher energy costs can further reduce profits unless offset by price increases or cost reductions and productivity improvements. Currently, there is uncertainty surrounding the extent and timing of recovery in the building and construction sector. There can be no assurance as to the extent and timing of the recovery of sales volumes and profits for Aluminum Extrusions, especially since there can be a lag in the recovery of its end-use markets in comparison to the overall economic recovery. • The markets for our products are highly competitive with product quality, service, delivery performance and price being the principal competitive factors. Aluminum Extrusions has approximately 805 customers that are in a variety of end-use markets within the broad categories of building and construction, distribution, transportation, machinery and equipment, electrical and consumer durables. No single customer exceeds 5% of Aluminum Extrusions’ net sales. Due to the diverse customer mix across many end-use markets, we believe the industry generally tracks the real growth of the overall economy. Future success and prospects depend on our ability to retain existing customers and participate in overall industry cross-cycle growth. During improving economic conditions, excess industry capacity is absorbed and pricing pressure becomes less of a factor in many of our end-use markets. Conversely, during an economic slowdown, excess industry capacity often drives increased pricing pressure in many end-use markets as competitors protect their position with key customers. Because the business is susceptible to these changing economic conditions, Aluminum Extrusions targets complex, customized, service-intensive business with more challenging requirements in order to differentiate itself from competitors that focus on higher volume, standard extrusion applications. Imports into the U.S., primarily from China, represent a portion of the U.S. aluminum extrusion market. Imports from China have the potential of further exacerbating a very competitive market, thereby amplifying market share and pricing pressures. While the industry submitted a petition to the Department of Commerce in March 2010 alleging Chinese extrusions are being imported through unfair trade practices, the results of this initiative and the impact that this may have on the volume of imports is unknown at this time. 7 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 