Item 1A. RISK FACTORS There are a number of risks and uncertainties that can have a material effect on the operating results of our businesses and our financial condition. These risk factors include, but are not limited to, the following: General • Our future performance is influenced by costs incurred by our operating companies including, for example, the cost of energy and raw materials. These costs include, without limitation, the cost of resin (the raw material on which Film Products primarily depends), aluminum (the raw material on which Aluminum Extrusions primarily depends), natural gas (the principal fuel necessary for Aluminum Extrusions’ plants to operate), electricity and diesel fuel. Resin, aluminum and natural gas prices are extremely volatile as shown in the charts on pages 30-31. We attempt to mitigate the effects of increased costs through price increases and contractual pass-through provisions, but there are no assurances that higher prices can effectively be passed through to our customers or that we will be able to offset fully or on a timely basis the effects of higher raw material costs through price increases or pass-through arrangements. Further, there is no assurance that cost control efforts will be sufficient to offset any additional future declines in revenue or increases in energy, raw material or other costs. • Our substantial international operations subject us to risks of doing business in foreign countries, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks inherent in international operations include the following, by way of example: changes in general economic conditions, potential difficulty enforcing agreements and intellectual property rights, staffing and managing widespread operations, restrictions on foreign trade or investment, restrictions on the repatriation of income, fluctuations in exchange rates, imposition of additional taxes on our foreign income, nationalization of private enterprises and unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws and regulatory requirements. • Non-compliance with any of the covenants in our $300 million credit facility could result in all outstanding debt under the agreement becoming due, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. The credit agreement governing our credit facility contains restrictions and financial covenants that could restrict our financial flexibility. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. • Our investments (primarily $10 million investment in Harbinger and $7.5 million investment in a drug delivery company) have high risk. Harbinger Capital Partners Special Situations Fund, L.P. (“Harbinger”) is a fund that seeks to achieve superior absolute returns by participating primarily in medium to long-term investments involving distressed/high yield debt securities, special situation equities and private loans and notes. The fund is a highly speculative investment and subject to limitations on withdrawal. The drug delivery company may need several more rounds of financing to have the opportunity to complete product development and bring its technology to market, which may never occur. There is no secondary market for selling our interests in Harbinger or the drug delivery company. As a result, we will be required to bear the risk of our investments in Harbinger and the drug delivery company for an indefinite period of time. • Loss of certain key officers or employees could adversely affect our business. We depend on our senior executive officers and other key personnel to run our business. The loss of any of these officers or other key personnel could materially adversely affect our operations. Competition for qualified employees among companies that rely heavily on engineering and technology is intense, and the loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to improve manufacturing operations, conduct research activities successfully and develop marketable products. • Volatility and disruption of financial markets could affect access to credit. Our ability to invest in our businesses and make acquisitions with funds in excess of the net cash flow generated from ongoing operations requires access to capital markets. Over recent months, many banks and other financial institutions have had to 4 enter into forced or liquidation sales and/or announced multi-billion dollar write-downs related to their exposure to mortgage-backed securities, high leverage loans and other financial instruments. Further, there is uncertainty over the future of the global economy. This, along with other factors, has led to a tightening in the credit markets for certain borrowers. If we are unable to obtain capital at a reasonable cost, we may not be able to expand our operations and implement our growth strategies. Film Products • Film Products is highly dependent on sales associated with one customer, P&G. P&G comprised approximately 33% of our consolidated net sales from continuing operations in 2008, 29% in 2007 and 28% in 2006. The loss or significant reduction of sales associated with P&G would have a material adverse effect on our business. Other P&G-related factors that could adversely affect our business include, by way of example, (i) failure by P&G to achieve success or maintain share in markets in which P&G sells products containing our materials, (ii) operational decisions by P&G that result in component substitution, inventory reductions and similar changes, (iii) delays in P&G rolling out products utilizing new technologies developed by us and (iv) P&G rolling out products utilizing technologies developed by others that replaces our business with P&G. While we have undertaken efforts to expand our customer base, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful, or that they will offset any delay or loss of sales and profits associated with P&G. • Growth of Film Products depends on our ability to develop and deliver new products at competitive prices. Personal care, surface protection and packaging products are now being made with a variety of new materials and the overall cycle for changing materials has accelerated. While we have substantial technical resources, there can be no assurance that our new products can be brought to market successfully, or if brought to market successfully, at the same level of profitability and market share of replaced films. A shift in customer preferences away from our technologies, our inability to develop and deliver new profitable products, or delayed acceptance of our new products in domestic or foreign markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the long term, growth will depend on our ability to provide innovative materials at a cost that meets our customers’ needs. • Continued growth in Film Products’ sale of high value protective film products is not assured. A shift in our customers’ preference to new or different products could have a material adverse effect on our sale of protective films. Similarly, a decline in consumer demand for notebook computers or LCD monitors or a decline in the rate of growth in purchases of LCD televisions could have a material adverse effect on protective film sales. • Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights or our infringement of the intellectual property rights of others could have a significant adverse impact on Film Products. Film Products operates in a field where our significant customers and competitors have substantial intellectual property portfolios. The continued success of this business depends on our ability not only to protect our own technologies and trade secrets, but also to develop and sell new products that do not infringe upon existing patents or threaten existing customer relationships. An unfavorable outcome in any intellectual property litigation or similar proceeding could have a material adverse effect on Film Products. • As Film Products expands its personal care business, we have greater credit risk that is inherent in broadening our customer base. • Failure of our customers to achieve success or maintain market share could adversely impact sales and operating margins. Our products serve as components for various consumer products sold worldwide. Our customers’ ability to successfully develop, manufacture and market its products is integral to our success. Aluminum Extrusions • Sales volume and profitability of Aluminum Extrusions is cyclical and highly dependent on economic conditions of end-use markets in the United States, particularly in the construction, distribution and 5 transportation industries. Our market segments are also subject to seasonal slowdowns. Because of the high degree of operating leverage inherent in our operations (generally constant fixed costs until full capacity utilization is achieved), the percentage drop in operating profits in a cyclical downturn will likely exceed the percentage drop in volume. Any benefits associated with cost reductions and productivity improvements may not be sufficient to offset the adverse effects on profitability from pricing and margin pressure and higher bad debts (including a greater chance of loss associated with defaults on fixed-price forward sales contracts with our customers) that usually accompany a downturn. In addition, higher energy costs can further reduce profits unless offset by price increases or cost reductions and productivity improvements. • The markets for our products are highly competitive with product quality, service, delivery performance and price being the principal competitive factors. Aluminum Extrusions has approximately 850 customers associated with its continuing operations that are in a variety of end-use markets within the broad categories of building and construction, distribution, transportation, machinery and equipment, electrical and consumer durables. No single customer exceeds 5% of Aluminum Extrusions’ net sales. Due to the diverse customer mix across many end-use markets, we believe the industry generally tracks the real growth of the overall economy. During improving economic conditions, excess industry capacity is absorbed and pricing pressure becomes less of a factor in many of our end-use markets. Conversely, during an economic slowdown, excess industry capacity often drives increased pricing pressure in many end-use markets as competitors protect their position with key customers. Because the business is susceptible to these changing economic conditions, Aluminum Extrusions targets complex, customized, service-intensive business with more challenging requirements which is competitively more defensible compared to higher volume, standard extrusion applications. Foreign imports, primarily from China, represent a portion of the U.S. aluminum extrusion market. Foreign competition to date has been primarily large volume, standard extrusion profiles that impact some of our less strategic end-use markets. Market share erosion in other end-use markets remains possible. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain current margins and profitability. Our continued success and prospects depend on our ability to retain existing customers and participate in overall industry cross-cycle growth. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 