ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are many factors that affect our business and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of some important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements and from historical trends. Compliance with GTSI’s administrative agreement with the U.S. Small Business Administration (the “SBA Agreement”) and the outcome of the Federal Government investigations thereunder may have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s compliance with the SBA Agreement and the outcome of the continuing related Federal Government investigations of GTSI, which could result in administrative, civil and criminal penalties, may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and operating performance. For a further discussion regarding the SBA Agreement see Item 3 “Legal Proceedings.” Compliance with the SBA Agreement may result in the modification and termination of GTSI’s various small business contracts. As a result of the SBA Agreement, certain GTSI multiyear financing agreements were modified or terminated, which resulted in a $4.6 million write-off of net financing receivables. In addition, some other multiyear financing agreements were restructured to become due within the next 12 months, resulting in a $22.0 million decrease in accounts receivable and long-term receivables along with a corresponding $22.0 million decrease in accrued liabilities and other liabilities. The Company’s failure to generate additional sales or reduce operating costs to offset for lost sales due to the restrictions in the SBA Agreement and the costs of complying with the SBA Agreement may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. We may be adversely affected by increased governmental and regulatory scrutiny or negative publicity. Governmental scrutiny from regulators and law enforcement agencies with respect to our business practices, our past actions and other matters has increased materially in the past year. The current political and public sentiment regarding our involvement with small businesses has resulted in a significant amount of adverse press coverage. Press coverage and other public statements that assert some form of wrongdoing, regardless of any factual basis may result in investigation by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in lawsuits. Responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, is time consuming, expensive and may divert our senior management’s time and effort from our business. Adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny and legal and enforcement proceedings can also have a negative impact on our reputation and on the morale and performance of our Company. GTSI’s continuing disputes with EyakTek and its other members may have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. As discussed in Item 3 “Legal Proceedings,” EyakTek’s request for voluntary early graduation from the SBA’s Section 8 (a) BD Program was approved, effective May 10, 2010. EyakTek’s Operating Agreement provides that EyakTek shall dissolve and commence winding up and liquidating upon its graduation from the Section 8(a) BD Program, unless EyakTek’s members by an affirmative vote of at least 65% of the membership interests decide to continue EyakTek’s business operations. While GTSI has not voted its 37% EyakTek membership interests to continue EyakTek’s business operations, such operations have continued since EyakTek’s graduation from the Section 8(a) BD Program. In September 2010, GTSI filed a complaint in the Chancery Court of Delaware against EyakTek, certain EyakTek directors and officers (“Individual Defendants”) and EyakTek’s other members (“Member Defendants”) alleging that the defendants had breached EyakTek’s Operating Agreement by taking certain actions without GTSI’s approval that is required under the Operating Agreement, including actions leading to the making of an unsolicited offer to acquire GTSI and the continuation of the business operations of EyakTek after its graduation from the SBA’s 8(a) BD Program. 11 Table of Contents In September 2010, EyakTek and the other defendants filed an arbitration demand with the American Arbitration Association asserting that GTSI’s claims in the Delaware Chancery Court are subject to arbitration under EyekTek’s Operating Agreement. The arbitration demand also asserts that GTSI’s filing of the Delaware complaint violated EyakTek’s Operating Agreement and constituted a breach of fiduciary duty and the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing that GTSI allegedly owes to EyakTek as a member of EyakTek. The arbitration demand seeks declaratory relief, damages, and attorneys’ fees against GTSI. GTSI filed a motion in the Chancery Court to dismiss or stay the above-referenced arbitration. EyakTek, the Member Defendants and Individual Defendants filed a motion to dismiss or stay GTSI’s lawsuit. The Delaware Chancery Court heard the motions in November 2010 and subsequently, based primarily on its interpretation of the arbitration provisions of EyakTek’s Operating Agreement, determined that the arbitrator and not the court must decide whether the matter is to proceed in court or in arbitration. Thus, the court granted the defendants’ request to stay GTSI’s lawsuit. Thereafter, GTSI submitted to the above-referenced arbitrator claims against and request for relief from EyakTek, the Member Defendants and Individual Defendants similar to GTSI’s above-referenced claims and request for relief denied by the Delaware Chancery Court. In addition, GTSI requested the arbitrator to enforce the above-referenced provision of EyakTek’s Operating Agreement requiring the dissolution of EyakTek because of its graduation from Section 8(a) BD Program. While the outcome of these continuing disputes with EyakTek, the Member Defendants and Individual Defendants is currently unknown, such outcome may include a buyout of GTSI’s ownership in EyakTek, the dissolution of EyakTek, the continuation of EyakTek under its current Operating Agreement or under a modified Operating Agreement or some other alternative agreed upon by the various parties involved or ruled by the arbitrator. GTSI’s sale of its EyakTek interest or EyakTek’s dissolution would result in GTSI having no future equity income from EyakTek as reported in GTSI’s Consolidated Statements of Operations. In the past, including for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, EyakTek’s equity income has had a material positive impact on GTSI’s financial performance. We believe that GTSI’s continuing disputes with EyakTek, the Member Defendants and Individual Defendants may have a material adverse affect on our financial performance. We believe that EyakTek’s future financial performance may be adversely affected by recent developments including EyakTek’s graduation from the SBA’s Section 8(a) BD Program, the SBA suspension of EyakTek’s subsidiary EG Solutions, LLC from Federal Government contracting and possible increased Federal Government scrutiny regarding Alaska native corporations. Effective May 2010, EyakTek’s request for voluntary early graduation from the SBA’s Section 8(a) BD Program was approved. On November 18, 2010, EyakTek’s wholly owned subsidiary EG Solutions, LLC, received notice from the SBA that EGS was suspended from receiving any future Federal Government contracting. Government scrutiny from regulators and law enforcement agencies, along with media attention, has increased within the past year regarding Alaska native corporations. The Eyak Corporation, an Alaska native corporation, owns 51% of EyakTek. We believe that these recent developments may have an adverse affect in the future on EyakTek’s financial performance. We depend heavily on Federal Government contracts. A delay in the Federal budget process or a Federal Government shutdown may adversely affect our sales and gross margins, operating results and cash flows. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we derived approximately 96% of our sales from the Federal Government or from prime contractors under Federal Government contracts. We expect to continue to derive most of our sales from work performed under Federal Government contracts. Those contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though contract performance may extend over many years. The programs in which we participate must compete with other Federal Government programs and policies for consideration during the budget and appropriation process. Concerns about increased deficit spending, along with continued economic challenges, continue to place pressure on Federal customer budgets. While we believe that our programs are well aligned with national defense and other priorities, shifts in domestic spending and tax policy, changes in security, defense, and intelligence priorities, the affordability of our products and services, general economic conditions and developments, and other factors may affect a decision to fund or the level of funding for existing or proposed programs. 12 Table of Contents In years when the Federal Government does not complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year (September 30), Federal Government operations typically are funded through a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the Federal Government to continue to operate, but does not authorize new spending initiatives. When the Federal Government operates under a continuing resolution, delays can occur in the procurement of products and services. The Federal Government is currently operating under a continuing resolution that is effective through March 18, 2011, and its budget for 2011 has not been finalized. While this historically has not had a material effect on our business, if the Federal budget process results in a Federal Government shutdown, the continuing resolution be prolonged further or extended through the entire government fiscal year, it may have a material adverse affect on our financial performance. We rely on a small number of large transactions for significant portions of our sales and gross margins, and our operating results and cash flows may decline significantly if we fail to secure additional large transactions. We rely on the Federal Government to provide a substantial portion of our sales either directly or through prime contractors with which we work. We have derived, and believe that we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our sales from a limited number of projects and transactions with the Federal Government. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 96% of our sales came from the Federal Government or from prime contractors under Federal Government contracts. The completion or cancellation of a large project or a significant reduction in scope may significantly reduce our sales and gross margins. In addition, if we fail to secure an equal number of large transactions in the future, our results may be negatively impacted. Any dispute, failure to exercise an extension, or contract not renewed as a result of a re-compete may have a material adverse impact on our future operating results and gross margins. If the Company is unable to attract and retain key management and sales personnel, it might not be able to find suitable replacements on a timely basis, and the Company’s business may be disrupted. The Company’s success is largely dependent upon the continued service of a relatively small group of experienced and knowledgeable key executive, management and sales personnel. Since the Company entered into the SBA Agreement on October 19, 2010, the number of our employees has decreased from approximately 532 to 433 as of February 18, 2011. In addition, the Company believes that there is, and will continue to be, intense competition for qualified personnel in our industry, and there is no assurance that the Company will be able to attract or retain the personnel necessary for the management and development of its business. Turnover, particularly among senior management, can also create distractions as the Company searches for replacement personnel, which may result in significant recruiting, relocation, training and other costs, and can cause operational inefficiencies as replacement personnel become familiar with the Company’s business and operations. In addition, manpower in certain areas may be constrained, which may lead to disruptions over time. The loss or unavailability of one or more of the Company’s executive officers or the inability to attract or retain key management and sales employees currently or in the future may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. We continue to shift our business model from a reseller of products to a high-end solutions provider and this new model has certain risks, including increased competition, which may impact future results. We continue to evolve our business from one which resells commodity IT products to one which provides value-added solutions to our government customers. A number of risks are inherent in this strategy. We may not be able to maintain a workforce that has the technical skills to provide more complex technology to customers. Services and solutions require different internal accounting, tracking, and project management procedures, and there is no assurance we will be able implement and maintain those necessary procedures. We are now competing against organizations which have greater experience and past performance in selling solutions to government customers. Some of these competitors also have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, generate greater sales and have greater name recognition than we do. Additionally, our efforts spent on evolving to a high-end solutions business model may detract from operating results. 13 Table of Contents We believe our ability to continue to compete also depends in part on a number of competitive factors, including: • Expertise in government procurement processes where standardized contracts exist • Existing customer and vendor relationships (for which there is traditionally a high barrier to entry) • Technical expertise • Logistical capability • The ability of our clients or competitors to hire and retain project managers and other senior technical staff • The price at which others offer comparable technical solutions • The extent of our competitors’ responsiveness to client needs If we are unable to compete effectively we may experience operating losses and our market share may decline, adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. We also will need to continue to develop additional internal technical capabilities to identify, develop, market and sell more complex solutions, and there is no assurance we will be successful in these endeavors. Any issue that compromises our relationship with Federal Government agencies would cause serious harm to our business. Our sales are highly dependent on the Federal Government’s demand for IT products. Direct and indirect sales to numerous Federal Government agencies and departments accounted for 96%, 95% and 93% of our sales in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We believe that Federal Government contracts will continue to be a source of the majority of our sales for the foreseeable future. For this reason, any issue that compromises our relationship with Federal Government agencies would cause serious harm to our business. A material decline in overall sales to the Federal Government as a whole, or to certain key agencies thereof, may have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. Among the key factors in maintaining our relationships with Federal Government agencies are: • Our performance on individual contracts and delivery orders • The strength of our professional reputation • The relationships of our key executives with customer personnel • Our compliance with complex procurement laws and regulations related to the formation, administration and performance of Federal Government contracts To the extent that our performance does not meet customer expectations, or our reputation or relationships deteriorate, this would cause a negative effect on our sales, profitability and cash flow. Noncompliance with government procurement regulations or contract provisions may result in substantial monetary fines or damages, suspension or debarment from doing business with the Federal Government, and civil or criminal liability. Substantially, all of our government contracts are terminable at any time at the government’s convenience or upon default. If a government customer terminates one of our contracts for convenience, we may recover, at most, only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expense, and profit on work completed prior to the termination. Upon termination of a government contract for default, the government reserves the right to recover the excess costs of procuring the specified goods and services from a different contractor although GTSI would reserve the right to appeal. The effect of unexpected contract terminations would negatively impact our financial results. 14 Table of Contents Adverse changes in Federal Government fiscal spending may have a negative effect on our sales, gross margin, and cash flow. Changes in Federal Government spending policies or budget priorities may directly affect our financial performance. Among the factors that may materially harm our business are: • A significant decline in spending by the Federal Government in general or by specific departments or agencies in particular • Changes in the structure, composition and/or buying patterns of the Federal Government • The adoption of new laws or regulations changing procurement practices • Delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices These or other factors may cause Federal Government agencies and departments to reduce their purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts, or not to exercise options to renew contracts, any of which would cause us to lose future revenue. If we fail to comply with our Amended Credit Agreement, we may not be able to continue to operate our business. The affirmative, negative and financial covenants of our Amended Credit Agreement impose certain operating restrictions and financial and reporting covenants on us. These restrictions and conditions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. The financial covenants require us, among other things, to: • Maintain Tangible Net Worth not less than or equal to $45 million as of the end of each fiscal month • Maintain Ratio of Total Liabilities to Tangible Net Worth not greater than 5.25 to 1.00 as of the end of each fiscal month • Maintain Current Ratio not less than (i) 1.20 to 1.00 as of the last business day of the fiscal months of January, February, March, April, May, June, October, November and December and (ii) 1.15 to 1.00 as of the last business day of the fiscal months of July, August and September. • Maintain minimum Total Debt Service Coverage Ratio of 1.25 to 1.00 as of the end of each fiscal month The Company was in compliance with all financial covenants as set forth in the Amended Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2010. While the Company believes that we will remain in compliance with all of the financial and reporting covenants in the Amended Credit Agreement, there can be no assurance that we will continue to do so. A breach of any of the covenants or restrictions in the Amended Credit Agreement may result in an event of default under the Amended Credit Agreement. Such a default may result in our lenders discontinuing lending or declaring all outstanding borrowings, including our inventory financing, to be due and payable. If any of these events occur, we would need to find additional or alternative financing, if available, to refinance any such accelerated obligations. There can be no assurance that such financing would be available. Our business may be negatively affected by current global economic and credit conditions. Our Amended Credit Agreement is provided by a syndication of several financial institutions that share the committed financing under the Amended Credit Agreement. Economic and credit market conditions have presented banks and financial institutions with significant challenges, which has led a number of such entities to seek capital from the U.S. Federal Government. Although we monitor the ability of the financial institutions within the syndication to fulfill their counterparty responsibilities, future market conditions may affect the ability of one or more of these financial institutions to provide the financing that has been committed under the Amended Credit Agreement. The inability to access our Amended Credit Agreement could have a material, adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and liquidity. 15 Table of Contents Infrastructure failures may have a material adverse effect on our business. We are highly dependent on our infrastructure to process orders, track inventory, ship products in a timely manner, prepare invoices to our customers, recognize revenue and otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. In 2008, GTSI launched a large upgrade to the enterprise systems to gain advantage of features provided by the software vendor as well as utilize new architecture tools for supply chain fulfillment. As of December 31, 2010, GTSI continued to enjoy stabilized systems, but we cannot be assured that possible failures will not occur in the future. GTSI continues to plan for risk mitigation should a minor infrastructure disruption occur and as such will enforce operational continuity plans which are from time to time updated as needed. Any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may have a material adverse effect on our business and a negative impact on our stock price. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Any evaluation of the effectiveness of controls is subject to risks that those internal controls may become inadequate in future periods because of changes in business conditions, changes in accounting practice or policy, or that the degree of compliance with the revised policies or procedures deteriorates. Our ability to maintain effective internal controls over all processes depends on our continued success at hiring and preserving adequate resources for ensuring that the accounting for all areas of the business complies with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters may significantly affect our financial results. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, including but not limited to, revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, receivables, inventories, self-insurance, income taxes and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by our management. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by our management may significantly change our reported or expected financial performance. If we fail to align costs with our sales levels, net losses may result in future years. Our profitability is a function of our ability to generate sales, improve our efficiency, and control costs. We plan our operating expense levels based primarily on forecasted sales levels. These expenses and the impact of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short-term. A short fall in sales may lead to operating results being below expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce our fixed expenses in response to short term business changes. In addition any reductions in workforce may have significant risks, including decreases in employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees. If we are unable to control our costs or generate sales to cover the costs required to run our business, net losses may result in future years and our business may be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Our quarterly sales, operating results and cash flows are volatile, which makes our future financial results difficult to forecast. Our sales, operating results and cash flows have been, and are expected to continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors including: • The seasonality of our business due to the Federal Government’s buying and funding patterns • Fluctuations in our gross margins due to variations in the mix of products sold and excess or obsolete inventory charges • The number, size and scope of orders from our customers • Demand for our services generated by strategic partnerships and certain prime contractors • Availability of price protection, purchase discounts and rebate programs from vendors • Contractual terms and degree of completion of projects • Changes in our sales cycles as we move towards solution selling Our recent level of product gross margins may not be sustainable. In addition, changes in services gross margin may result from various factors such as changes in the mix between technical support services and advanced services, as well as the timing of service contract initiations and renewals. As a consequence, sales volumes and operating results for future periods are difficult to predict and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Because we sometimes work with third parties, any failure by these third parties to satisfactorily perform their obligations may hurt our reputation, operating results and competitiveness. We offer certain of our services to our customers through various third-party service providers engaged to perform these services on our behalf. In addition, we outsource parts of our operations to third-parties and may continue to explore opportunities to outsource others. In these engagements, we may engage subcontractors or we may act as subcontractor to the prime contractor of an engagement. If these third parties fail to maintain adequate levels of support, do not provide high quality services or cease or reduce operations, our business, operations, customer relations and sales may be negatively impacted and we may be required to pursue replacement third-party relationships, which we may not be able to obtain on as favorable terms or at all. In addition, the inability to negotiate terms of a contract with a third party, the refusal or inability of these third parties to permit continued use of their services by us, or the termination by the client or prime contractor of our services or the services of a key subcontractor would harm our operating results. Our dependence on certain strategic partners (vendors) makes us vulnerable to the extent we rely on them. We rely on a concentrated number of strategic partners for the majority of our hardware, software and related services needs. The terms of agreements with our vendors vary, but typically permit us to purchase products and services, that may be combined with integration and professional services for transactions with our government customers. Our vendor agreements are typically terminable by GTSI or the vendor on short notice, at will or immediately upon default by either party. If we can no longer obtain our hardware and software needs from our major suppliers due to mergers, acquisitions or consolidation within the marketplace, material changes in their partner programs, their refusal to continue to supply to us on reasonable terms or at all, and we cannot find suitable replacement suppliers, it may have a material adverse impact on our future operating results and gross margins. 17 Table of Contents Any potential future acquisitions, strategic investments or mergers may subject us to significant risks, any of which may harm our business. Our long-term strategy may include identifying and acquiring, investing in or merging with suitable candidates on acceptable terms. In particular, over time, we may acquire, make investments in, or merge with providers of product offerings that complement our business. Currently, our financing agreement prohibits any acquisitions without our lender’s prior consent. Acquisitions would involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: • Diversion of management attention from running our existing business • Possible additional material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting • Increased expenses including legal, administrative and compensation expenses related to newly hired employees • Increased costs to integrate the technology, personnel, customer base and business practices of the acquired company with our own • Potential exposure to material liabilities not discovered in the due diligence process • Potential adverse effects on our reported operating results due to possible write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets associated with acquisitions • Acquisition financing may not be available on reasonable terms or at all Any acquired business, technology, service or product may significantly under-perform relative to our expectations, and we may not achieve the benefits we expect from our acquisitions. For all these reasons, our pursuit of an acquisition, investment or merger may cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Any potential future new lines of business may subject us to significant risks, any of which may harm our business. Our long-term strategy may include new lines of business within the Federal and commercial business arena. Any new lines of business would involve a number of risks and may present financial, managerial and operational challenges. The results may significantly under-perform relative to our expectations, and we may not achieve the benefits we expect, which may have a material short term adverse impact on our future operating results and gross margins. The risks discussed above are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 