Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a discussion of certain significant risk factors that could potentially negatively impact our financial condition, performance and prospects. In addition to the other information contained in this report, the reader should carefully consider the following factors in evaluating the Company. Recent Market Events. (All dollars in thousands) Difficult conditions in the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations, and we do not know when these conditions may improve. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the economy generally. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than six months at unprecedented levels. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining U.S. real estate market have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and corporate and consumer spending. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and national recession. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on us because we are dependent upon corporate and consumer spending behavior. Our revenues are likely to decline in such circumstances. In addition, in the event of extreme and prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant loss of revenue. Factors such as corporate and consumer spending, business investment, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our products and training services could be adversely affected. Adverse changes in the economy could affect our results negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that actions of the U.S. government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve the intended effect. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to banks and other financial institutions, the federal government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking numerous actions to address these financial crises. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact of these government actions on the financial markets or on us. The failure of these programs to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. A prolonged economic downturn could reduce our customer base and demand for our products. We are in uncertain economic times, including uncertainty with respect to financial markets that have been volatile as a result of sub-prime mortgage related and other matters. Our success significantly depends upon the growth of demand of our products from a growing customer base of both companies and individual consumers. If prevailing economic conditions locally, nationally or internationally are unfavorable, our business may not succeed or may be significantly impacted. A prolonged economic downturn would likely cause a deterioration of the demand for our products and training services, which in turn would hurt our business. A prolonged economic downturn could, therefore, result in losses that could materially and adversely affect our business. Risks Related to our Business and Operations We may not be able to remain profitable in the future. We incurred significant losses in 2006. Although the Company was profitable in 2007 and 2008, future revenues and profits, if any, will depend upon various factors, including continued market acceptance of our products and services. Since 2002, we have experienced a significant decrease in revenues, primarily due to the sale and re-franchising of Company-owned training centers. In addition, we continue to incur significant fixed costs, including expenses for facility leases, sales and marketing, product development, and managerial and administrative personnel. Our business may not continue to improve and our revenues may not increase. From 2001 through 2006, we experienced recurring losses and we have an accumulated deficit of $45,543 through 2008. If we do not generate a sufficient amount of cash, which depends on many factors beyond our control, our liquidity and our ability to service our indebtedness and fund our operations would be harmed. We have substantial debt service obligations, working capital needs and contractual commitments. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, anticipated revenue growth may not be realized and future borrowings may not be available to us under credit facilities in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our existing indebtedness, fund our expansion efforts or fund our other liquidity needs. In addition, substantially all our assets are encumbered. We may need to raise additional capital. To fund the full scale implementation of our business plan, we may need to raise additional capital. Actual capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the success of our business results, the costs of maintaining and building our business and the market acceptance of our product and training offerings. Additional funds may not be available when needed, or, if available, such funds may not be obtainable on terms acceptable to us. 12 Table of Contents Fluctuations in our quarterly results may adversely affect the implementation of our business strategy. Our revenues and profitability may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including the size, timing, and product mix of orders and the training spending patterns of our customers. The timing of our revenues is difficult to forecast because our sales cycle is relatively long and our services are affected by the financial conditions and management decisions of our clients, as well as general economic conditions. We follow specific and detailed guidelines in determining the proper amount of revenue to be recorded; however, certain judgments such as the timing of the delivery of training to customers, affect our revenue recognition policy. Revenue results are difficult to predict, and any shortfall in revenue or delay in recognizing revenue could cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Competition in our industry is intense and could adversely affect our performance. Our industry is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving, and subject to technological change. Demand for particular courseware products, systems hardware, and services may be adversely affected by the increasing number of competitive products from which a prospective customer may choose. We compete primarily against other organizations offering educational and training software and services. Our competitors include several large companies with substantially greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than ours such as comprehensive curriculum software publishers, companies providing single-title retail products, Internet content and service providers, and computer hardware companies. Existing competitors may broaden their product lines and potential competitors may enter the market and/or increase their focus on e-learning, resulting in greater competition for us. Increased competition in our industry could result in price reductions, reduced operating margins, or loss of market share, which could seriously harm our business, cash flows, and operating results. Failure to retain our key executives or attract and retain qualified technical personnel could harm our business and operating results. The loss of one or more of our executive officers or other key personnel could inhibit the development of our business and, accordingly, harm our business and operating results. Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key managerial, technical, marketing, and sales personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, motivate, and retain highly qualified employees. Our key employees may terminate their employment with us at any time. There is competition within the industry for such employees and the process of locating key technical and management personnel with suitable skills may be difficult and expensive. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to technological changes and meet evolving industry standards. We may encounter difficulties responding to technological changes that could delay our introduction of products and services or other existing products and services. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change and obsolescence, frequent product introduction and evolving industry standards. Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to enhance our existing products, develop and introduce new products and training methods, satisfy an expanded range of customer needs, and achieve market acceptance. We may not have sufficient resources to make the necessary investments to develop and implement the technological advances required to maintain our competitive position. 13 Table of Contents Unless we maintain a strong brand identity, our business may not grow and our financial results may be adversely impacted. We believe that maintaining and enhancing the value of the New Horizons brand is critical to attracting customers. Our success in maintaining brand awareness will depend on our ability to continuously provide technology educational programs which students value. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in maintaining our brand equity. In addition, to attract and retain customers and to promote and maintain the New Horizons brand, we have spent and may need to continue spending significant resources on a brand-enhancement strategy, which includes promotional programs and efforts by our field sales team and marketing staffs. Incremental revenues from these activities may be insufficient to offset associated costs. Misuse or misappropriation of our proprietary rights could adversely affect our results of operations. Our success depends in part on our intellectual property rights to the products and services that we develop. We rely primarily on a combination of statutory and common law copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, customer licensing agreements, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and other methods to protect our proprietary rights. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us in the future. We may be required to modify our products, services or technologies or obtain a license to permit our continued use of those rights. We may not be able to do so in a timely manner or upon reasonable terms and conditions. Failure to do so could harm our business and operating results. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. We continued the implementation of several initiatives that have materially affected, in a positive manner, our internal control over financial reporting. Specifically, we improved our internal control over financial reporting by adhering to a financial closing timeline that permitted us adequate time to analyze our results at a departmental and segment level to ensure that our financial records captured all activity for the quarter and fiscal year-end. In addition, our senior management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, have reviewed our financial results in comparison to budget and prior year to determine the presence of inconsistencies and inaccuracies in financial reporting. Finally, we have completed SEC Form 10-Q and SEC Form 10-K checklists published by a leading publisher of business and corporate compliance literature to ensure our filings comply with rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC for interim and year-end reporting. These improvements notwithstanding, the Company's internal control systems may contain weaknesses and will continually require the commitment of managerial attention and financial resources. Legal proceedings may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or cash flows in future periods. From time to time, we become subject to various legal proceedings, the resolution of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or cash flows in future periods. The Company is susceptible to business and political risks from international operations that could result in reduced revenues or earnings. We market our services worldwide. We operate franchises in many countries outside the United States, located throughout North and South America, Europe, the Middle East and the Asia Pacific regions. We expect to continue franchise expansion in additional countries. Expansion of its existing international operations and entry into additional countries will require management attention and financial resources. In addition, there are certain risks inherent in conducting business internationally 14 Table of Contents including: exposure to currency fluctuations, longer payment cycles, greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection, difficulties in complying with foreign laws, unexpected changes in legal or regulatory requirements, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, political instability and potentially adverse tax consequences. To the extent that we do not manage our international operations successfully, our business could be adversely affected and its revenues and earnings could be reduced. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may be volatile and could decline. The market price for our common stock is volatile and may decline in the future for a variety of reasons, including: •quarterly variations in our operating results; •real or perceived lack of trading liquidity in the Company's stock; •an inability to attract coverage by security analysts or changes in earnings estimates by analysts; •announcements of new contracts or service offerings by us or our competitors; •disputes or other developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and litigation matters; •departures of key personnel; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments; and •general market conditions. In addition, the stock market and the OTC Bulletin Board in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of companies. These fluctuations may continue to occur and disproportionately impact the price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Our charter documents and Delaware law may discourage an acquisition of New Horizons that could deprive our shareholders of opportunities to sell their shares of our common stock at prices higher than prevailing market prices. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders. We have issued, and may hereafter issue, shares of preferred stock without shareholder approval and upon such terms as our board of directors have negotiated. Our issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding stock and potentially prevent the payment of a premium to shareholders in an acquisition. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws provide that special shareholders meetings may be called only by our board of directors. As such, any third-party takeover not supported by the board of directors could be subject to significant delays and difficulties. 15 Table of Contents There is only a limited market for our Common Stock as a "Penny Stock." A limited public market currently exists for our common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board. In the future, there can be no assurance that a more active public market for our common stock will ever develop or be sustained. Our common stock is also subject to the penny stock rules. The term "penny stock" generally refers to low-priced, speculative securities of very small companies. Before a broker-dealer can sell a penny stock, SEC rules require the broker-dealer to first approve the customer for the transaction and receive from the customer a written agreement for the transaction. The broker-dealer must furnish the customer with a document describing the risks of investing in penny stocks. The broker-dealer must tell the customer the current market quotation, if any, for the penny stock and the compensation the broker-dealer and its broker will receive for the trade. Finally, the broker-dealer must send monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. These requirements make penny stocks more difficult to trade. Since our common stock is subject to the penny stock rules, the market liquidity of our common stock may be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 