ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are many factors that affect our business and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of some important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements and from historical trends. We are uncertain of our ability to meet the covenants under our Credit Facility in future periods and we are uncertain of our ability to obtain alternative financing for our future capital needs. If we fail to be in compliance with any material provision or covenant of our Credit Facility or are unable to obtain alternative financing, we may not be able to continue to operate our business. In February 2006, we received a notice of default from our lenders of certain covenants under our Credit Facility. As of January 31, 2006 we defaulted on the following financial covenants under the Credit Facility: (i) maximum funded indebtedness to EBITDA, (ii) minimum EBIT to net sales, and (iii) minimum tangible net worth. Our lenders requested the execution of an agreement to temporarily forbear them from enforcing their rights and remedies as a result of the events of default. On April 3, 2006, we defaulted on a covenant under the Credit Agreement when we received a staff determination letter from The NASDAQ National Market stating that because we had not filed our Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2005 with the SEC, as required by Market Place Rule 4310(c)(14), GTSI’s common stock is subject to delisting from the NASDAQ National Market. We have requested a hearing with NASDAQ which should stay the delisting pending the determination of NASDAQ’s hearing panel. While there is no assurance, we expect to avoid delisting of our common stock from The NASDAQ National Market by the filing of this Form 10-K. A forbearance agreement (“Credit Agreement”), effective February 28, 2006, was executed between GTSI and our lenders on March 10, 2006. The covenants of our Credit Agreement impose certain operating restrictions and financial and reporting covenants on us. These restrictions and conditions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. These covenants require us, among other things, to: · Provide a variety of weekly, semi-monthly, and monthly financial reports addressing key aspects of GTSI’s operation including weekly cash flow projections, analyses of aged collections, inventory reports and daily borrowing base certificates; · Maintain a minimum tangible net worth of $50 million as of the last day of each month; · Maintain specified total liabilities to tangible net worth ratios; · Not exceed the maximum aggregate pre-tax losses on a monthly basis as specified in the Credit Agreement; and · Engage a restructuring advisor to, among other things, evaluate our financial plans and alternatives. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and unanticipated events could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants or alternative sources of financing or to reduce expenditures. We cannot assure you that such waivers, amendments or alternative financing could be obtained, or if obtained, would be on terms acceptable to us. A breach of any of the covenants or restrictions contained in our Credit Agreement could result in an event of default under that agreement. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with the covenants to which we are subject in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from our lenders or amend the covenants. Such a default could allow the lenders to discontinue lending or declare all borrowings outstanding to be due and payable. If any of these events occur, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient funds available to pay in full the total amount of obligations 12 that become due as a result of any such acceleration, or that we will be able to find additional or alternative financing to refinance any such accelerated obligations. We are currently in negotiations with several leading financial institutions seeking to secure long-term financing. On April 10, 2006 we signed a commitment letter to negotiate a new revolving credit facility with two major money center banks by May 31, 2006, the expiration date of the current Credit Facility. We cannot assure you that any such funds will be available to us on favorable terms or at all. If such funds are unavailable to us, we may not have enough cash to meet our operating needs. Infrastructure failures could have a material adverse affect on our business. We are highly dependent on our infrastructure to process orders, track inventory, ship products in a timely manner, prepare invoices to our customers, recognize revenue and otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. The implementation of GEMS resulted in problems which disrupted our business and adversely affected our sales and margins. In April of 2005, GTSI went live with a new supply chain management system based on software provided by Peoplesoft Corporation, the GTSI Enterprise Management System (“GEMS”). Management had planned extensively for this implementation, and had invested a considerable sum of money training associates from a variety of functional disciplines throughout the supply chain. For the first 90 days after go-live, we encountered many significant issues in every area of the supply chain. These issues resulted in significant productivity issues that we spent the rest of the year recovering from. Dozens of bug fixes and patches to the software were required. While the software was operating significantly better after the first 90 days, many core processes were not fully stabilized and were not as efficient as with the previous system. For the remainder of the year, a significant number of enhancements and additional reporting capabilities were added which enabled management to make better decisions based on the information available. As of December 31, 2005, core processes were stabilized with many active programs underway to continue to improve core processes during 2006. The ongoing use of GEMS involves numerous risks including: · difficulties in integrating the system with our current operations; · the build-up of excess and obsolete inventory from duplicate orders and higher than usual customer returns; · diversion of management’s attention away from normal daily operations of our business; · initial dependence on an unfamiliar system while training personnel in its use; · additional expenses and cash outlays for the maintenance and upkeep of the software; · difficulties in obtaining reports to accurately present our external financial results; · increased demand on our support operations; and · potential delay in the processing of customer orders for shipment of products. As a result of the above, our business, operating results and financial condition were adversely affected during 2005 and could continue to be impacted in future periods. We are exposed to inventory risks. We are exposed to inventory risks as a result of balancing the need to maintain appropriate inventory levels to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. We seek to minimize our inventory exposure through a 13 variety of inventory management procedures and policies, vendor price protection and product return programs. Additionally, more than one-half of our product sales are shipped directly from our vendors to our customers. However, as a result of difficulties in our implementation of GEMS and the related distraction of employees from managing sales returns and inventory levels, excess inventory began to accumulate in the second quarter of 2005. Management became aware of the magnitude of this issue during the fourth quarter of 2005, performed analyses and refocused our attention on effective inventory management. As a result, management determined that a reduction of $5.6 million was necessary to fairly state inventory at the lower of cost or market as a result of obsolete and excess inventory. In the future, if we determine that we have additional inventory exposure, we may have to reduce our prices or write-down additional inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins. We face certain risks as a result of changes in our management team, including our Chief Executive Officer, who resigned February 15, 2006. Our success depends in large part on the contributions of our management team. Over the past few years, we have experienced significant changes in our management team. For example, the following executives terminated their relationship with GTSI: our Senior Vice President of Sales in July 2005; our Senior Vice President, Program and Information Services in February 2005; our former President and Chief Operating Officer in May 2004; and our former Controller in May 2004. Although we do not believe that the departure of any one of these individuals had a significant negative impact on our business, we face operational challenges as a result of this turnover because some members of our management team are still learning about our company operations. If we do not succeed in solving the operational challenges we face in connection with the changes to our management team, we could suffer a significantly adverse impact on the development of our business. We have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could have a material adverse effect on our business and a negative impact on our stock price. In our preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, management identified three material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that existed as of December 31, 2005, which resulted in errors in our 2005 financial statements and required a restatement of our consolidated financial statements for the first three quarters of 2005. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, which results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. See Managements’ Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of these material weaknesses. Although we are currently in the process of implementing remediation measures to correct these material weaknesses, we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts or that the remediation measures will result in our having adequate internal control over financial reporting in the future. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will not in the future identify further deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to adequately remediate our material weaknesses and maintain an effective system of internal control, our ability to timely and accurately report financial results may continue to be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. Any failure to file periodic reports on a timely basis could have many consequences, including: potential delisting from NASDAQ, which would significantly impair the ability of our investors to buy and sell shares; lack of the timely disclosure to the market of our financial results; actions by the SEC against us for failure to comply with applicable Federal securities laws; our inability to use certain short form registration statements; and an event of default under the Credit Agreement with our lenders which would cancel our Credit Facility and cause all outstanding loan 14 obligations to become immediately due and payable. In addition, we may incur substantial costs in connection with these remediation measures and the implementation of such measures may distract management from its ordinary business functions. We will need to hire and successfully integrate additional qualified personnel in our accounting, finance, and operations functions to handle the increased complexity of our business related to the increase in professional services sales and increasingly sophisticated leasing transactions. If we encounter difficulties in attracting or retaining qualified accounting staff, we may not be able to remedy the identified material weakness in our financial close and reporting process. The current employment market for qualified individuals with accounting backgrounds is very competitive, and we may encounter difficulty in identifying, attracting or retaining such individuals. If we are unable to successfully fill our open positions and increase the technical accounting expertise of our accounting function, we may not be able to remedy the identified material weaknesses. NASDAQ has informed us that our common stock may be delisted, and any such delisting could materially impair the ability of investors to trade in our common stock and could have a material adverse effect on stock price. On April 3, 2006, we received a staff determination letter from The NASDAQ National Market stating that because GTSI has not filed its Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2005 with the SEC, as required by Market Place Rule 4310(c)(14), GTSI’s common stock is subject to delisting from the NASDAQ National Market. GTSI has requested a hearing with NASDAQ which should stay the delisting pending the determination of NASDAQ’s hearing panel. While there is no assurance, the Company expects to avoid delisting of its common stock from The NASDAQ National Market by the filing this Form 10-K for 2005 with the SEC before delisting would otherwise take effect. In addition, our remediation of certain material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting will require extensive time consuming manual processing, which may, in the future, delay completion of our quarterly unaudited consolidated financial statements. This may prevent us from timely filing our reports under the Exchange Act, including our Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending March 31, 2006, which would also be a violation of NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14), and would subject us to potential delisting in the future. If our common stock were to be delisted as a result of our failure to timely file a future quarterly report on Form 10-Q, the ability of our investors to buy and sell shares could be materially impaired which could negatively impact our stock price. The receipt of the staff determination letter from NASDAQ triggered a default under our Credit Agreement. If we fail to align costs with our sales levels, net losses will continue. Our profitability is a function of our ability to generate sales, improve our efficiency, and control costs. We plan our operating expense levels based primarily on forecasted sales levels. These expenses and the impact of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short-term. A short fall in sales could lead to operating results being below expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce our fixed expenses in response to short term business changes. In response to sales short falls during the year ended December 31, 2005, we announced reduction in workforce actions in October 2005 and February 2006 resulting in the elimination of over 100 employee positions. Significant risks associated with reductions in workforce include decreases in employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees. During the year ended December 31, 2005 we incurred significant costs due to excess and obsolete inventory, increasing sales returns, significant employee turnover, and the impairment of our deferred tax asset. In addition, costs increased in our accounting department, and are expected to continue in 2006, related to the restatement of prior quarterly results, increased audit fees due to material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting and the resulting prior period restatements, expansion of the 15 quantity and level of technical expertise of accounting personnel, and the on-going remediation of significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in internal control. If we are unable to control our costs or generate sales to cover the costs required to run our business and correct our material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, our net losses will continue and our business could be adversely affected. Our auditor’s report states that the operating losses and our potential inability to obtain a new revolving credit facility raise substantial doubt about GTSI’s ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has concluded that substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern and has included that conclusion in its audit report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Ernst & Young LLP’s conclusion is based on our net loss of $16.0 million and use of $42.0 million of cash in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2005 and the current status of our Credit Facility. Our lenders have notified us that our Credit Facility will terminate on the annual renewal date of May 31, 2006. As a result, we will need a replacement credit facility to meet our working capital needs for the remainder of 2006 and beyond. On April 10, 2006 we signed a commitment letter to negotiate a new revolving credit facility with two major money center banks by May 31, 2006, the expiration date of the current Credit Facility. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in obtaining any such financing on acceptable terms, if at all. The “going concern” opinion may cause concern to one or more of our constituencies of employees, stockholders, customers, vendors, or trade creditors. If any customer’s, vendor’s or trade creditor’s concern changes their business relations with us by stopping work, ceasing sales, requiring sales on cash terms or other changes, these changes may materially adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. We rely on a small number of large transactions for significant portions of our sales and gross margins, and our operating results and cash flows may decline significantly if we fail to secure additional large transactions. We rely on U.S. Federal Government agencies and departments to provide a substantial portion of our sales either directly or through prime contractors with which we work. We have derived, and believe that we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our sales from a limited number of projects and transactions with the U.S. Federal Government. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 3% of our largest customer purchase orders represented approximately 80% of our gross margins. The completion or cancellation of a large project or a significant reduction in scope would significantly reduce our gross margins. In addition, if we fail to secure an equal number of large transactions in the future, our results will be negatively impacted. We have four major contracts that are up for re-compete in 2006. As a result of our recent delivery issues due to the implementation of the final phase of GEMS, we are not certain that we will obtain the re-competed awards. During 2005, these contracts represented approximately 40% of our sales and 35% of our gross margins. Any dispute, failure to exercise an extension, or contract not renewed as a result of a re-compete could have a material adverse impact on our future operating results and gross margins. Our ability to shift our business model from a reseller of products to a high-end solutions provider has certain risks which may impact future results. Our goal is to evolve our business from one which resells commodity IT products to one which provides value-added solutions to our government customers. A number of risks are inherent in this strategy. We may not be able to successfully transform our workforce into one which has the technical skills to provide more complex technology to customers. Services and solutions require different internal accounting, tracking, and project management procedures, and there is no assurance we will be able to 16 develop and implement those necessary procedures. We will be competing against organizations which have greater experience and past performance in selling solutions to government customers. We will need to secure additional government contracts which provide for us to sell service-only solutions, and those contracts are highly competed. And we will need to develop certain internal technical capabilities to identify, develop, market and sell more complex solutions, and there is no assurance we will be successful in these endeavors. Compliance with changing regulations of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ National Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased selling, general and administrative expense and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of internal control over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of that assessment require the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. Further, our Board members, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified Board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If we are unable to attract and retain talented employees, it could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our success depends in large part on the continued services of our management and key employees. The loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, including finance and accounting staff, to replace personnel who leave. In addition to the low unemployment rate in the Washington, DC metropolitan area, competition for experienced management, finance professionals, and technical, sales and support personnel in the IT industry is substantial. During the year ended December 31, 2005, our annual voluntary turnover rate for total staff was approximately 30%. If we continue to experience the loss of a significant number of our employees in the future, it could adversely affect our operating results, including our ability to obtain and successfully complete customer engagements or effectively compete. To attract and retain employees, we may have to increase our compensation levels or incur higher recruiting costs in the future. This would adversely affect our financial performance. Our quarterly sales and cash flows are volatile, which makes our future financial results difficult to forecast. Our sales, operating results and cash flows have been, and are expected to continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors including: · The seasonality of our business due to the U.S. Federal Government’s buying and funding patterns; · Fluctuations in our gross margins due to variations in the mix of products sold and excess or obsolete inventory charges; 17 · The number, size and scope of orders from our customers; · Demand for our services generated by strategic partnerships and certain prime contractors; · Availability of price protection, purchase discounts and rebate programs from vendors; · Contractual terms and degree of completion of projects; · Changes in our sales cycles as we move towards solution selling; and · Changes in accounting rules, such as recording expenses for employee stock option grants and tax accounting principles. Our recent level of product gross margins may not be sustainable. In addition, changes in services gross margin may result from various factors such as changes in the mix between technical support services and advanced services, as well as the timing of service contract initiations and renewals. As a consequence, sales volumes and operating results for future periods are difficult to predict and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Because we sometimes work with third parties, any failure by these third parties to satisfactorily perform their obligations could hurt our reputation, operating results and competitiveness. We offer certain of our services to our customers through various third-party service providers engaged to perform these services on our behalf. In addition, we outsource parts of our operations to third-parties and may continue to explore opportunities to outsource others. In these engagements, we may engage subcontractors or we may act as subcontractor to the prime contractor of an engagement. In the event these third parties fail to maintain adequate levels of support, do not provide high quality services or cease or reduce operations, our business, operations, customer relations and sales may be negatively impacted and we may be required to pursue replacement third-party relationships, which we may not be able to obtain on as favorable terms or at all. In addition, the inability to negotiate terms of a contract with a third party, the refusal or inability of these third parties to permit continued use of their services by us, or the termination by the client or prime contractor of our services or the services of a key subcontractor would harm our operating results. Any issue that compromises our relationship with agencies of the U.S. Federal Government would cause serious harm to our business. Our sales are highly dependent on the government’s demand for IT products. Direct and indirect sales to numerous agencies and departments of the U.S. Federal Government accounted for 92%, 95% and 97% of our sales in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We believe that U.S. Federal Government contracts will continue to be a source of the majority of our sales for the foreseeable future. For this reason, any issue that compromises our relationship with agencies of the U.S. Federal Government would cause serious harm to our business. Although we do not believe that the loss of any single agency or department would have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations, a material decline in overall sales to the U.S. Federal Government as a whole, or to certain key agencies thereof, could have such an effect. Among the key factors in maintaining our relationships with U.S. Federal Government agencies are: · our performance on individual contracts and delivery orders; · the strength of our professional reputation; · the relationships of our key executives with customer personnel; and · our compliance with complex procurement laws and regulations related to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Federal Government contracts. 18 To the extent that our performance does not meet customer expectations, or our reputation or relationships deteriorate, this would cause a negative effect on our sales, profitability and cash flow. Noncompliance with government procurement regulations or contract provisions could result in substantial monetary fines or damages, suspension or debarment from doing business with the U.S. Federal Government, and civil or criminal liability. Substantially all of our government contracts are terminable at any time at the government’s convenience or upon default. If a government customer terminates one of our contracts for convenience, we may recover, at most, only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expense, and profit on work completed prior to the termination. Upon termination of a government contract for default, the government reserves the right to recover the excess costs of procuring the specified goods and services from a different contractor although GTSI would reserve the right to appeal. The effect of unexpected contract terminations would negatively impact our financial results. Our markets are highly competitive; if we do not compete effectively, we could face continued operating losses and loss of market share. The information technology markets are highly competitive and are served by numerous international, national and local firms. We may not be able to compete effectively in these markets. Market participants include traditional hardware and software resellers, systems integrators, commercial computer retail chains and distributors. Some of these competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, generate greater sales and have greater name recognition than we do. In addition, there are relatively low barriers to entry into the IT market, and we have faced, and expect to continue to face, additional competition from new entrants into the IT market. We believe our ability to compete also depends in part on a number of competitive factors, including: · Expertise in government procurement processes where standardized contracts exist; · Existing customer and vendor relationships (for which there is traditionally a high barrier to entry); · Technical expertise; · Logistical capability; · the ability of our clients or competitors to hire and retain project managers and other senior technical staff; · the price at which others offer comparable technical solutions; and · the extent of our competitors’ responsiveness to client needs. If we are unable to compete effectively we could experience continued operating losses and our market share may decline, adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. We may not qualify as a small business for new contract awards. GTSI maintains a “small business” status under its GSA Schedule contract, ITES contract and several BPAs it held in 2005 based upon its size status at the time of the contracts’ original award date. As a small business, GTSI enjoys a number of benefits, including being able to compete for small business orders, qualifying as a small business subcontractor, bidding pursuant to small purchase procedures directed to non-manufacturer small business, and offering government agencies an avenue to meet their internal small business purchase goals. A company’s size status under a contract is based on the North American Industry Classification System (“NAICS”) Code referenced in the subject contract’s solicitation. Dependent on the NAICS Code 19 referenced in a solicitation, GTSI may or may not qualify as a small business for new contract awards. Under a Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Deviation issued on October 10, 2002 by GSA, GTSI will be required to recertify its size status on its GSA Schedule Contract no later than 2007. At such time, GTSI may not qualify as a small business for new orders under the GSA Schedule. In addition, new legislation or regulations may require GTSI to recertify its size status on its GSA Schedule sooner than 2007. We cannot predict whether we would continue to qualify as a small business at the time of recertification. Adverse changes in U.S. Federal Government fiscal spending could have a negative effect on our sales, gross margin, and cash flow. Changes in U.S. Federal Government spending policies or budget priorities could directly affect our financial performance. Among the factors that could materially harm our business are: · a significant decline in spending by the U.S. Federal Government in general or by specific departments or agencies in particular; · changes in the structure, composition and/or buying patterns of the U.S. Federal Government; · the adoption of new laws or regulations changing procurement practices; or · delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices. The U.S. Federal Government’s overall information technology spending for the 2007 fiscal year was announced to be $64 billion. This represents an increase of 2.8% over fiscal year 2006, a significant reduction over the five to six percent increases received in recent years. These or other factors could cause U.S. Federal Government agencies and departments to reduce their purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts, or not to exercise options to renew contracts, any of which would cause us to lose future revenue. Any potential future acquisitions, strategic investments or mergers may subject us to significant risks, any of which could harm our business. Our long-term strategy may include identifying and acquiring, investing in or merging with suitable candidates on acceptable terms. In particular, over time, we may acquire, make investments in, or merge with providers of product offerings that complement our business. Acquisitions include a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: · diversion of management attention from running our existing business; · possible additional material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting; · increased expenses including legal, administrative and compensation expenses related to newly hired employees; · increased costs to integrate the technology, personnel, customer base and business practices of the acquired company with our own; · potential exposure to material liabilities not discovered in the due diligence process; · potential adverse effects on our reported operating results due to possible write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets associated with acquisitions; and · acquisition financing may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Any acquired business, technology, service or product could significantly under-perform relative to our expectations, and we may not achieve the benefits we expect from our acquisitions. For all these 20 reasons, our pursuit of an acquisition, investment or merger could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 