Item 1A. Risk Factors The following is a discussion of certain significant risk factors that could potentially negatively impact our financial condition, performance and prospects. In addition to the other information contained in this report, the reader should carefully consider the following factors in evaluating the Company. Risks Related to our Business and Operations Failure to raise additional capital to fund future operations could harm our business and results of operations. We may be unable to raise additional capital in the future to meet our liquidity needs and finance our operations and future growth. We do not believe our cash and cash equivalents and our cash flow will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements for the next twelve months. As a result, we need to raise additional capital or sell certain of our assets. The sale of additional equity would result in additional dilution to existing stockholders. Further, we may be unable to raise any such capital on acceptable terms, or at all. Failure to raise additional funds may adversely affect our ability to achieve its intended business objectives. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded assets or the amount or classification of liabilities or any other adjustments that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. We may not be able to achieve profitability in the future. We have incurred significant losses in 2004, 2005 and 2006 and we may be unable to achieve profitability in the future. Future revenues and profits, if any, will depend upon various factors, including continued market acceptance of our products and services. Since 2002, we have experienced a significant decrease in revenues. In addition, we continue to incur significant fixed costs, including expenses for facility leases, instructors, sales 10 and marketing, product development, and personnel. We cannot assure our shareholders that our business will not continue to decline or when or if performance will improve. We have experienced recurring losses, has an accumulated deficit and negative working capital. Essentially all of our assets are encumbered and we are not able to meet some short term obligations in a timely manner. These factors raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Fluctuations in our quarterly results may adversely affect the implementation of our business strategy. Our revenues and profitability may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including the size, timing, and product mix of orders and the training spending patterns of our customers. The timing of our revenues is difficult to forecast because our sales cycle is relatively long and our services are affected by the financial conditions and management decisions of our clients, as well as general economic conditions. We follow specific and detailed guidelines in determining the proper amount of revenue to be recorded; however, certain judgments such as the timing of the delivery of training to customers, affect our revenue recognition policy. Revenue results are difficult to predict, and any shortfall in revenue or delay in recognizing revenue could cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Competition in our industry is intense and could adversely affect our performance. Our industry is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving, and subject to technological change. Demand for particular courseware products, systems hardware, and services may be adversely affected by the increasing number of competitive products from which a prospective customer may choose. We compete primarily against other organizations offering educational and training software and services. Our competitors include several large companies with substantially greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than ours such as comprehensive curriculum software publishers, companies providing single-title retail products, Internet content and service providers, and computer hardware companies. Existing competitors may broaden their product lines and potential competitors may enter the market and/or increase their focus on e-learning, resulting in greater competition for us. Increased competition in our industry could result in price reductions, reduced operating margins, or loss of market share, which could seriously harm our business, cash flows, and operating results. Failure to retain our key executives or attract and retain qualified technical personnel could harm our business and operating results. The loss of one or more of our executive officers or other key personnel could inhibit the development of our business and, accordingly, harm our business and operating results. Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical, marketing, and sales personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, motivate, and retain highly qualified employees. Our key employees may terminate their employment with us at any time. There is competition within the industry for such employees and the process of locating key technical and management personnel with suitable skills may be difficult and expensive. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to technological changes and meet evolving industry standards. We may encounter difficulties responding to technological changes that could delay our introduction of products and services or other existing products and services. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change and obsolescence, frequent product introduction and evolving industry standards. Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to enhance our existing products, develop and introduce new products and training methods, satisfy an expanded range of customer needs, and achieve market acceptance. We may not have sufficient resources to make the necessary investments to develop and implement the technological advances required to maintain our competitive position. 11 Unless we maintain a strong brand identity, our business may not grow and our financial results may be adversely impacted. We believe that maintaining and enhancing the value of the New Horizons brand is critical to attracting customers. Our success in maintaining brand awareness will depend on our ability to continuously provide technology educational programs which students value. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in maintaining our brand equity. In addition, to attract and retain customers and to promote and maintain the New Horizons brand, we have spent and may need to continue spending significant resources on a brand-enhancement strategy, which includes promotional programs and efforts by our field sales team and marketing staffs. Incremental revenues from these activities may be insufficient to offset associated costs. Misuse or misappropriation of our proprietary rights could adversely affect our results of operations. Our success depends in part on our intellectual property rights to the products and services that we develop. We rely primarily on a combination of statutory and common law copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, customer licensing agreements, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and other methods to protect our proprietary rights. Although we believe our products and services have been independently developed and that none of our products or services infringes on the rights of others, third parties may assert infringement claims against us in the future. We may be required to modify our products, services or technologies or obtain a license to permit our continued use of those rights. We may not be able to do so in a timely manner or upon reasonable terms and conditions. Failure to do so could harm our business and operating results. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. We have identified significant weaknesses in our internal controls relating to company level controls, segregation of duties, revenue recognition processes, and period-end closing processes. As a result of the above mentioned significant weaknesses, there is a significant possibility that our current and future annual or internal financial statements could contain material misstatements. As a result, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors and others could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our common stock could drop significantly. The Company is susceptible to business and political risks from international operations that could result in reduced revenues or earnings. We market our services worldwide. We operate franchises in many countries outside the United States, which are located throughout North and South America, Europe, the Middle East and the Asia Pacific region. We expect to continue franchise expansion in additional countries. Expansion of its existing international operations and entry into additional countries will require management attention and financial resources. In addition, there are certain risks inherent in conducting business internationally including: exposure to currency fluctuations, longer payment cycles, greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection, difficulties in complying with foreign laws, unexpected changes in legal or regulatory requirements, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, political instability and potentially adverse tax consequences. To the extent that we do not manage our international operations successfully, our business could be adversely affected and its revenues and earnings could be reduced. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may be volatile and could decline. The market price for our common stock is volatile and may decline in the future for a variety of reasons, 12 including: · quarterly variations in our operating results; · real or perceived lack of trading liquidity in the Company’s stock; · an inability to attract coverage by security analysts or changes in earnings estimates by analysts; · announcements of new contracts or service offerings by us or our competitors; · disputes or other developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and litigation matters; · departures of key personnel; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments; and · general market conditions. In addition, the stock market and the Pink Sheets in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of companies in recent years. These fluctuations may continue to occur and disproportionately impact the price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Our charter documents and Delaware law may discourage an acquisition of New Horizons that could deprive our stockholders of opportunities to sell their shares of our common stock at prices higher than prevailing market prices. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. We have issued, and may hereafter issue, shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval and upon such terms as our board of directors have negotiated. Our issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding stock and potentially prevent the payment of a premium to stockholders in an acquisition. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws provide that special stockholders meetings may be called only by our board of directors. As such, any third-party takeover not supported by the board of directors could be subject to significant delays and difficulties. Further, our certificate of incorporation provides for staggered three-year terms for our directors and for special voting and other requirement for business combinations with parties owning 15% or more of our common stock. Such provisions also inhibit takeover efforts of third parties. The ability for investors to buy and sell our common stock is severely limited. Our common stock was delisted by the NASDAQ Global Stock Market on July 22, 2005 for failure to satisfy a continued listing rule or standard. As a result, the ability of investors to buy and sell our common stock is severely restricted. There is only a limited market for our Common Stock as a “Penny Stock.” A limited public market currently exists for our common stock on the Pink Sheets. In the future, there can be no assurance that a more active public market for our common stock will ever develop or be sustained. Our common stock is also subject to the penny stock rules. The term “penny stock” generally refers to low-priced, speculative securities of very small companies. Before a broker-dealer can sell a penny stock, Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) rules require the broker-dealer to first approve the customer for the transaction and receive from the customer a written agreement for the transaction. The broker-dealer must furnish the customer with a document describing the risks of investing in penny stocks. The broker-dealer must tell the customer the current market quotation, if any, for the penny stock and the compensation the broker-dealer and its broker will receive for the trade. Finally, the broker-dealer must send monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. These requirements make penny stocks more difficult to trade. 13 Since our Common Stock is subject to the penny stock rules, the market liquidity of our Common Stock may be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 