ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS If a company’s operating results are below the expectation of public market analysts or investors, then the market price of its common stock could decline. Many factors that can affect a company’s quarterly and annual results are difficult to control or predict. Factors which can affect the operating results of a semiconductor company such as PLX are described below. Risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described herein include the following: Our Operating Results May Fluctuate Significantly Due To Factors Which Are Not Within Our Control Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and are expected to fluctuate significantly in the future based on a number of factors, many of which are not under our control. Our operating expenses, which include product development costs and selling, general and administrative expenses, are relatively fixed in the short-term. If our revenues are lower than we expect because we sell fewer semiconductor devices, delay the release of new products or the announcement of new features, or for other reasons, we may not be able to quickly reduce our spending in response. Other circumstances that can affect our operating results include: · the timing of significant orders, order cancellations and reschedulings, · the loss of a significant customer(s), · the availability of production capacity at the fabrication facilities that manufacture our products, · our significant customers could lose market share that may affect our business, · integration of our product functionality into our customers’ products, · our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis, · introduction of products and technologies by our competitors, · unexpected issues that may arise with devices in production, · shifts in our product mix toward lower margin products, · changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors or suppliers, including decreases in unit average selling prices of our products, · the availability and cost of materials to our suppliers, · general economic conditions, and · political climate. These factors are difficult to forecast, and these or other factors could adversely affect our business. Any shortfall in our revenues would have a direct impact on our business. In addition, fluctuations in our quarterly results could adversely affect the market price of our common stock in a manner unrelated to our long-term operating performance. Our Potential Future Acquisitions May Not Be Successful Because Of Our Limited Experience With Acquisitions In The Past As part of our business strategy, we expect to review acquisition prospects that would complement our existing product offerings, improve market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. Future acquisitions could result in any or all of the following: · potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, · large acquisition-related write-offs, · the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, · difficulties in the assimilation of operations, personnel, technologies, products and the information systems of the acquired companies, · diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, · risks of entering geographic and business markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and · potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. We have had limited experience with acquisitions in the past and may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that may be acquired in the future. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. A Downturn In The Global Economy May Adversely Affect Our Revenues, Results Of Operations And Financial Condition Demand for semiconductor components is increasingly dependent upon the rate of growth in the global economy. If the rate of global economic growth slows, or contracts, customer demand for products could be adversely affected, which in turn could adversely affect revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Many factors could adversely affect regional or global economic growth. Some of the factors that could slow global economic growth include: rising interest rates in the United States, a slowdown in the rate of growth of the Chinese economy, a significant act of terrorism which disrupts global trade or consumer confidence, geopolitical tensions including war and civil unrest. Reduced levels of economic activity, or disruptions of international transportation, could adversely affect sales on either a global basis or in specific geographic regions. Because A Substantial Portion Of Our Net Sales Is Generated By A Small Number Of Large Customers, If Any Of These Customers Delays Or Reduces Its Orders, Our Net Revenues And Earnings Will Be Harmed Historically, a relatively small number of customers have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenues in any particular period. In 2005, sales to Metatech accounted for 23% of net revenues. In 2004, sales to Metatech accounted for 13% of our net revenues. In 2003, sales to Metatech and A2M, both distributors, accounted for 11% and 10%, respectively, of our net revenues. No other distributor or direct customer accounted for more than 10% of net revenues in any period presented. We have no long-term volume purchase commitments from any of our significant customers. We cannot be certain that our current customers will continue to place orders with us, that orders by existing customers will continue at the levels of previous periods or that we will be able to obtain orders from new customers. In addition, some of our customers supply products to end-market purchasers and any of these end-market purchasers could choose to reduce or eliminate orders for our customers' products. This would in turn lower our customers' orders for our products. We anticipate that sales of our products to a relatively small number of customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our net sales. Due to these factors, the following have in the past and may in the future reduce our net sales or earnings: · the reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers; · the selection of competing products or in-house design by one or more of our current customers; · the loss of one or more of our current customers; or · a failure of one or more of our current customers to pay our invoices. A Large Portion Of Our Revenues Is Derived From Sales To Third-Party Distributors Who May Terminate Their Relationships With Us At Any Time We depend on distributors to sell a significant portion of our products. Net revenues through distributors accounted for approximately 57%, 53%, and 56% of our net revenues in 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. Some of our distributors also market and sell competing products. Distributors may terminate their relationships with us at any time. Our future performance will depend in part on our ability to attract additional distributors that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously distributed our products. We may lose one or more of our current distributors or may not be able to recruit additional or replacement distributors. The loss of one or more of our major distributors could have a material adverse effect on our business, as we may not be successful in servicing our customers directly or through manufacturers’ representatives. Our Lengthy Sales Cycle Can Result In Uncertainty And Delays With Regard To Our Expected Revenues Our customers typically perform numerous tests and extensively evaluate our products before incorporating them into their systems. The time required for test, evaluation and design of our products into a customer’s equipment can range from six to twelve months or more. It can take an additional six to twelve months or more before a customer commences volume shipments of equipment that incorporates our products. Because of this lengthy sales cycle, we may experience a delay between the time when we increase expenses for research and development and sales and marketing efforts and the time when we generate higher revenues, if any, from these expenditures. In addition, the delays inherent in our lengthy sales cycle raise additional risks of customer decisions to cancel or change product plans. When we achieve a design win, there can be no assurance that the customer will ultimately ship products incorporating our products. Our business could be materially adversely affected if a significant customer curtails, reduces or delays orders during our sales cycle or chooses not to release products incorporating our products. Failure Of Our Products To Gain Market Acceptance Would Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition We believe that our growth prospects depend upon our ability to gain customer acceptance of our products and technology. Market acceptance of products depends upon numerous factors, including compatibility with other products, adoption of relevant interconnect standards, perceived advantages over competing products and the level of customer service available to support such products. There can be no assurance that growth in sales of new products will continue or that we will be successful in obtaining broad market acceptance of our products and technology. We expect to spend a significant amount of time and resources to develop new products and refine existing products. In light of the long product development cycles inherent in our industry, these expenditures will be made well in advance of the prospect of deriving revenues from the sale of any new products. Our ability to commercially introduce and successfully market any new products is subject to a wide variety of challenges during this development cycle, including start-up bugs, design defects and other matters that could delay introduction of these products to the marketplace. In addition, since our customers are not obligated by long-term contracts to purchase our products, our anticipated product orders may not materialize, or orders that do materialize may be cancelled. As a result, if we do not achieve market acceptance of new products, we may not be able to realize sufficient sales of our products in order to recoup research and development expenditures. The failure of any of our new products to achieve market acceptance would harm our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. We Must Make Significant Research And Development Expenditures Prior To Generating Revenues From Products To establish market acceptance of a new semiconductor device, we must dedicate significant resources to research and development, production and sales and marketing. We incur substantial costs in developing, manufacturing and selling a new product, which often significantly precede meaningful revenues from the sale of this product. Consequently, new products can require significant time and investment to achieve profitability. Investors should note that our efforts to introduce new semiconductor devices or other products or services may not be successful or profitable. In addition, products or technologies developed by others may render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We record as expenses the costs related to the development of new semiconductor devices and other products as these expenses are incurred. As a result, our profitability from quarter to quarter and from year to year may be adversely affected by the number and timing of our new product launches in any period and the level of acceptance gained by these products. Our Independent Manufacturers May Not Be Able To Meet Our Manufacturing Requirements We do not manufacture any of our semiconductor devices. Therefore, we are referred to in the semiconductor industry as a “fabless” producer of semiconductors. Consequently, we depend upon third party manufacturers to produce semiconductors that meet our specifications. We currently have third party manufacturers located in Japan, Taiwan and Malaysia, that can produce semiconductors which meet our needs. However, as the semiconductor industry continues to progress towards smaller manufacturing and design geometries, the complexities of producing semiconductors will increase. Decreasing geometries may introduce new problems and delays that may affect product development and deliveries. Due to the nature of the semiconductor industry and our status as a “fabless” semiconductor company, we could encounter fabrication-related problems that may affect the availability of our semiconductor devices, delay our shipments or may increase our costs. None of our semiconductor devices are currently manufactured by more than one supplier. We place our orders on a purchase order basis and do not have a long term purchase agreement with any of our existing suppliers. In the event that the supplier of a semiconductor device was unable or unwilling to continue to manufacture this product in the required volume, we would have to identify and qualify a substitute supplier. Introducing new products or transferring existing products to a new third party manufacturer or process may result in unforeseen device specification and operating problems. These problems may affect product shipments and may be costly to correct. Silicon fabrication capacity may also change, or the costs per silicon wafer may increase. Manufacturing-related problems may have a material adverse effect on our business. Intense Competition In The Markets In Which We Operate May Reduce The Demand For Or Prices Of Our Products Competition in the semiconductor industry is intense. If our main target market, the microprocessor-based systems market, continues to grow, the number of competitors may increase significantly. In addition, new semiconductor technology may lead to new products that can perform similar functions as our products. Some of our competitors and other semiconductor companies may develop and introduce products that integrate into a single semiconductor device the functions performed by our semiconductor devices. This would eliminate the need for our products in some applications. In addition, competition in our markets comes from companies of various sizes, many of which are significantly larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do and thus can better withstand adverse economic or market conditions. Also, we compete with established microprocessor-based companies and others. Many of these indirect competitors and microprocessor-based companies have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than PLX. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors, and increased competition may adversely affect our business. See “Business -- Competition,” and “ -- Products” in Part I of Item I of this Form 10-K. Failure To Have Our Products Designed Into The Products Of Electronic Equipment Manufacturers Will Result In Reduced Sales Our future success depends on electronic equipment manufacturers that design our semiconductor devices into their systems. We must anticipate market trends and the price, performance and functionality requirements of current and potential future electronic equipment manufacturers and must successfully develop and manufacture products that meet these requirements. In addition, we must meet the timing requirements of these electronic equipment manufacturers and must make products available to them in sufficient quantities. These electronic equipment manufacturers could develop products that provide the same or similar functionality as one or more of our products and render these products obsolete in their applications. We do not have purchase agreements with our customers that contain minimum purchase requirements. Instead, electronic equipment manufacturers purchase our products pursuant to short-term purchase orders that may be canceled without charge. We believe that in order to obtain broad penetration in the markets for our products, we must maintain and cultivate relationships, directly or through our distributors, with electronic equipment manufacturers that are leaders in the microprocessor-based systems markets. Accordingly, we will incur significant expenditures in order to build relationships with electronic equipment manufacturers prior to volume sales of new products. If we fail to develop relationships with additional electronic equipment manufacturers to have our products designed into new microprocessor-based systems or to develop sufficient new products to replace products that have become obsolete, our business would be materially adversely affected. Lower Demand For Our Customers’ Products Will Result In Lower Demand For Our Products Demand for our products depends in large part on the development and expansion of the high-performance microprocessor-based systems markets including networking and telecommunications, enterprise storage, imaging and industrial applications. The size and rate of growth of these microprocessor-based systems markets may in the future fluctuate significantly based on numerous factors. These factors include the adoption of alternative technologies, capital spending levels and general economic conditions. Demand for products that incorporate high-performance embedded systems may not grow. Defects In Our Products Could Increase Our Costs And Delay Our Product Shipments Our products are complex. While we test our products, these products may still have errors, defects or bugs that we find only after commercial production has begun. We have experienced errors, defects and bugs in the past in connection with new products. Our customers may not purchase our products if the products have reliability, quality or compatibility problems. This delay in acceptance could make it more difficult to retain our existing customers and to attract new customers. Moreover, product errors, defects or bugs could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts, claims by our customers or others against us, or the loss of credibility with our current and prospective customers. In the past, the additional time required to correct defects has caused delays in product shipments and resulted in lower revenues. We may have to spend significant amounts of capital and resources to address and fix problems in new products. We must continuously develop our products using new process technology with smaller geometries to remain competitive on a cost and performance basis. Migrating to new technologies is a challenging task requiring new design skills, methods and tools and is difficult to achieve. We Could Lose Key Personnel Due To Competitive Market Conditions And Attrition Our success depends to a significant extent upon our senior management and key technical and sales personnel. The loss of one or more of these employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not have employment contracts with any of our executive officers. Our success also depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, sales and marketing, customer support, financial and accounting, and managerial personnel. Competition for such personnel in the semiconductor industry is intense, and we may not be able to retain our key personnel or to attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. In addition, we may lose key personnel due to attrition, including health, family and other reasons. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining candidates with appropriate qualifications. If we do not succeed in hiring and retaining candidates with appropriate qualifications, our business could be materially adversely affected. The Demand For Our Products Depends Upon Our Ability To Support Evolving Industry Standards A majority of our revenues are derived from sales of products, which rely on the PCI, PCI-X, USB, and PCI Express standards. If markets move away from these standards and begin using new standards, we may not be able to successfully design and manufacture new products that use these new standards. There is also the risk that new products we develop in response to new standards may not be accepted in the market. In addition, these standards are continuously evolving, and we may not be able to modify our products to address new specifications. Any of these events would have a material adverse effect on our business. The Successful Marketing And Sales Of Our Products Depend Upon Our Third Party Relationships, Which Are Not Supported By Written Agreements When marketing and selling our semiconductor devices, we believe we enjoy a competitive advantage based on the availability of development tools offered by third parties. These development tools are used principally for the design of other parts of the microprocessor-based system but also work with our products. We will lose this advantage if these third party tool vendors cease to provide these tools for existing products or do not offer them for our future products. This event could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have no written agreements with these third parties, and these parties could choose to stop providing these tools at any time. Our Limited Ability To Protect Our Intellectual Property And Proprietary Rights Could Adversely Affect Our Competitive Position Our future success and competitive position depend upon our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary technology used in our principal products. Currently, we have limited protection of our intellectual property in the form of patents and rely instead on trade secret protection. Our existing or future patents may be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or licensed to others. The rights granted thereunder may not provide competitive advantages to us. In addition, our future patent applications may not be issued with the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. Furthermore, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate our technology or design around the patents owned or licensed by us. In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries where we may need protection. We cannot be sure that steps taken by us to protect our technology will prevent misappropriation of the technology. We may from time to time receive notifications of claims that we may be infringing patents or other intellectual property rights owned by third parties. While there is currently no intellectual property litigation pending against us, litigation could result in significant expenses to us and adversely affect sales of the challenged product or technology. This litigation could also divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not the litigation is determined in our favor. In addition, we may not be able to develop or acquire non-infringing technology or procure licenses to the infringing technology under reasonable terms. This could require expenditures by us of substantial time and other resources. Any of these developments would have a material adverse effect on our business. The Cyclical Nature Of The Semiconductor Industry May Lead To Significant Variances In The Demand For Our Products In the past, the semiconductor industry has been characterized by significant downturns and wide fluctuations in supply and demand. Also, the industry has experienced significant fluctuations in anticipation of changes in general economic conditions. This cyclicality has led to significant variances in product demand and production capacity. It has also accelerated erosion of average selling prices per unit. We may experience periodic fluctuations in our future financial results because of industry-wide conditions. Because We Sell Our Products To Customers Outside Of North America And Because Our Products Are Incorporated With Products Of Others That Are Sold Outside Of North America We Face Foreign Business, Political And Economic Risks Sales outside of North America accounted for 68%, 68%, and 63% of our net revenues in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Sales outside of North America may fluctuate in future periods and are expected to account for a large portion of our revenues. In addition, equipment manufacturers who incorporate our products into their products sell their products outside of North America, thereby exposing us indirectly to foreign risks. Further, most of our semiconductor products are manufactured outside of North America. Accordingly, we are subject to international risks, including: · difficulties in managing distributors, · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary and branch operations, · political and economic instability, · foreign currency exchange fluctuations, · difficulties in accounts receivable collections, · potentially adverse tax consequences, · timing and availability of export licenses, · changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers, · difficulties in obtaining governmental approvals for telecommunications and other products, and · the burden of complying with complex foreign laws and treaties. Because sales of our products have been denominated to date exclusively in United States dollars, increases in the value of the United States dollar will increase the price of our products so that they become relatively more expensive to customers in the local currency of a particular country, which could lead to a reduction in sales and profitability in that country. Our Principal Stockholders Have Significant Voting Power And May Take Actions That May Not Be In The Best Interests Of Our Other Stockholders Our executive officers, directors and other principal stockholders, in the aggregate, beneficially own a substantial amount of our outstanding common stock. Although these stockholders do not have majority control, they currently have, and likely will continue to have, significant influence with respect to the election of our directors and approval or disapproval of our significant corporate actions. This influence over our affairs might be adverse to the interests of other stockholders. In addition, the voting power of these stockholders could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of PLX. The Anti-Takeover Provisions In Our Certificate of Incorporation Could Adversely Affect The Rights Of The Holders Of Our Common Stock Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our Certificate of Incorporation may make a change in control of PLX more difficult, even if a change in control would be beneficial to the stockholders. These provisions may allow the Board of Directors to prevent changes in the management and control of PLX. As part of our anti-takeover devices, our Board of Directors has the ability to determine the terms of preferred stock and issue preferred stock without the approval of the holders of the common stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation allows the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. There are no shares of preferred stock outstanding. However, because the rights and preferences of any series of preferred stock may be set by the Board of Directors in its sole discretion without approval of the holders of the common stock, the rights and preferences of this preferred stock may be superior to those of the common stock. Accordingly, the rights of the holders of common stock may be adversely affected. Consistent with Delaware law, our Board of Directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 