Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties we describe below and all of the other information in this report. The risks and uncertainties we describe below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are currently unaware or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business.Risks Relating to Our BusinessOur business is cyclical and is affected by global economic conditions, particularly those affecting steel-related construction and fabrication activities, as well as other factors that are outside of our control, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.The success of our business is directly affected by general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. The end users of our products are engaged in commercial construction, oil and gas industry related construction and maintenance, general manufacturing and steel shipbuilding. The demand for our products, and therefore the results of our operations, are related to the level of production in these end-user industries. Specifically, our sales volumes are closely tied to the levels of steel related construction and fabrication activities. Steel production and shipments declined precipitously in late 2008 and into early 2009. In the fourth quarter of 2008, global economic conditions, particularly in the United States, began to deteriorate and severely deteriorated throughout much of 2009. In the United States, steel production declined 36.3% during 2009 from 2008 levels according to the World Steel Association, and global steel production excluding China declined 20.5%. Our net sales were adversely impacted by such conditions. Our business has been and continues to be adversely impacted by such conditions. According to the World Steel Association, world steel production grew 1.4% in 2012 as compared to 2011, 6.8% in 2011 compared to 2010, and 15.7% in 2010 compared to 2009, and demand for our products has varied during these periods. The duration and extent of any reduced demand, along with further potential declines in demand for our products, is uncertain. We believe the volatility in these global economic factors could have further adverse impacts on our operating results and financial condition.Europe has continued to experience economic difficulties and economic conditions continue to be negatively affected by the European sovereign debt crisis. If economic or credit market conditions worsen, the global economic recovery slows further, the economic downturn in Europe expands beyond Europe or we are unable to successfully anticipate and respond to changing economic and credit market conditions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.Our future operating results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the prices and availability of raw materials.We purchase a large amount of commodity raw materials, particularly copper, brass and steel. At times, pricing and supply can be volatile due to a number of factors beyond our control, including global demand, general economic and political conditions, mine closures and labor unrest in various countries, activities in the financial commodity markets, labor costs, competition, import duties and tariffs and currency exchange rates. This volatility can significantly affect our raw material costs. An environment of volatile raw material prices, competitive conditions and declining economic conditions can adversely affect our profitability if we fail to, or are unable to, adjust our sales prices appropriately to recover the change in the costs of materials.The timing of and the extent to which we will realize changes in material costs and the impact on our profits are uncertain. We typically enter into fixed-price purchase commitments with respect to a portion of our material purchases for purchase volumes of three to six months. To the extent that our arrangements to lock in supplier costs do not adequately keep in check cost increases and we are unable to pass on any price increases to our customers, our profitability could be adversely affected. Certain of the raw materials used in our hardfacing alloy products, such as cobalt and chromium, are available primarily from sources outside the United States. Restrictions in the supply of cobalt, chromium and other raw materials could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, certain of our customers rely heavily on raw materials, and fluctuations in prices of raw materials for these customers could negatively affect their operations and orders for our products and, as a result, our financial performance. Dramatic declines in global economic conditions may also create hardships for our suppliers and potentially disrupt their supply of raw materials to us. We may not be able to implement our cost-reduction initiatives on the anticipated timetable or successfully, which may adversely affect us.We have undertaken and will continue to undertake cost-reduction initiatives in response to global competitive conditions. These include our ongoing continuous improvement initiatives, redesigning products and manufacturing processes, re-evaluating the location of certain manufacturing operations and the sourcing of vendor purchased components. There can be no assurance that these initiatives will provide the anticipated cost savings from such activities or that we will realize such cost savings on the 9anticipated timetable. The failure of our cost-reduction efforts to yield sufficient cost reductions or delay in realization may have an adverse effect on our business.Our international sales and operations face special risks.Approximately 45% of our consolidated net sales for 2012 were derived from outside of the United States. We have international operations located in Australia, Canada, China, England, Italy, Malaysia and Mexico. International sales and operations are subject to a number of special risks, including:•currency exchange rate fluctuations;•differing protections of intellectual property;•trade barriers;•regional economic uncertainty;•labor unrest;•governmental currency exchange controls;•differing (and possibly more stringent) labor regulation;•governmental expropriation;•domestic and foreign customs, tariffs and taxes;•current and changing regulatory environments;•difficulty in obtaining distribution support;•difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations;•terrorist activities and the U.S. and international response thereto;•restrictions on the transfer of funds into or out of a country;•export duties and quotas;•differences in the availability and terms of financing;•violations by non-US contractors of labor and wage standards and resulting adverse publicity;•violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, economic sanctions regimes (including those administered by the Office of Foreign Asset Control of the Department of the U.S. Treasury) and other international laws and regulations; and•political instability and unrest.Our products are used in metal fabrication operations to cut and join metal parts. Certain metal fabrication operations, as well as manufacturing operations generally, are moving from the United States to international locations where labor costs are lower. Selling products into international markets and maintaining and expanding international operations require significant coordination, capital and resources. If we fail to adequately address these developments, we may be unable to grow or maintain our sales and profitability. Also, in some foreign jurisdictions, we may be subject to laws that limit the right and ability of entities organized or operating in those jurisdictions to pay dividends or remit earnings to affiliated companies unless specified conditions are met. These factors may adversely affect our financial condition. In 2010, we initiated a comprehensive review of our compliance with foreign and U.S. duties requirements. While the ultimate resolution of the compliance review did not have a material effect on our business or financial condition, we cannot assure that future assessments will not adversely affect our business or financial condition.We are subject to currency fluctuations and face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations.We sell our products to distributors located in over 50 countries. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, approximately 45%, 45% and 46%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales were derived from markets outside the United States. Strengthening of the U.S. dollar exchange rate against other currencies increases the cost of our products to foreign purchasers and may adversely affect our sales.For our operations conducted in foreign countries, transactions are typically denominated in various foreign currencies. The costs of our operations in these foreign locations are also denominated in those local currencies. Because our financial statements are stated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our reported financial results. In addition, some sale transactions pose foreign currency exchange settlement risks. For 2012 and 2011, the Australian dollar represented approximately 19% and 20%, respectively, of our total net sales and approximately 43% and 45%, respectively, of our international net sales. Our Australian operations typically maintain 60 to 90 day forward purchase commitments for U.S. dollars to reduce the risk of an adverse currency exchange movement in connection with U.S. denominated materials purchases. Currency fluctuations have affected our reported financial performance in the past and will affect our reported financial performance in the future.10We also face risks arising from the imposition of currency exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or operations located or doing business in a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. Actions of this nature, if they occur or continue for significant periods of time, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition.Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards could be limited in the future.As of December 31, 2012, we had U.S. net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $113.4 million from the years 2001 through 2010 available to offset future federal taxable income. Similarly, we had net operating loss carryforwards to offset state taxable income in varying amounts. Our federal net operating loss carryforwards will expire between the years 2020 and 2030. As a result of changes in our stock ownership in 2010, we estimate that the use of our federal net operating loss carryforwards will be limited to $17.7 million per year with unused limitation amounts available for use in subsequent years. In addition, this limitation is increased by any gains realized that were inherent on assets owned at the time of the Merger and related transactions. However, future change of control transactions or other transactions could further limit our use of net operating loss carryforwards. There is also no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) or other taxing authorities will not challenge our determination of net operating loss carryforwards and limit them. Limitations on our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income could reduce the benefit of our net operating loss carryforwards by requiring us to pay federal and state income taxes earlier than we otherwise would be required, and causing part of our net operating loss carryforwards to expire without our having fully utilized them. An ownership change could also limit our use of other credits, such as foreign tax credits, in future years. These various limitations resulting from an ownership change could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. We cannot predict the extent to which our net operating loss carryforwards will be limited or the ultimate impact of other limitations that may be caused by an ownership change, which will depend on various factors.Fluctuations in labor costs may adversely affect our business and our profitabilityLabor costs can be volatile due to a number of factors beyond our control, including inflation, general economic and political conditions and labor unrest in various countries. This volatility can significantly affect our labor costs. Continuing increases in inflation and material increases in the cost of labor would diminish our competitive advantage and, unless we are able pass on these increased labor costs to our customers by increasing prices, our profitability and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.We rely in large part on independent distributors for sales of our products and the continued consolidation of distributors, loss of key distributors or the increased purchases by our distributors from our competitors could materially harm our business.We depend on more than 3,300 independent distributors to sell our products and provide service and after-market support to our ultimate customers. Distributors play a significant role in determining which of our products are stocked at their branch locations and the prices at which they are sold, which impacts how accessible our products are to end users of our products. Almost all of the distributors with whom we do business offer competing products and services to end users. There is a trend toward consolidation of these distributors, which has been escalating in recent years. Our largest distributor — Airgas, Inc. — accounted for 10%, 12% and 11% of our net sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Recent economic events or future similar events could undermine the economic viability of some of our distributors. These events could also cause our competitors to introduce new economic inducements and pricing arrangements that may cause our distributors to increase purchases from our competitors and reduce purchases from us. The continued consolidation of these distributors, the loss of certain key distributors or an increase in the distributors’ purchase of our competitors’ products for sale to end users could adversely affect our results of operations.Our business is highly competitive, and increased competition could reduce our sales, earnings or profitability.We offer products in highly competitive markets. We compete on the performance, functionality, price, brand recognition, customer service and support and availability of our products. We compete with companies of various sizes, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we do. Increased competition could force us to lower our prices or to offer additional product features or services at a higher cost to us, which could reduce our net sales or net earnings or adversely affect our profitability.The greater financial resources of certain of our competitors may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions. Certain competitors may also have the ability to develop product innovations that could put us at a disadvantage. In addition, some of our competitors have achieved substantially more market penetration in certain segments of those markets in which we operate. If we are unable to compete successfully against other manufacturers in our marketplace, we could lose customers, and our sales may decline. There can also be no assurance that customers will continue to regard our products favorably, that we will be able to develop new products that appeal to customers, that we will be able to improve or maintain our profit margins or that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in maintaining or increasing our market share.11Failure to enhance existing products and develop new products may adversely impact our financial results.Our financial and strategic performance depends partially on providing new and enhanced products to the global marketplace. We may not be able to develop or acquire innovative products or otherwise obtain intellectual property in a timely and effective manner in order to maintain and grow our position in global markets. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that new products or product improvements will be met with customer acceptance or contribute positively to our financial results. We may not be able to continue to support the levels of research and development activities and expenditures necessary to improve and expand our products. Competitors may be able to direct more capital and other resources to new or emerging technologies to respond to changes in customer requirements.If we cannot adequately enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position will suffer, and we may incur significant additional costs in defending our use of intellectual property rights.We own a number of patents, trademarks and licenses related to our products and rights under patents owned by others. While no single patent, trademark or license is material to the operation of our business as a whole, our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights in the United States and in foreign countries is critical to our competitive position and our ability to continue to bring new and enhanced products to the marketplace. We rely upon patent, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in foreign countries, as well as agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other third parties, to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights. Third parties may challenge, infringe upon or otherwise circumvent our intellectual property rights, which could adversely impact our competitive position. Further, the enforceability of our intellectual property rights in various foreign countries is uncertain. Accordingly, in certain countries, we may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could harm our competitive position and could adversely affect our results of operations.Third parties also may claim that we or our customers are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Defending those claims and contesting the validity of third parties’ asserted intellectual property rights can be time consuming and costly. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing, marketing or selling certain of our products.We are subject to risks caused by changes in interest rates.Changes in benchmark interest rates (e.g., the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”)) will impact the interest cost component associated with our variable interest rate debt. Our variable rate debt includes any borrowings under the Working Capital Facility. Changes in interest rates would affect our cost of future borrowings and increase our interest expense. Significant increases in interest rates would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations if we have balances outstanding on our Working Capital Facility during the year.We are subject to risks caused by disruptions in the credit markets.The Working Capital Facility is provided under an agreement with General Electric Capital Corporation, which will mature in 2015. Our operations may be funded through daily borrowings and repayments from and to our lender under the Working Capital Facility. Our ability to access this facility will be affected by the amount and value of our assets which are used to determine the borrowing base under the facility. The temporary or permanent loss of the use of the Working Capital Facility or the inability to replace this facility when it expires could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Credit availability for our suppliers and customers has been reduced due to the disruptions in the credit markets and the general global economic environment. This decreased availability for our customers and suppliers may have an adverse effect on the demand for our products, the collection of our accounts receivable and our ability to timely fulfill our commitments.If our relationships with our employees were to deteriorate, we could be adversely affected.Currently, in our U.S. operations (where none of our employees are represented by a labor union) and in our foreign operations (where the majority of our employees are represented by labor unions), we have maintained a positive working environment. Although we focus on maintaining a productive relationship with our employees, we cannot ensure that unions, particularly in the United States, will not attempt to organize our employees or that we will not be subject to work stoppages, strikes or other types of conflicts with our employees or organized labor in the future. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and serve our customers and could materially impair our relationships with key customers and suppliers, which could damage our business, results of operations and financial condition.12If we are unable to retain and hire key employees, we could be adversely affected.Our ability to provide high-quality products and services for our customers and to manage the complexity of our business is dependent on our ability to retain and to attract skilled personnel in the areas of product engineering, manufacturing, sales, brand management and finance. Our businesses rely heavily on key personnel in the engineering, design, formulation and manufacturing of our products. Our success is also dependent on the management and leadership skills of our senior management team. As with all of our employees, we focus on maintaining a productive relationship with our key personnel. However, we cannot ensure that our employees will remain with us indefinitely. The loss of a key employee and the inability to find an adequate replacement could materially impair our relationship with key customers and suppliers, which could damage our business, results of operations and financial condition.If we are unable to successfully identify and integrate acquisitions, our results of operations could be adversely affected.As part of our growth strategy, we may seek to identify and complete acquisitions that meet our strategic and financial return criteria. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to locate suitable candidates or acquire them on acceptable terms or, because of limitations imposed by the agreements governing our indebtedness, including the Indenture and the credit agreement governing the Working Capital Facility, that we will be able to finance future acquisitions. Acquisitions involve special risks, including, without limitation, the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies, difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses, disruption of our existing business, dissipation of our limited management resources, and impairment of relationships with employees and customers of the acquired business as a result of changes in ownership and management. While we believe that strategic acquisitions can improve our competitiveness and profitability, these activities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.If we fail to implement our business strategy, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.Our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. Our business strategy envisions several initiatives, including diversifying our business into new channels and markets, focusing on new product development, implementing productivity and cost reduction programs and pursuing strategic acquisitions. We may not be able to implement our business strategy successfully or achieve the anticipated benefits of our business plan. If we are unable to do so, our long-term growth and profitability may be adversely affected. Even if we are able to implement some or all of the initiatives of our business plan successfully, our operating results may not improve to the extent we anticipate, or at all.A material disruption at any of our manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our ability to generate sales and meet customer demand.If operations at our manufacturing facilities were to be disrupted as a result of significant equipment failures, natural disasters, power outages, fires, explosions, terrorism, adverse weather conditions, labor disputes or other reasons, our financial performance could be adversely affected as a result of our inability to meet customer demand for our products. Interruptions in production could increase our costs and reduce our sales. Any interruption in production capability could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to remedy the situation, which could negatively affect our profitability and financial condition. We maintain property damage insurance which we believe to be adequate to provide for reconstruction of facilities and equipment, as well as business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from any production interruption or shutdown caused by an insured loss. However, any recovery under our insurance policies may not offset the lost sales or increased costs that may be experienced during the disruption of operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance.Our products involve risks of personal injury and property damage, which expose us to potential liability.Our business exposes us to possible claims for personal injury or death and property damage resulting from the products that we sell. We maintain insurance for loss (excluding attorneys’ fees and expenses) through a combination of self-insurance retentions and excess insurance coverage. We are not insured against punitive damage awards, and we are not currently insured for liability from manganese-induced illness. We monitor claims and potential claims of which we become aware and establish reserves for the self- insurance amounts based on our liability estimates for such claims. We cannot give any assurance that existing or future claims will not exceed our estimates for self-insurance or the amount of our excess insurance coverage. In addition, we cannot give any assurance that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms or that our insurers would not require us to increase our self-insurance amounts. Claims brought against us that are not covered by insurance or that result in recoveries in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, despite any insurance coverage, any accident or incident involving our products could negatively affect our reputation among customers, suppliers, lenders, investors and the public. This may make it more difficult for us to operate our business and compete effectively.13We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations and may incur costs that have a material adverse effect on our financial condition as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations.Our operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the generation, handling, storage, use, management, transportation and disposal of, or exposure to, hazardous materials resulting from the manufacturing process and employee health and safety. Permits are required for our operations and these permits are subject to renewal, modification and, in certain circumstances, revocation. As an owner and operator of real property and a generator of hazardous waste, we may also be subject to liability for the remediation of contaminated sites. Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and the interpretation and enforcement thereof are subject to change and have tended to become stricter over time. While we are not currently aware of any outstanding material claims or obligations, we could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, and third-party property damage or personal injury claims, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws or noncompliance with environmental permits required at our facilities, which, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.Contaminants have been detected at some of our present and former sites. In the past, we have been named as a potentially responsible party at certain Superfund sites to which we may have sent hazardous waste materials. While we are not currently aware of any contaminated or Superfund sites as to which material outstanding claims or obligations exist, the discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations at these or other sites could result in significant liability. In addition, the ultimate costs under environmental laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to predict. Liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act and analogous state laws, can be imposed retroactively and without regard to fault. Further, one responsible party could be held liable for all costs at a site. Thus, we may incur material liabilities related to the investigation and remediation of contaminated sites under existing environmental laws and regulations or environmental laws and regulations that may be adopted in the future, which, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.14