Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is cyclical and is affected by industrial economic conditions. Our business is highly cyclical because many of the end-users of our products are themselves in highly cyclical industries, such as commercial construction, steel shipbuilding, petrochemical construction and general manufacturing. The demand for our products and therefore our results of operations are directly related to the level of production in these end-user industries. Accordingly, our business is to a large extent determined by general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. Our business is highly competitive, and increased competition could reduce our sales, earnings and profitability. We offer products in highly competitive markets. We compete primarily on the performance, functionality, price, brand recognition, customer service and support and availability of our products. We compete with companies of various sizes, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we do. Increased competition could force us to lower our prices or to offer additional product features or services at a higher cost to us, which could reduce our sales and net earnings. The greater financial resources of certain of our competitors may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions. Certain competitors may also have the ability to develop product innovations that could put us at a disadvantage. In addition, some of our competitors have achieved substantially more market penetration in certain of the markets in which we operate. If we are unable to compete successfully against other manufacturers in our marketplace, we could lose customers, and our sales may decline. There can also be no assurance that customers will continue to regard our products favorably, that we will be able to develop new products that appeal to customers, that we will be able to improve or maintain our profit margins on sales to our customers or that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in our core markets. Our efforts to improve product availability, on time delivery and customer satisfaction could increase our costs and be disruptive to our business. We have several ongoing initiatives, and we are launching a new global logistics system intended to significantly reduce delays in providing products to our customers and to ease the administrative complexities of purchasing from our multiple product lines and multiple locations. There is no assurance that these efforts, which are intended to respond to increasing competition and customer expectations, will provide the intended benefits. Our efforts could increase costs without achieving the intended increase in profitability and certain system changes could detrimentally impact product availability and access ability for our customers if improperly implemented. We are subject to general economic factors that are largely out of our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to a number of general economic factors, many of which are out of our control, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. These include recessionary economic cycles and cyclical downturns in our customers’ businesses, particularly customers in the manufacturing and construction industries, fluctuations in the cost of raw materials, such as copper, brass and steel, the substitution of plastic or other materials for metal in many products and the movement of metal fabrication operations outside the United States. Economic conditions may adversely affect our customers’ business levels, which can have the effect of reducing the amount of our products they purchase. Furthermore, customers encountering adverse economic conditions may have difficulty paying for our products. Finally, terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts, war or other armed conflicts involving the United States or its interests abroad may have a material adverse effect on the U.S. and global economies and on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 13 We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and may not be able to report timely and accurate financial results. We have identified several material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and have restated our results for the year ended December 31, 2004 and the seven months ended December 31, 2003 and the quarterly results for the first three quarters of 2005, each quarter in 2004 and the second, third and fourth quarters of 2003. We cannot be assured that additional material weaknesses, significant deficiencies and control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. We could incur substantial expenses relating to the remediation of the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Our accounting and financial reporting functions have experienced high turnover. Our efforts to improve the knowledge level of our staff and their effectiveness may take longer than anticipated, resulting in delays in our remediation and may give rise to future significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our system of internal control over financial reporting. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in the future could be impacted by a variety of factors, including faulty human judgment, simple errors, omissions or mistakes, and the possibility that any enhancements to disclosure controls and procedures may still not be adequate to assure timely and accurate financial information. If we fail to achieve and maintain effective controls and procedures for financial reporting, we could be unable to provide timely and accurate financial information. This may cause us to fail to satisfy the reporting requirements with our lenders and give rise to an event of default or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. This may also have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock, give rise to an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), civil or criminal sanctions. Additionally, ineffective internal control over financial reporting would place us at increased risk of fraud or misuse of corporate assets. Our international operations pose certain risks that may adversely impact sales and earnings. We have manufacturing operations and assets located outside of the United States, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, England, Italy, Malaysia, South Africa and Mexico. We also sell our products to distributors located in approximately 100 countries. During the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 37% of our consolidated sales were derived from non-U.S. markets. A key part of our long-term strategy is to increase our manufacturing, distribution and sales presence in international markets. These international operations are subject to a number of special risks, in addition to the risks of our domestic business, including currency exchange rate fluctuations, differing protections of intellectual property, trade barriers, labor unrest, exchange controls, regional economic uncertainty, differing (and possibly more stringent) labor regulation, risk of governmental expropriation, domestic and foreign customs and tariffs, current and changing regulatory environments, difficulty in obtaining distribution support, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differences in the availability and terms of financing, political instability and unrest and risks of increases in taxes. Also, in some foreign jurisdictions, we may be subject to laws limiting the right and ability of entities organized or operating therein to pay dividends or remit earnings to affiliated companies unless specified conditions are met. These factors may adversely affect our future profits. Our products are used primarily in metal fabrication operations to cut and join metal parts. Metal fabrication operations are growing faster outside of the United States than they are in the United States, and certain metal fabrication, as well as manufacturing operations generally, is moving from the United States to international locations where labor costs are lower. Maintaining and expanding international operations require significant coordination, capital and resources. If these resources were to prove too 14 costly or difficult to attain, we may be unable to grow our sales in these international locations, and our future sales and earnings could be lower. We are subject to currency fluctuations from our international sales. Our products are sold in many countries around the world. A portion of our international sales is denominated in foreign currencies, including the Australian dollar, Brazilian real, Canadian dollar, euro, pound sterling and South African rand, while a portion of the costs incurred to generate those revenues is incurred in other currencies. Because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our earnings. We currently do not have exchange rate hedges in place to reduce the risk of an adverse currency exchange movement. Currency fluctuations have affected our financial performance in the past and will likely affect our financial performance in the future. We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. Actions of this nature, if they occur or continue for significant periods of time, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in any given period. Liabilities relating to litigation alleging manganese induced illness could reduce our profitability and impair our financial condition. At December 31, 2005, we were a co-defendant in 1,128 cases alleging manganese induced illness. Manganese is an essential element of steel and contained in all welding consumables. We are one of a large number of defendants. The claimants allege that exposure to manganese contained in the welding consumables caused the plaintiffs to develop adverse neurological conditions, including a condition known as manganism. As of December 31, 2005, 707 of these cases had been filed in, or transferred to, federal court where the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation has consolidated these cases for pretrial proceedings in the Northern District of Ohio (the “MDL Court”). Between June 1, 2003 and December 31, 2005, we were dismissed from 185 other cases with similar allegations. The aggregate long-term impact of the manganese loss contingencies on operating cash flows and financial condition is difficult to assess, particularly since claims are in many different stages of development. While we intend to contest these lawsuits vigorously, there are several risks and uncertainties that may affect our liability for personal claims relating to exposure to manganese, including the possibility that our litigation experience changes overall. We are subject to risks caused by changes in interest rates. Increases in benchmark interest rates will likely increase the interest cost associated with our variable interest rate debt and will increase the cost of future borrowings, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to successfully implement our cost-reduction initiatives. We have undertaken and may continue to undertake cost-reduction initiatives. There can be no assurance that these initiatives will be completed or beneficial to us or that any estimated cost savings from such activities will be realized. If our cost-reduction efforts are unsuccessful, it may have a material adverse effect on our business. 15 Our success depends on our ability to enhance existing products and develop new products. Our financial and strategic performance depends partially on our ability to meet customer demand for new and enhanced products. We may not be able to sustain or expand existing levels of research and development expenditures. We also may not be able to develop or acquire innovative products or otherwise obtain intellectual property in a timely and effective manner. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that new products or product improvements will be met with customer acceptance or contribute positively to our results. In addition, competitors may be able to direct more capital and more resources to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Our products involve risks of personal injury and property damage, which expose us to potential liability. Our business exposes us to possible claims for personal injury or death and property damage resulting from the products that we sell. We maintain insurance for loss (excluding attorneys’ fees and expenses) through a combination of self-insurance retentions and excess insurance coverage. We are not insured against punitive damage awards. We monitor claims and potential claims of which we become aware and establish reserves for the self-insurance amounts based on our liability estimates for such claims. We cannot give any assurance that existing or future claims will not exceed our estimates for self-insurance or the amount of our excess insurance coverage. In addition, we cannot give any assurance that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms or that our insurers would not require us to increase our self-insurance amounts. Claims brought against us that are not covered by insurance or that result in recoveries in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our results and financial condition. Moreover, any accident or incident involving us, even if we are fully insured or not held to be liable, could negatively affect our reputation among customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly affect the cost and availability of insurance in the future. We may not have sufficient financial resources and liquidity to pursue our business plans which could limit our ability to compete and achieve reasonable profitability. If we fail to comply with the financial covenants in our debt instruments or due to other constraints our ability to obtain financing may be adversely impacted. The effects of increasing material costs, increasing competition, the need to enhance existing products and our efforts to improve on time delivery of our products may increase expenses and capital expenditures without a timely improvement in profitability and we may not have sufficient liquidity to proceed as planned jeopardizing future profitability and our competitive position. In addition, our Amended Credit Agreement and our Second-Lien Facility contain certain financial covenants. The financial covenants have been amended on several occasions, most recently in July 2006, to reflect our actual results and revisions to our business plan. While we believe that we will be able to comply with the most recently amended financial covenants in future periods, failure to do so would, unless the covenants were further amended or waived, result in defaults under the Credit Agreement and the Second-Lien Facility. An event of default under the credit facilities, if not waived, could result in the acceleration of those debt obligations and, consequently, our debt obligations under our 9¼% Senior Subordinated Notes. Such acceleration could result in exercise of remedies by our creditors and could force us to seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws, which could have a material adverse impact on our ability to operate our business and to make payments under our debt instruments. In addition, an event of default under the credit facilities, such as the failure to maintain the applicable required financial ratios, would prevent additional borrowing under our credit facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and to make payments under our debt instruments. 16 For a description of our Credit Agreement, our Second-Lien Facility and our Senior Subordinated Notes, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” If we are unable to retain and hire key employees, the performance of our operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to provide high-quality products and services depends in part on our ability to retain our skilled personnel in the areas of product engineering, manufacturing and sales. Certain of our businesses rely heavily on key personnel in the engineering, design, formulation and manufacturing of our products. Our success is also dependent on the management and leadership skills of our senior management team. We have experienced high turnover in the finance function and certain manufacturing roles and we have been operating without a CFO and without an Executive Vice President of Global Manufacturing. In addition, our controller announced his resignation July 5, 2006. Our success is dependent upon effectively filling these positions and retaining key personnel. We rely in large part on independent distributors for sales of our products. We depend on independent distributors to sell our products and provide service and after-market support to our ultimate customers. Distributors play a significant role in determining which of our products are stocked at branch locations and the price at which they are sold, which impacts how accessible our products are to our ultimate customers. Almost all of the distributors with whom we transact business offer competing products and services to our ultimate customers. We do not have written agreements with our distributors located in the United States. The loss of a substantial number of these distributors or an increase in the distributors’ sales of our competitors’ products to our ultimate customers could materially reduce our sales and earnings. Our future operating results may be affected by fluctuations in the prices and availability of raw materials. We purchase a large amount of commodity raw materials and certain of the raw materials used in our hardfacing products, such as cobalt and chromium, are available primarily from sources outside the United States. The raw materials industry as a whole is highly cyclical, and at times pricing and supply can be volatile due to a number of factors beyond our control, including general economic and political conditions, labor costs, competition, import duties, tariffs and currency exchange rates. This volatility can significantly affect our raw material costs. In an environment of increasing raw material prices, competitive conditions can affect how much of the price increases we can recover in the form of higher unit sales prices. To the extent we are unable to pass on any price increases to our customers, our profitability could be adversely affected. Furthermore, restrictions in the supply of cobalt, chromium and other raw materials could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, certain of our customers rely heavily on raw materials, and to the extent there are fluctuations in prices, it could affect orders for our products and our financial performance. If our relationship with our employees were to deteriorate, we could be adversely affected. Currently, in our U.S. operations (where none of our employees are represented by labor unions) and in our foreign operations (where the majority of our employees are represented by labor unions), we have maintained a positive working environment. Although we focus on maintaining a productive relationship with our employees, we cannot ensure that unions, particularly in the United States, will not attempt to organize our employees or that we will not be subject to work stoppages, strikes or other types of conflicts with our employees or organized labor in the future. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and serve our customers and could materially impair our 17 relationships with key customers and suppliers, which could damage our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations and may incur costs that have a material adverse effect on our financial condition as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. Our operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the use, management and disposal of hazardous materials, and employee health and safety. As an owner and operator of real property and a generator of hazardous waste, we may also be subject to liability for the remediation of contaminated sites. While we are not currently aware of any outstanding material claims or obligations, we could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws or noncompliance with environmental permits required at our facilities. Contaminants have been detected at some of our present and former sites. In addition, we have been named as a potentially responsible party at certain Superfund sites. While we are not currently aware of any contaminated or Superfund sites as to which material outstanding claims or obligations exist, the discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations at these or other sites could result in significant liability. In addition, the ultimate costs under environmental laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to predict. Liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act and analogous state laws, can be imposed retroactively and without regard to fault. Further, one responsible party could be held liable for all costs at a site. Thus, we may incur material liabilities under existing environmental laws and regulations or environmental laws and regulations that may be adopted in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 