Item 1A. Risk Factors This section discusses risks that are specific to our company and may affect our financial performance, including future earnings. Investing in our common stock involves risks, including those described below. These risk factors should be considered by prospective and current investors in our common stock when evaluating the disclosures in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (particularly the forward-looking statements.) Additional risks may emerge in the future of which we are not aware and may impact our company in a manner that can not be estimated. The following are risk factors that may have a material effect on our financial condition or operating performance. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our increasing percentage of commercial real estate, commercial business and consumer loans. At March 31, 2007, our loan portfolio included $246.0 million of commercial real estate, commercial business and consumer loans, representing approximately 59.6% of our total loan portfolio, compared to $106.5 million or 41.6% at March 31, 2003. We have been increasing, and intend to continue to increase, our origination of these types of loans. The credit risk related to commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans is considered to be greater than the risk related to one- to four-family residential loans because the repayment of commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans typically is dependent on the successful operations and income stream of the borrowers' business and the real estate securing the loan as collateral, which can be significantly affected by economic conditions. Additionally, if we foreclos e on a commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral, if any, typically is longer than for one- to four-family residential mortgage loan because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Furthermore, these loans generally carry larger balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers than one- to four-family loans. Any delinquent payments or the failure to repay these loans would hurt our earnings. Consumer loans also generally entail greater risk than do one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, particularly in the case of loans that are secured by rapidly depreciable assets, such as automobiles, which comprise approximately 57.3% of our consumer loan portfolio at March 31, 2007 compared to approximately 44.9% at March 31, 2003. As a result of our increasing consumer loan portfolio, it may become necessary to increase the level of our provision for loan losses, which could hurt our profits. In these cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance. In addition, the majority of our automobile loans are comprised of indirect automobile loans which are originated by a third party on our behalf through a network of automobile dealers. Because these loans are originated through a third party and not directly by us, they present greater risks than other types of lending activities. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in market interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. We are unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors, including: inflation; recession; a rise in unemployment; tightening money supply; changes in monetary and fiscal policies, including interest rate policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System; and domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. 29NEXT PAGE Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce our profits. We expect that the Bank will continue to realize income from the differential or "spread" between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Further, our net interest spread may be negatively impacted when short-term rates rise faster than long-term interest rates over a prolonged period. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of some borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations, especially borrowers with adjustable rate mortgage loans. At March 31, 2007, approximately 71.2% of our total loan portfolio, before net items, consisted of adjustable rate loans. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, levels of prepayments and cash flows as well as the market value of our securities portfolio and overall profitability. Changes in economic conditions, particularly an economic slowdown in our local market area in Virginia, could hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies, all of which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic conditions, in particular in our local market areas of the Shenandoah Valley (western) and Hampton Roads (eastern) of Virginia, could result in any or all of the following consequences, any of which could hurt our business materially: loan delinquencies may increase; problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for our products and services may decline; and collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing a client's borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans held for investment. There have been announced or proposed military installation and plant closings or reductions in one of our local market areas. The realization of these actions could have significant adverse consequences on the employment and businesses conditions in this market area. While we do not have significant credit exposure to these businesses, the impact on local economic conditions could affect the real estate collateral values generally, which could negatively affect our profitability. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Through a periodic review and consideration of our loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the performance of our customers relative to their financial obligations with us and the historical credit quality of our loan performance. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control and these losses may exceed our estimates. To date, we have experienced negligible loss es. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from ours. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on financial condition and results of 30NEXT PAGE operations. While we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover current losses, we cannot provide assurance. Our directors and executive officers own a significant amount of our common stock and can exert significant control over matters voted on by stockholders. As of March 31, 2007, our directors and executive officers as a group beneficially owned, excluding options to purchase our common stock, approximately 12.3% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, over the years, these directors and executive officers have been granted options to acquire shares of our common stock, which when exercised will increase their ownership of shares of our common stock. As of March 31, 2007, assuming the full exercise of all outstanding options, our directors and executive officers would beneficially own in the aggregate approximately 18.9% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these individuals, by virtue of their stock ownership, could have the ability of voting as a group to influence the outcome of any matters to be decided by a vote of stockholders. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market. A slowdown in the overall housing market and the potential impact of sub-prime loans originated by others may increase the supply of housing units on the market which could negatively affect our construction and development portfolio. There has been an announced housing slowdown in certain national markets and increased mortgage delinquencies related primarily to sub-prime lending. The housing slowdown coupled with the potential impact of sub-prime loans originated by others in the Bank's markets in recent years could adversely impact the Bank's performance. As homeowner's face significant increases in their housing payments when these sub-prime loans reset, this will likely have an adverse affect on the economy with an increasing supply of housing units on the market. It is predicted that these adverse impacts will result in increased numbers of houses listed for sale (for those facing unaffordable increases in their monthly housing payments) and it will also likely increase the number of foreclosures on residential units. This sub-prime impact is in its early stages and a significant amount of uncertainty remains (and will likely remain for some time until the actual impacts can be better quantified). Community Bank does not have any sub-prime lending programs at the Bank and we have not noticed any significant changes in the economic conditions in our market areas as of the date of this report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 31NEXT PAGE 