Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and others are discussed elsewhere in this report. These and other risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects, operating results or cash flows. The following risk factors are not an exhaustive list of the risks associated with our business. New factors may emerge or changes to these risks could occur that could materially affect our business. We operate in a highly competitive business. The pharmaceutical and medical device industries are highly competitive and they require an ongoing, extensive search for technological innovation. They also require, among other things, the ability to effectively discover, develop, test and obtain regulatory approvals for products, as well as the ability to effectively 26 Table of Contents commercialize, market and promote approved products, including communicating the effectiveness, safety and value of products to actual and prospective customers and medical professionals. Many of our competitors have greater resources than we have. This enables them, among other things, to make greater research and development investments and spread their research and development costs, as well as their marketing and promotion costs, over a broader revenue base. Our competitors may also have more experience and expertise in obtaining marketing approvals from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and other regulatory authorities. In addition to product development, testing, approval and promotion, other competitive factors in the pharmaceutical and medical device industries include industry consolidation, product quality and price, product technology, reputation, customer service and access to technical information. It is possible that developments by our competitors could make our products or technologies less competitive or obsolete. Our future growth depends, in part, on our ability to develop products which are more effective. For instance, for our eye care products to be successful, we must be able to manufacture and effectively market those products and effectively detail them to a sufficient number of eye care professionals such that they determine to use or continue to use our current products and the new products we may introduce. Glaucoma must be treated over an extended period and doctors may be reluctant to switch a patient to a new treatment if the patient’s current treatment for glaucoma remains effective. Sales of our existing products may decline rapidly if a new product is introduced by one of our competitors or if we announce a new product that, in either case, represents a substantial improvement over our existing products. Similarly, if we fail to make sufficient investments in research and development programs, our current and planned products could be surpassed by more effective or advanced products developed by our competitors. Until December 2000, Botox® was the only neuromodulator approved by the FDA. At that time, the FDA approved Myobloc®, a neuromodulator formerly marketed by Elan Pharmaceuticals and now marketed by Solstice Neurosciences, Inc. Ipsen Ltd., or Ipsen, is seeking FDA approval of its Dysport® neuromodulator for certain therapeutic indications, and Medicis Pharmaceutical Corporation, or Medicis, its licensee for the United States, Canada and Japan, is seeking approval of Reloxin® for cosmetic indications. Ipsen and Medicis submitted a Biologics License Application, or BLA, to the FDA for Reloxin® in December 2007. Ipsen has marketed Dysport® in Europe since 1991, prior to our European commercialization of Botox® in 1992. In June 2006, Ipsen received marketing authorization for a cosmetic indication for Dysport® in Germany. In 2007, Ipsen granted Galderma, a joint venture between Nestle and L’Oreal Group, an exclusive development and marketing license for Dysport® for aesthetic indications in the European Union, Russia, Eastern Europe and the Middle East, and first rights of negotiation for other countries around the world, except the United States, Canada and Japan. In January 2008, Galderma became Ipsen’s sole distributor for Dysport® in Brazil, Argentina and Paraguay. Ipsen is also seeking approval for Reloxin® for cosmetic indications in the European Union, having submitted a file to the French regulatory authority in May 2003. We expect, based on comments made by Galderma, that Reloxin® will be approved in France in 2009. Mentor Corporation is conducting clinical trials for a competing neuromodulator in the United States. In addition, we are aware of competing neuromodulators currently being developed and commercialized in Asia, Europe, South America and other markets. A Chinese entity received approval to market a botulinum toxin in China in 1997, and we believe that it has launched or is planning to launch its botulinum toxin product in other lightly regulated markets in Asia, South America and Central America. These lightly regulated markets may not require adherence to the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, regulations or the regulatory requirements of the European Medical Evaluation Agency or other regulatory agencies in countries that are members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Therefore, companies operating in these markets may be able to produce products at a lower cost than we can. In addition, Merz received approval for Xeomin® in Germany and launched its product in July 2005, received approval in Mexico in 2006 and commenced sales in the United Kingdom and France in early 2008, and is pursuing additional approvals in the European Union and Latin America. Merz is currently in clinical trials in the United States for cervical dystonia, blepharospasm and cosmetic indications and is awaiting therapeutic licenses for Xeomin® in many countries across the European Union. A Korean botulinum toxin, Meditoxin®, was approved for sale in Korea in June 2006. The company, Medy-Tox Inc., received exportation approval from Korean authorities in early 2005 to ship their product under the trade name Neuronox®. In February 2007, Q-Med announced a worldwide license for Neuronox®, with the exception of certain 27 Table of Contents countries in Asia where Medy-Tox may retain the marketing rights. Our sales of Botox® could be materially and negatively impacted by this competition or competition from other companies that might obtain FDA approval or approval from other regulatory authorities to market a neuromodulator. Mentor Corporation is our principal competitor in the United States for breast implants. Mentor announced that, like us, it received FDA approval in November 2006 to sell its silicone breast implants. The conditions under which Mentor is allowed to market its silicone breast implants in the United States are similar to ours, including indications for use and the requirement to conduct post-marketing studies. If patients or physicians prefer Mentor’s breast implant products to ours or perceive that Mentor’s breast implant products are safer than ours, our sales of breast implants could materially suffer. We are aware of several companies conducting clinical studies of breast implant products in the United States. Internationally, we compete with several manufacturers, including Mentor Corporation, Sientra, Inc., MediCor Ltd, Poly Implant Prostheses, Nagor and Laboratoires Sebbin. Medicis Pharmaceutical Corporation began marketing the dermal fillers Restylane® in January 2004 and Perlanetm in May 2007. Through our purchase of Cornéal, we acquired the rights to sell the Juvédermtm family of products worldwide. Juvédermtm 30, Juvédermtm Ultra and Juvédermtm Ultra Plus were approved by the FDA for sale in the United States in June 2006, and we announced nationwide availability of Juvédermtm Ultra and Juvédermtm Ultra Plus in January 2007. We cannot assure you that our Juvédermtm family of products will offer equivalent or greater facial aesthetic benefits to competitive dermal filler products, that it will be competitive in price or gain acceptance in the marketplace. In addition, in June 2007, the FDA approved label extensions for Juvedermtm Ultra and Juvedermtm Ultra Plus based on new clinical data demonstrating that effects of both products may last for up to one year, which is a longer period of time than was reported in clinical studies that supported FDA approval of other hyaluronic acid dermal fillers. We cannot assure you that other dermal fillers, including hyaluronic acid dermal fillers, do not have or will not obtain labels or label extensions that demonstrate product effects that are equivalent to or better than our products. Should our competitors obtain such labels or label extensions demonstrating product effects that are equivalent to or better than our products, our sales of Juvedermtm could be materially and negatively impacted. In September 2007, Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc., a Johnson & Johnson company, announced FDA approval of its gastric band product, the Realizetm band, which competes with our Lap-Band® System in the U.S. market. The Lap-Band® System also competes with surgical obesity procedures, including gastric bypass, vertical banded gastroplasty, sleeve gastrectomy and biliopancreatic diversion. Our products for the treatment of over-active-bladder, or OAB, Sanctura® and Sanctura XRtm, compete with several other OAB treatment products, most of which have been on the market for a longer period of time, including Pfizer Inc.’s Detrol® and Detrol® LA, Watson Pharma Inc.’s Oxytrol®, Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation and the Proctor & Gamble Company’s Enablex® and Astellas Pharma US, Inc. and GlaxoSmithKline’s Vesicare®. While we believe that Sanctura® and Sanctura XRtm have advantages over these competing products, we cannot assure you that Sanctura® and Sanctura XRtm offer more effective treatment of OAB for all patients, will be competitive in price or will obtain, maintain or expand market share in the OAB treatment market. We also face competition from generic drug manufacturers in the United States and internationally. For instance, Falcon Pharmaceuticals, Ltd., an affiliate of Alcon, attempted to obtain FDA approval for a brimonidine product to compete with our Alphagan® P product. Pursuant to our March 2006 settlement with Alcon, Alcon may sell, offer for sale or distribute its brimonidine product after September 30, 2009, or earlier if specified market conditions occur. The primary market condition will have occurred if the extent to which prescriptions of Alphagan® P have been converted to other brimonidine-containing products we market has increased to a specified threshold. In May 2005, we received a paragraph 4 Hatch-Waxman Act certification from Apotex, Inc., in which it purports to have sought FDA approval to market a generic form of Acular LS®. In February 2007, we received a paragraph 4 Hatch-Waxman Act certification from Exela PharmSci, Inc. in which it purports to have sought FDA approval to market a generic form of Alphagan® P. In May 2007, we received a paragraph 4 Hatch-Waxman Act certification from Apotex, Inc. in which it purports to have sought FDA approval to market a generic form of Alphagan® P. In October 2007, we received a paragraph 4 Hatch-Waxman Act certification from Apotex Corp. in which it purports to have sought FDA approval to market a generic form of Zymar®. See Item 3 of Part I of 28 Table of Contents this report, “Legal Proceedings” and Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements listed under Item 15 of Part IV of this report, “Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules,” for information concerning our current litigation. Changes in the consumer marketplace and economic conditions may adversely affect sales or the profitability of our products. Facial aesthetic products, such as Botox® Cosmetic and dermal fillers, obesity intervention products and, to a significant extent, breast implants, are products based on consumer choice. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react to competitive products or if consumer preferences in the cosmetic marketplace shift to alternative treatments, we may experience a decline in demand for these products. In addition, the popular media has at times in the past produced, and may continue in the future to produce, negative reports and publicity regarding the efficacy, safety or side effects of these products. Consumer perceptions of these products may be negatively impacted by these reports and for other reasons, including the use of unapproved botulinum toxins that result in injury, which may cause demand to decline. Breast augmentation, Botox® Cosmetic and dermal fillers are elective aesthetic procedures and are not typically covered by insurance. Adverse changes in the economy may cause consumers to reassess their spending choices and reduce the demand for these procedures and our other over-the-counter products, and this shift could have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Reimbursement for obesity surgery, including use of our products, is available to various degrees in most of our international markets. In the United States, coverage and reimbursement by insurance plans are increasing, but not widely available to all insured patients. Adverse changes in the economy could have an adverse effect on consumer spending and governmental health care resources. This shift could have an adverse effect on the sales and profitability of our obesity intervention business. We could experience difficulties obtaining or creating the raw materials needed to produce our products and interruptions in the supply of raw materials could disrupt our manufacturing and cause our sales and profitability to decline. The loss of a material supplier or the interruption of our manufacturing processes could adversely affect our ability to manufacture or sell many of our products. We obtain the specialty chemicals that are the active pharmaceutical ingredients in certain of our products from single sources, who must maintain compliance with the FDA’s cGMP regulations. We also obtain Sanctura® and Sanctura XRtm under a manufacturing agreement with a sole source supplier. If we experience difficulties acquiring sufficient quantities of these materials or products from our existing suppliers, or if our suppliers are found to be non-compliant with the cGMPs, obtaining the required regulatory approvals, including from the FDA or the European Medical Evaluation Agency, or EMEA, to use alternative suppliers may be a lengthy and uncertain process. A lengthy interruption of the supply of one or more of these materials could adversely affect our ability to manufacture and supply products, which could cause our sales and profitability to decline. In addition, the manufacturing process to create the raw material necessary to produce Botox® is technically complex and requires significant lead-time. Any failure by us to forecast demand for, or to maintain an adequate supply of, the raw material and finished product could result in an interruption in the supply of Botox® and a resulting decrease in sales of the product. We also rely on a single supplier for silicone raw materials used in some of our products, including breast implants. Although we have an agreement with this supplier to transfer the necessary formulations to us in the event that it cannot meet our requirements, we cannot guarantee that we would be able to produce or obtain a sufficient amount of quality silicone raw materials in a timely manner. We depend on third party manufacturers for silicone molded components. These third party manufacturers must maintain compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which sets forth the current good manufacturing practice standard for medical devices and requires manufacturers to follow design, testing and control documentation and air quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process. Any material reduction in our raw material supply or a failure by our third party manufacturers to maintain compliance with the QSR could result in decreased sales of our products and a decease in 29 Table of Contents our revenues. Additionally, certain of our manufacturing processes that we perform are only performed at one location worldwide. Our future success depends upon our ability to develop new products, and new indications for existing products, that achieve regulatory approval for commercialization. For our business model to be successful, we must continually develop, test and manufacture new products or achieve new indications or label extensions for the use of our existing products. Prior to marketing, these new products and product indications must satisfy stringent regulatory standards and receive requisite approvals or clearances from regulatory authorities in the United States and abroad. The development, regulatory review and approval, and commercialization processes are time consuming, costly and subject to numerous factors that may delay or prevent the development, approval or clearance, and commercialization of new products, including legal actions brought by our competitors. To obtain approval or clearance of new indications or products in the United States, we must submit, among other information, the results of preclinical and clinical studies on the new indication or product candidate to the FDA. The number of preclinical and clinical studies that will be required for FDA approval varies depending on the new indication or product candidate, the disease or condition for which the new indication or product candidate is in development and the regulations applicable to that new indication or product candidate. Even if we believe that the data collected from clinical trials of new indications for our existing products or for our product candidates are promising, the FDA may find such data to be insufficient to support approval of the new indication or product. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval or clearance of a new indication or product candidate for many reasons, including: • a determination that the new indication or product candidate is not safe and effective; • the FDA may interpret our preclinical and clinical data in different ways than we do; • the FDA may not approve our manufacturing processes or facilities; • the FDA may require us to perform post-marketing clinical studies; or • the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations. Products that we are currently developing, other future product candidates or new indications or label extensions for our existing products, may or may not receive the regulatory approvals or clearances necessary for marketing or may receive such approvals or clearances only after delays or unanticipated costs. Delays or unanticipated costs in any part of the process or our inability to obtain timely regulatory approval for our products, including those attributable to, among other things, our failure to maintain manufacturing facilities in compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements, including the cGMPs and QSR, could cause our operating results to suffer and our stock price to decrease. Our facilities, our suppliers’ facilities and other third parties’ facilities on which we rely must pass pre-approval reviews and plant inspections and demonstrate compliance with the cGMPs and QSR. Further, even if we receive FDA and other regulatory approvals for a new indication or product, the product may later exhibit adverse effects that limit or prevent its widespread use or that force us to withdraw the product from the market or to revise our labeling to limit the indications for which the product may be prescribed. In addition, even if we receive the necessary regulatory approvals, we cannot assure you that new products or indications will achieve market acceptance. Our future performance will be affected by the market acceptance of products such as Acular LS®, Alphagan® P, Alphagan® P 0.1%, Botox®, Botox® Cosmetic, Combigantm, Ganfort®, Juvédermtm, the Lap-Band® System, Lumigan®, Restasis®, Sanctura®, Sanctura XRtm and Zymar®, as well as silicone breast implant products, new indications for Botox® and new products such as Posurdex® and Trivaristm. We cannot assure you that our currently marketed products will not be subject to further regulatory review and action or that any other compounds or products that we are developing for commercialization will be approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory bodies for marketing or that we will be able to commercialize them on terms that will be profitable, or at all. If any of our products cannot be successfully or timely commercialized, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. 30 Table of Contents Our product development efforts may not result in commercial products. We intend to continue an aggressive research and development program. Successful product development in the pharmaceutical and medical device industry is highly uncertain, and very few research and development projects produce a commercial product. Product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in early human clinical trials, may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: • the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results even though it demonstrated positive preclinical trial results; • the product candidate was not effective in treating a specified condition or illness; • the product candidate had harmful side effects in humans or animals; • the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the FDA, did not approve the product candidate for an intended use; • the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture and commercialize; • other companies or people have or may have proprietary rights to the product candidate, such as patent rights, and will not sell or license these rights to us on reasonable terms, or at all; • the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing therapeutics or alternative devices; and • certain of our licensors or partners may fail to effectively conduct clinical development or clinical manufacturing activities. Several of our product candidates have failed or been discontinued at various stages in the product development process. Of course, there may be other factors that prevent us from marketing a product. We cannot guarantee we will be able to produce commercially successful products. Further, clinical trial results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations by scientists, medical personnel, regulatory personnel, statisticians and others, which may delay, limit or prevent further clinical development or regulatory approvals of a product candidate. Also, the length of time that it takes for us to complete clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval for product marketing has in the past varied by product and by the intended use of a product. We expect that this will likely be the case with future product candidates and we cannot predict the length of time to complete necessary clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval. If we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate protection for our intellectual property rights associated with the technologies incorporated into our products, our business and results of operations could suffer. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents or rights to patents, protect trade secrets and other proprietary technologies and processes, and prevent others from infringing on our patents, trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property rights. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, we can lose a significant portion of sales of that product in a very short period of time as other companies manufacture generic forms of our previously protected product or manufacture similar products or devices at lower cost, without having had to incur significant research and development costs in formulating the product or designing the device. Therefore, our future financial success may depend in part on obtaining patent protection for technologies incorporated into our products. We cannot assure you that such patents will be issued, or that any existing or future patents will be of commercial benefit. In addition, it is impossible to anticipate the breadth or degree of protection that any such patents will afford, and we cannot assure you that any such patents will not be successfully challenged in the future. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining or preserving patent protection, or if any of our products rely on unpatented proprietary technology, we cannot assure you that others will not commercialize products substantially identical to those products. Generic drug manufacturers are currently challenging the patents covering certain of our products, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. Third parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates and technologies. Challenges may result in potentially significant harm to our business. The cost of responding to these challenges and the inherent costs to defend the validity of our patents, including the prosecution of infringements and the related litigation, could be substantial and can preclude or delay commercialization of products. Such litigation also could require a substantial commitment of our management’s time. For certain of our product candidates, third parties may have patents or pending patents that they claim prevent us from commercializing certain product candidates in certain territories. Our success depends in part on our ability 31 Table of Contents to obtain and defend patent rights and other intellectual property rights that are important to the commercialization of our products and product candidates. For additional information on our material patents, see “Patents, Trademarks and Licenses” in Item 1 of Part I of this report, “Business.” We also believe that the protection of our trademarks and service marks is an important factor in product recognition and in our ability to maintain or increase market share. If we do not adequately protect our rights in our various trademarks and service marks from infringement, their value to us could be lost or diminished, seriously impairing our competitive position. Moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. In addition to intellectual property protections afforded to trademarks, service marks and proprietary know-how by the various countries in which our proprietary products are sold, we seek to protect our trademarks, service marks and proprietary know-how through confidentiality and proprietary information agreements with third parties, including our partners, customers, employees and consultants. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for violation of our rights in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information. It is possible that these agreements will be breached or that they will not be enforceable in every instance, and that we will not have adequate remedies for any such breach. It is also possible that our trade secrets will become known or independently developed by our competitors. We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses and losses or prevent us from selling our products. We cannot assure you that our products will not infringe patents or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. In the event we discover that we may be infringing third party patents or other intellectual property rights, we may not be able to obtain licenses from those third parties on commercially attractive terms or at all. We may have to defend, and have defended, against charges that we violated patents or the proprietary rights of third parties. Litigation is costly and time-consuming, and diverts the attention of our management and technical personnel. In addition, if we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we could lose our right to develop, manufacture or sell products or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or a failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products, which could harm our business, financial condition, prospects, results of operations and cash flows. See Item 3 of Part I of this report, “Legal Proceedings” and Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements listed under Item 15 of Part IV of this report, “Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules,” for information concerning our current intellectual property litigation. Importation of products from Canada and other countries into the United States and intra-European Union trade may lower the prices we receive for our products. In the United States, some of our pharmaceutical products are subject to competition from lower priced versions of those products and competing products from Canada, Mexico and other countries where government price controls or other market dynamics result in lower prices. Our products that require a prescription in the United States are often available to consumers in these other markets without a prescription, which may cause consumers to further seek out our products in these lower priced markets. The ability of patients and other customers to obtain these lower priced imports has grown significantly as a result of the Internet, an expansion of pharmacies in Canada and elsewhere targeted to American purchasers, the increase in U.S.-based businesses affiliated with Canadian pharmacies marketing to American purchasers and other factors. These foreign imports are illegal under current U.S. law, with the sole exception of limited quantities of prescription drugs imported for personal use. However, the volume of imports continues to rise due to the limited enforcement resources of the FDA and the U.S. Customs Service, and there is increased political pressure to permit the imports as a mechanism for expanding access to lower priced medicines. In December 2003, Congress enacted the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003. This law contains provisions that may change U.S. import laws and expand consumers’ ability to import lower priced versions of our products and competing products from Canada, where there are government price controls. These changes to U.S. import laws will not take effect unless and until the Secretary of Health and Human 32 Table of Contents Services certifies that the changes will lead to substantial savings for consumers and will not create a public health safety issue. The Secretary of Health and Human Services has not made such a certification. However, it is possible that the current Secretary or a subsequent Secretary could make such a certification in the future. As directed by Congress, a task force on drug importation conducted a comprehensive study regarding the circumstances under which drug importation could be safely conducted and the consequences of importation on the health, medical costs and development of new medicines for U.S. consumers. The task force issued its report in December 2004, finding that there are significant safety and economic issues that must be addressed before importation of prescription drugs is permitted. In addition, federal legislative proposals have been made to implement the changes to the U.S. import laws without any certification, and to broaden permissible imports in other ways. Even if the changes to the U.S. import laws do not take effect, and other changes are not enacted, imports from Canada and elsewhere may continue to increase due to market and political forces, and the limited enforcement resources of the FDA, the U.S. Customs Service and other government agencies. For example, Public Law Number 109-295, which was signed into law in October 2006 and provides appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security for the 2007 fiscal year, expressly prohibits the U.S. Customs Services from using funds to prevent individuals from importing from Canada less than a 90-day supply of a prescription drug for personal use, when the drug otherwise complies with the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. In addition, certain state and local governments have implemented importation schemes for their citizens and, in the absence of federal action to curtail such activities, other states and local governments may also launch importation efforts. The importation of foreign products adversely affects our profitability in the United States. This impact could become more significant in the future, and the impact could be even greater if there is a further change in the law or if state or local governments take further steps to import products from abroad. Our ownership of real property and the operation of our business will continue to expose us to risks of environmental liabilities. Under various U.S. federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or the businesses that may be operated, and these restrictions may require expenditures. Environmental laws provide for sanctions in the event of noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. In connection with the acquisition and ownership of our properties, we may be potentially liable for such costs. The cost of defending against claims of liability, complying with environmental regulatory requirements or remediating any contaminated property could have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations. Any costs or expenses relating to environmental matters may not be covered by insurance. Our product development programs and manufacturing processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and toxic compounds. These programs and processes expose us to risks that an accidental contamination could lead to noncompliance with environmental laws, regulatory enforcement actions and claims for personal injury and property damage. If an accident or environmental discharge occurs, or if we discover contamination caused by prior operations, including by prior owners and operators of properties we acquire, we could be liable for cleanup obligations, damages and fines. The substantial unexpected costs we may incur could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may experience losses due to product liability claims, product recalls or corrections. The design, development, manufacture and sale of our products involve an inherent risk of product liability or other claims by consumers and other third parties. We have in the past been, and continue to be, subject to various product liability claims and lawsuits. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future recall or issue field corrections related to our products due to manufacturing deficiencies, labeling errors or other safety or regulatory reasons. We cannot assure you that we will not in the future experience material losses due to product liability claims, lawsuits, product recalls or corrections. 33 Table of Contents As part of the Inamed acquisition, we assumed Inamed’s product liability risks, including any product liability for its past and present manufacturing of breast implant products. The manufacture and sale of breast implant products has been and continues to be the subject of a significant number of product liability claims due to allegations that the medical devices cause disease or result in complications and other health conditions due to rupture, deflation or other product failure. See Item 3 of Part I of this report, “Legal Proceedings” and Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements listed under Item 15 of Part IV of this report, “Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules,” for information concerning our current products liability litigation. Historically, other breast implant manufacturers that suffered such claims in the 1990’s were forced to cease operations or even to declare bankruptcy. Additionally, recent FDA marketing approval for our silicone breast implants requires that: • we monitor patients in our core study out to 10 years if there has been explantation without replacement; • patients in the core study receive magnetic resonance imaging tests, or MRIs, at seven and nine years; • we conduct a large, 10-year postapproval study; and • we conduct additional smaller studies, including a study aimed at ensuring patients are adequately informed about the risks of our silicone breast implants and that the format and content of patient labeling is adequate. We are seeking marketing approval for other silicone breast implants in the United States, and if we obtain this approval, it may similarly be subject to significant restrictions and requirements, including the need for a patient registry, follow up MRIs and substantial Phase IV clinical trial commitments. We also face a substantial risk of product liability claims from our eye care, neuromodulator, urology, skin care, obesity intervention and facial aesthetics products. Additionally, our pharmaceutical and medical device products may cause, or may appear to cause, serious adverse side effects or potentially dangerous drug interactions if misused, improperly prescribed, improperly implanted or based on faulty surgical technique. We are subject to adverse event reporting regulations that require us to report to the FDA or similar bodies in other countries if our products are associated with a death or serious injury. These adverse events, among others, could result in additional regulatory controls, such as the performance of costly post-approval clinical studies or revisions to our approved labeling, which could limit the indications or patient population for our products or could even lead to the withdrawal of a product from the market. Furthermore, any adverse publicity associated with such an event could cause consumers to seek alternatives to our products, which may cause our sales to decline, even if our products are ultimately determined not to have been the primary cause of the event. Negative publicity concerning the safety of our products may harm our sales, force us to withdraw products and cause a decline in our stock price. Physicians and potential and existing patients may have a number of concerns about the safety of our products, including Botox®, breast implants, eye care pharmaceuticals, urology pharmaceuticals, skin care products, obesity intervention products and facial dermal fillers, whether or not such concerns have a basis in generally accepted science or peer-reviewed scientific research. Negative publicity — whether accurate or inaccurate — about our products, based on, for example, news about Botox®, breast implant litigation or regulatory activities and developments, whether involving us or a competitor, or new government regulation, could materially reduce market acceptance of our products and could result in product withdrawals. For example, recent activities by an advocacy group requesting labeling changes for botulinum toxins marketed in the United States resulted in significant adverse media attention. Significant negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, whether or not these claims have a basis in scientific fact. Furthermore, adverse publicity associated with such an event could cause our stock price to decline or consumers to seek alternatives to our products, which may cause our sales to decline, and could lead to a further decline in our stock price, even if our products are ultimately determined not to have been the primary cause of the event. Health care initiatives and other third-party payor cost-containment pressures could cause us to sell our products at lower prices, resulting in decreased revenues. Some of our products are purchased or reimbursed by state and federal government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations, or HMOs, and managed care 34 Table of Contents organizations, or MCOs. Third-party payors increasingly challenge pharmaceutical and other medical device product pricing. There also continues to be a trend toward managed healthcare in the United States. Pricing pressures by third-party payors and the growth of organizations such as HMOs and MCOs could result in lower prices and/or a reduction in demand for our products. In addition, legislative and regulatory proposals and enactments to reform healthcare and government insurance programs, including the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, or DRA, and the hospital outpatient prospective payment system, or HOPPS, could significantly influence the manner in which pharmaceutical products and medical devices are prescribed and purchased. For example, effective January 1, 2006, the MMA established a new Medicare outpatient prescription drug benefit under Part D. The MMA also established a competitive acquisition program, or CAP, in which physicians who administer drugs in their offices are offered an option to acquire drugs covered under the Medicare Part B benefit from vendors who are selected in a competitive bidding process. Implementation of the CAP began in July 2006. Further, the DRA requires the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, the federal agency that both administers the Medicare program and administers and overseas the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, to amend certain formulas used to calculate pharmacy reimbursement and rebates under Medicaid. In July 2007, CMS issued a final rule that, among other things, clarifies and changes how drug manufacturers must calculate and report key pricing data under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. This data is used by CMS and state Medicaid agencies to calculate rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and to calculate the federal upper limits on cost-sharing for certain prescription drugs. In December 2007, following a judicial challenge brought by a national association of pharmacies, a federal judge ordered an injunction that prevents CMS from implementing its July rule. If CMS is ultimately permitted to implement its rule, changes could lead to reduced payments to pharmacies for certain pharmaceutical products. In addition and effective January 1, 2008, Medicare reduced reimbursement for separately payable physician-administered drugs under HOPPS, and may continue to reduce reimbursement in the future. These or other reimbursement reductions may make it financially impractical for hospitals to offer treatment, which could negatively affect our ability to sell our products in the hospital market. These and other cost containment measures and healthcare reforms could adversely affect our ability to sell our products. Furthermore, individual states have become increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access, and to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing. Legally-mandated price controls on payment amounts by third-party payors or other restrictions could negatively and materially impact our revenues and financial condition. We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most countries outside the United States. We expect there will continue to be federal and state laws and/or regulations, proposed and implemented, that could limit the amounts that foreign, federal and state governments will pay for health care products and services. The extent to which future legislation or regulations, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business remains uncertain. Such measures or other health care system reforms that are adopted could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully commercialize our products or could limit or eliminate our spending on development projects and affect our ultimate profitability. In addition, regional healthcare authorities and individual hospitals are increasingly using bidding procedures to determine what pharmaceutical and medical device products and which suppliers will be included in their prescription drug and other health care programs. This can reduce demand for our products or put pressure on our product pricing, which could negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Our ability to sell our products to United States hospitals depends in part on our relationships with group purchasing organizations, or GPOs. Many existing and potential customers for our products become members of GPOs. GPOs negotiate pricing arrangements and contracts, sometimes exclusive, with medical supply manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are made available to a GPO’s affiliated hospitals and other members. If we are not one of the providers selected by a GPO, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and if the GPO has negotiated a strict sole source, market share 35 Table of Contents compliance or bundling contract for another manufacturer’s products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the GPO for the duration of the contractual arrangement. Our failure to renew contracts with GPOs may cause us to lose market share and could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew these contracts at the current or substantially similar terms. If we are unable to keep our relationships and develop new relationships with GPOs, our competitive position would likely suffer. We are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rates, which could increase our costs and may cause our profitability to decline. We collect and pay a substantial portion of our sales and expenditures in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Therefore, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect our operating results. We cannot assure you that future exchange rate movements, inflation or other related factors will not have a material adverse effect on our sales or operating expenses. We are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our business is subject to certain risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include, among other things: • adverse changes in tariff and trade protection measures; • reductions in the reimbursement amounts we receive for our products from foreign governments and foreign insurance providers; • unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements, including quality standards and other certification requirements; • potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws; • differing labor regulations; • changing economic conditions in countries where our products are sold or manufactured or in other countries; • differing local product preferences and product requirements; • exchange rate risks; • restrictions on the repatriation of funds; • political unrest and hostilities; • product liability, intellectual property and other claims; • new export license requirements; • differing degrees of protection for intellectual property; and • difficulties in coordinating and managing foreign operations, including ensuring that foreign operations comply with foreign laws as well as U.S. laws applicable to U.S. companies with foreign operations, such as export laws and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Any of these factors, or any other international factors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we can successfully manage these risks or avoid their effects. The consolidation of drug wholesalers and other wholesaler actions could increase competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. We sell our pharmaceutical products primarily through wholesalers. These wholesale customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the United States. This distribution network is continuing to undergo significant consolidation. As a result, a smaller number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market. We expect that consolidation of drug wholesalers will increase competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. In addition, wholesalers may apply pricing pressure through fee-for-service arrangements, and their purchases may exceed customer demand, resulting in reduced wholesaler purchases in later quarters. We cannot assure you that we can manage these pressures or that wholesaler purchases will not decrease as a result of this potential excess buying. 36 Table of Contents Our failure to attract and retain key managerial, technical, selling and marketing personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success depends upon our retention of key managerial, technical, selling and marketing personnel. The loss of the services of key personnel might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and strategic objectives. We must continue to attract, train and retain managerial, technical, selling and marketing personnel. Competition for such highly skilled employees in our industry is high, and we cannot be certain that we will be successful in recruiting or retaining such personnel. We also believe that our success depends to a significant extent on the ability of our key personnel to operate effectively, both individually and as a group. If we are unable to identify, hire and integrate new employees in a timely and cost-effective manner, our operating results may suffer. We may acquire companies in the future and these acquisitions could disrupt our business. As part of our business strategy, we regularly consider and, as appropriate, make acquisitions of technologies, products and businesses that we believe are complementary to our business. Acquisitions typically entail many risks and could result in difficulties in integrating the operations, personnel, technologies and products of the companies acquired, some of which may result in significant charges to earnings. If we are unable to successfully integrate our acquisitions with our existing business, we may not obtain the advantages that the acquisitions were intended to create, which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, our ability to develop and introduce new products and the market price of our stock. In connection with acquisitions, we could experience disruption in our business or employee base, or key employees of companies that we acquire may seek employment elsewhere, including with our competitors. Furthermore, the products of companies we acquire may overlap with our products or those of our customers, creating conflicts with existing relationships or with other commitments that are detrimental to the integrated businesses. Uncertainties exist in integrating the business and operations of Inamed, Cornéal and Esprit into our own. We are currently integrating certain of Inamed’s, Cornéal’s and Esprit’s functions and operations into our own, although there can be no assurance that we will be successful in this endeavor. There are inherent challenges in integrating the operations that could result in a delay or the failure to achieve the anticipated synergies and, therefore, any potential cost savings and increases in earnings. Issues that must be addressed in integrating the operations of Inamed, Cornéal and Esprit into our own include, among other things: • conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the companies; • conforming information technology and accounting systems; • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; • consolidating sales and marketing operations; • retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; • retaining key employees; • identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; • minimizing the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; • coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; • managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company; and • making any necessary modifications to operating control standards to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. If we are not able to adequately address these challenges, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the integration of the companies. Actual cost and sales synergies, if achieved at all, may be lower than we expect and may take longer to achieve than we anticipate. 37 Table of Contents Compliance with the extensive government regulations to which we are subject is expensive and time consuming, and may result in the delay or cancellation of product sales, introductions or modifications. Extensive industry regulation has had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on our business, especially our product development and manufacturing capabilities. All companies that manufacture, market and distribute pharmaceuticals and medical devices, including us, are subject to extensive, complex, costly and evolving regulation by federal governmental authorities, principally by the FDA and the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, and similar foreign and state government agencies. Failure to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA, DEA and other U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies may subject a company to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including, among others, a refusal to approve a pending application to market a new product or a new indication for an existing product. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Controlled Substances Act and other domestic and foreign statutes and regulations govern or influence the research, testing, manufacturing, packing, labeling, storing, record keeping, safety, effectiveness, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of our products. Under certain of these regulations, we are subject to periodic inspection of our facilities, production processes and control operations and/or the testing of our products by the FDA, the DEA and other authorities, to confirm that we are in compliance with all applicable regulations, including FDA cGMP regulations with respect to drug and biologic products and the QSR with respect to medical device products. The FDA conducts pre-approval and post-approval reviews and plant inspections of us and our direct and indirect suppliers to determine whether our record keeping, production processes and controls, personnel and quality control are in compliance with the cGMPs, the QSR and other FDA regulations. We are also required to perform extensive audits of our vendors, contract laboratories and suppliers to ensure that they are compliant with these requirements. In addition, in order to commercialize our products or new indications for an existing product, we must demonstrate that the product or new indication is safe and effective, and that our and our suppliers’ manufacturing facilities are compliant with applicable regulations, to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory agencies. The process for obtaining governmental approval to manufacture and to commercialize pharmaceutical and medical device products is rigorous, typically takes many years and is costly, and we cannot predict the extent to which we may be affected by legislative and regulatory developments. We are dependent on receiving FDA and other governmental approvals prior to manufacturing, marketing and distributing our products. We may fail to obtain approval from the FDA or other governmental authorities for our product candidates, or we may experience delays in obtaining such approvals, due to varying interpretations of data or our failure to satisfy rigorous efficacy, safety and manufacturing quality standards. Consequently, there is always a risk that the FDA or other applicable governmental authorities will not approve our products, or will take post-approval action limiting or revoking our ability to sell our products, or that the rate, timing and cost of such approvals will adversely affect our product introduction plans, results of operations and stock price. Despite the time and expense exerted, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. Even after we obtain regulatory approval or clearance for a product candidate or new indication, we are subject to extensive regulation, including ongoing compliance with the FDA’s cGMP and QSR regulations, completion of post-marketing clinical studies mandated by the FDA, and compliance with regulations relating to labeling, advertising, marketing and promotion. In addition, we are subject to adverse event reporting regulations that require us to report to the FDA if our products are associated with a death or serious injury. If we or any third party that we involve in the testing, packing, manufacture, labeling, marketing and distribution of our products fail to comply with any such regulations, we may be subject to, among other things, warning letters, product seizures, recalls, fines or other civil penalties, injunctions, suspension or revocation of approvals, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecution. The FDA recently has increased its enforcement activities related to the advertising and promotion of pharmaceutical, biological and medical device products. In particular, the FDA has expressed concern regarding the pharmaceutical and medical device industry’s compliance with the agency’s regulations and guidance governing direct-to-consumer advertising, and has increased its scrutiny of such promotional materials. For example, we received a warning letter from the FDA in May 2007 stating that we submitted a false and misleading journal advertisement for Acular LS®. The FDA may limit or, with respect to certain products, terminate our dissemination of direct-to-consumer advertisements in the future, which could cause sales of those products to decline. Physicians 38 Table of Contents may prescribe pharmaceutical and biologic products, and utilize medical device products for uses that are not described in a product’s labeling or differ from those tested by us and approved by the FDA. While such “off-label” uses are common and the FDA does not regulate a physician’s choice of treatment, the FDA does restrict a manufacturer’s communications on the subject of off-label use. Companies cannot actively promote FDA-approved pharmaceutical, biologic or medical device products for off-label uses, but they may disseminate to physicians articles published in peer-reviewed journals. To the extent allowed by law, we disseminate peer-reviewed articles on our products to targeted physicians. If, however, our promotional activities fail to comply with the FDA’s or another regulatory body’s regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, the FDA or another enforcement agency. From time to time, legislative or regulatory proposals are introduced that could alter the review and approval process relating to our products. It is possible that the FDA or other governmental authorities will issue additional regulations further restricting the sale of our present or proposed products. Any change in legislation or regulations that govern the review and approval process relating to our current and future products could make it more difficult and costly to obtain approval for new products, or to produce, market and distribute existing products. If we market products in a manner that violates health care fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. The Federal health care program Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed health care programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical or medical device manufacturers, on the one hand, and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers, on the other hand. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in off-label promotion that caused claims to be submitted to Medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the Medicaid Rebate Program. HIPAA created two new federal crimes: health care fraud, and false statements relating to health care matters. The health care fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program, including private payors. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to these federal laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. In addition, some states have laws that require pharmaceutical companies to adopt comprehensive compliance programs. For example, under California law, pharmaceutical companies must comply with both the April 2003 Office of Inspector General Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and the July 2002 PhRMA Code on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals. We have adopted and implemented a compliance program which we believe satisfies the requirements of these laws. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. For example, we and several other 39 Table of Contents pharmaceutical companies are currently subject to suits by governmental entities in several jurisdictions, including Erie, Oswego and Schenectady Counties in New York and in Alabama alleging that we and these other companies, through promotional, discounting and pricing practices, reported false and inflated average wholesale prices or wholesale acquisition costs and failed to report best prices as required by federal and state rebate statutes, resulting in the plaintiffs overpaying for certain medications. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or other similar governmental regulations to which we are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. These laws are complex and often difficult to interpret and apply, and we may be required in the future to alter our practices to be in compliance. Allegations that we have violated these laws could disrupt our business and subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions. Violations are punishable by severe criminal penalties, including fines or imprisonment. In addition, violations may result in civil penalties, including fines, loss of our export licenses, suspension of our ability to do business with the federal government, denial of government reimbursement for our products and exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs. These penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our collaborative partners do not perform, we will be unable to develop and market products as anticipated. We have entered into collaborative arrangements with third parties to develop and market certain products, including our arrangement with GlaxoSmithKline to market Botox® in Japan and China and certain other products in the United States, our arrangement with Indevus to market Sanctura XRtm in the United States, our co-promotion agreement with Covidien to promote the Lap-Band® System in the United States, our agreement with Clinique to develop, market and distribute a new physician dispensed skin care line for sale in the United States and our agreement with Stiefel to co-promote our current Tazorac® products to dermatologists and pediatricians and to develop and commercialize new products that include tazarotene. We cannot assure you that these collaborations will be successful, lead to additional sales of our products or lead to the creation of additional products. If we fail to maintain our existing collaborative arrangements or fail to enter into additional collaborative arrangements, our licensing revenues and/or the number of products from which we could receive future revenues could decline. Our dependence on collaborative arrangements with third parties subjects us to a number of risks. These collaborative arrangements may not be on terms favorable to us. Agreements with collaborative partners typically allow partners significant discretion in marketing our products or electing whether or not to pursue any of the planned activities. We cannot fully control the amount and timing of resources our collaborative partners may devote to products based on the collaboration, and our partners may choose to pursue alternative products to the detriment of our collaboration. In addition, our partners may not perform their obligations as expected. Business combinations, significant changes in a collaborative partner’s business strategy, or its access to financial resources may adversely affect a partner’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations. Moreover, we could become involved in disputes with our partners, which could lead to delays or termination of the collaborations and time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. Even if we fulfill our obligations under a collaborative agreement, our partner can terminate the agreement under certain circumstances. If any collaborative partners were to terminate or breach our agreements with them, or otherwise fail to complete their obligations in a timely manner, we could be materially and adversely affected. 40 Table of Contents Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in or interpretations of tax laws, including pending tax law changes, changes in our manufacturing activities and changes in our future levels of research and development spending. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other state and foreign tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our estimated income tax liabilities. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our provision for income taxes and estimated income tax liabilities. Changes in applicable tax laws may adversely affect sales or the profitability of Botox®, Botox® Cosmetic, our dermal fillers or breast implants. Because Botox® and Botox® Cosmetic are pharmaceutical products, we generally do not collect or pay state sales or other tax on sales of Botox® or Botox® Cosmetic. We could be required to collect and pay state sales or other tax associated with prior, current or future years on sales of Botox® or Botox® Cosmetic, our dermal fillers or breast implants. In addition to any retroactive taxes and corresponding interest and penalties that could be assessed, if we were required to collect or pay state sales or other tax associated with current or future years on sales of Botox®, Botox® Cosmetic, our dermal fillers or breast implants, our sales of, or our profitability from, Botox®, Botox® Cosmetic, our dermal fillers or breast implants could be adversely affected due to the increased cost associated with those products. The terms of our debt agreements impose many restrictions on us. Failure to comply with these restrictions could result in acceleration of our substantial debt. Were this to occur, we might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient cash to pay our accelerated indebtedness. Our total indebtedness as of December 31, 2007 was approximately $1,629.9 million. This indebtedness may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which it operates and, consequently, place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in new business activities. For example, our debt agreements restrict our ability to, among other things: • incur liens or engage in sale lease-back transactions; and • engage in consolidations, mergers and asset sales. In addition, our debt agreements include financial covenants that we maintain certain financial ratios. As a result of these covenants and ratios, we have certain limitations on the manner in which we can conduct our business, and we may be restricted from engaging in favorable business activities or financing future operations or capital needs. Accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business. Failure to comply with the financial covenants or to maintain the financial ratios contained in our debt agreements could result in an event of default that could trigger acceleration of our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that our future operating results will be sufficient to ensure compliance with the covenants in our debt agreements or to remedy any such default. In addition, in the event of any default and related acceleration of obligations, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments. Litigation may harm our business or otherwise distract our management. Substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur large expenditures and distract our management. For example, lawsuits by employees, stockholders, customers or competitors could be very costly and substantially disrupt our business. Disputes from time to time with such companies or individuals are not uncommon, and we cannot assure you that that we will always be able to resolve such disputes out of court or on terms favorable to us. 41 Table of Contents Our publicly-filed SEC reports are reviewed by the SEC from time to time and any significant changes required as a result of any such review may result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. The reports of publicly-traded companies are subject to review by the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time for the purpose of assisting companies in complying with applicable disclosure requirements and to enhance the overall effectiveness of companies’ public filings, and comprehensive reviews of such reports are now required at least every three years under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. SEC reviews may be initiated at any time. While we believe that our previously filed SEC reports comply, and we intend that all future reports will comply in all material respects with the published rules and regulations of the SEC, we could be required to modify or reformulate information contained in prior filings as a result of an SEC review. Any modification or reformulation of information contained in such reports could be significant and could result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 