Risk Factors The statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that relate to future plans, events or performance are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding our future prospects. These statements may be identified by terms and phrases such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “estimate,” “expect,” “continue,” “should,” “could,” “may,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” “will” and similar expressions and relate to future events and occurrences. Actual results could differ materially due to a variety of factors and the other risks described in this Annual Report and the other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements include, but are not limited to, the following items discussed below. We undertake no duty to revise or update the items discussed below. You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties we describe below and all of the other information in this report. The risks and uncertainties we describe below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are currently unaware or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. Our business is cyclical and is affected by global economic conditions, particularly those affecting steel construction and fabrication-related activities, as well as other factors that are outside of our control, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The success of our business is directly affected by general economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. In the fourth quarter of 2008, global economic conditions, including steel production, began to deteriorate and severely deteriorated throughout much of 2009, with global steel production declining 50% to 60% during 2009 from the 2008 levels. Our business has been and continues to be adversely impacted by such conditions. The end users of our products are engaged in commercial construction, steel shipbuilding, oil and gas industry related construction and maintenance, and general manufacturing. The demand for our products, and therefore the results of our operations, are related to the level of production in these end-user industries. Specifically, our sales 9 Table of Contents volumes are closely tied to the levels of steel related construction and fabrication activities. Global steel production and shipments declined precipitously in late 2008 and in 2009, which caused the Company to suffer dramatic decreases in sales volumes in late 2008 and throughout 2009. The duration and extent of this reduced demand, along with further potential declines in demand for our products is uncertain. We believe the volatility in these global economic factors could have further adverse impacts on our operating results and financial condition. Our future operating results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the prices and availability of raw materials. We purchase a large amount of commodity raw materials, particularly copper, brass and steel. At times, pricing and supply can be volatile due to a number of factors beyond our control, including global demand, general economic and political conditions, mine closures and labor unrest in various countries, activities in the financial commodity markets, labor costs, competition, import duties and tariffs and currency exchange rates. This volatility can significantly affect our raw material costs. For example, as of July 2008, the cost of copper and steel was $4.25 per pound and $0.40 per pound, respectively, declined to $1.35 per pound and $0.24 per pound, respectively, in December 2008, and increased to $3.15 per pound and $0.30 per pound, respectively, by December 2009. An environment of volatile raw material prices, competitive conditions and declining economic conditions can adversely affect our profitability if we fail to adjust our sales prices appropriately to recover the change in the costs of materials. The timing of and the extent to which we will realize changes in material costs and the impact on our profits are uncertain. Fixed price purchase commitments typically exist with respect to a portion of our material purchases for purchase volumes of three to six months. To the extent that our arrangements to lock in supplier costs do not adequately keep in check cost increases and we are unable to pass on any price increases to our customers, our profitability could be adversely affected. Certain of the raw materials used in our hardfacing products within our filler metal product line, such as cobalt and chromium, are available primarily from sources outside the United States. Restrictions in the supply of cobalt, chromium and other raw materials could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, certain of our customers rely heavily on raw materials, and fluctuations in prices of raw materials for these customers could negatively affect their operations and orders for our products and, as a result, our financial performance. Further dramatic declines in global economic conditions may also create hardships for our suppliers and potentially disrupt their supply of raw materials to us. Our international sales and operations face special risks and are subject to various operational and financial developments and restrictions that may adversely impact our sales and earnings. Approximately one-half of our consolidated net sales are derived from exports from the U.S. and from our international operations located in Australia, Canada, China, England, Italy, Malaysia and Mexico. International operations are subject to a number of special risks including: • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • differing protections of intellectual property; • trade barriers; regional economic uncertainty; • labor unrest; • governmental currency exchange controls; • differing (and possibly more stringent) labor regulation; • governmental expropriation; • domestic and foreign customs, tariffs and taxes; • current and changing regulatory environments; • difficulty in obtaining distribution support; 10 Table of Contents • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • differences in the availability and terms of financing; and • political instability and unrest. Our products are used primarily in metal fabrication operations to cut and join metal parts. Certain metal fabrication operations, as well as manufacturing operations generally, are moving from the United States to international locations where labor costs are lower. Selling products into international markets and maintaining and expanding international operations require significant coordination, capital and resources. If we fail to address these developments, we may be unable to grow or maintain our sales and profitability. Also, in some foreign jurisdictions, we may be subject to laws that limit the right and ability of entities organized or operating in those jurisdictions to pay dividends or remit earnings to affiliated companies unless specified conditions are met. These factors may adversely affect our financial condition. The Company has initiated a comprehensive review of its compliance with foreign and U.S. duties requirements in light of the assessments by a foreign jurisdiction in the third quarter of 2009. It is premature to assess the findings of this review but management believes the ultimate resolution of the compliance review will not have a material effect on the Company’s business or financial condition. We are subject to currency fluctuations and face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. We sell our products to distributors located in approximately 100 countries. During both years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, approximately 44% of our consolidated sales were derived from markets outside the U.S. Approximately one-half of these sales are U.S. dollar denominated sales of products manufactured in the U.S. and exported to foreign customers. Strengthening of the U.S. dollar exchange rate serves to increase the cost for foreign purchasers and may adversely affect our sales. For our operations conducted in foreign countries, transactions are typically denominated in various foreign currencies. The Australian dollar represents approximately 20% of our international sales. The costs of our operations in these foreign locations are also denominated in those local currencies. Because our financial statements are stated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our reported financial results. In addition, some sale transactions pose foreign currency exchange settlement risks. Our Australian operations currently maintain 60 to 90 day forward purchase commitments for U.S. dollars in place to reduce the risk of an adverse currency exchange movement in connection with U.S. denominated materials purchases. Currency fluctuations have affected our reported financial performance in the past and will affect our reported financial performance in the future. We also face risks arising from the imposition of currency exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or operations located or doing business in a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. Actions of this nature, if they occur or continue for significant periods of time, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Sales of our common stock may result in a “change of control” under the Indenture, in which case, we may be required to repurchase the Senior Subordinated Notes, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Upon a change of control, as defined in the Indenture for the Senior Subordinated Notes, each holder of our Senior Subordinated Notes has the right to require us to purchase the Senior Subordinated Notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the principal, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Under the Indenture, a “change of control” occurs if: • any person, as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, other than Angelo, Gordon & Co., L.P. and its affiliates, is or becomes the direct or indirect beneficial owner of 11 Table of Contents more than 35% of the total voting power of our capital stock then outstanding and entitled to vote in the election of our directors, and Angelo, Gordon & Co., L.P. beneficially owns a lesser percentage of the total voting power of our voting capital stock than the acquiring person and does not have the right or ability by voting power, contract or otherwise, to elect or designate for election a majority of our board of directors; • individuals who constitute our Board of Directors cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors then in office; • the Company adopts a plan of liquidation or dissolution; or • the Company merges or consolidates with or into another person or sells all or substantially all its assets, except (A) where the survivor or transferee is controlled by Angelo, Gordon & Co., L.P. or (B) for a transaction following which (i) in the case of a merger or consolidation, holders of securities that represented 100% of the Company’s voting capital stock immediately prior to the transaction (or other securities into which such securities are converted as part of the transaction) own directly or indirectly at least a majority of the voting power of the voting capital stock of the surviving person immediately after such transaction and (ii) in the case of a sale of assets transaction, each transferee becomes an obligor in respect of the Senior Subordinated Notes and a subsidiary of the transferor of such assets. The Indenture defines “beneficial ownership” to include all shares that a person has the right to acquire either immediately or with the passage of time. As of December 31, 2009, Angelo, Gordon & Co., L.P. beneficially owned 33.2% of our common stock, which it holds for the account of its investment advisory clients. If some or all of the shares owned by our principal stockholder are sold to one of our existing stockholders, it is possible that, following the sale, the purchaser would own more than 35% of our common stock. If any of the holders of our Senior Subordinated Notes exercises its redemption rights, we may have insufficient working capital for operations or capital expenditures. In addition, we may not have sufficient financial resources to purchase all of the Senior Subordinated Notes. If we are unable to satisfy our payment obligations under the Senior Subordinated Notes, we may be in default under our Indenture, which, if not waived, would result in the acceleration of our debt obligations and the exercise of remedies under the Working Capital Facility and the Second Lien Facility, which would have a material adverse impact on our ability to operate our business and to make payments under our debt instruments. Sales of our common stock may result in a “change of control” under our credit facility agreements, which constitutes an event of default under the agreements, could result in the acceleration of our debt obligations under those agreements and, absent a waiver of this default, would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Under the terms of our credit facility agreements, any of the following events is a “change of control”: • any person or group of persons, within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, other than Angelo, Gordon & Co., L.P. or the holders of our Senior Subordinated Notes acquires beneficial ownership of 30% or more of our issued and outstanding shares of stock; • during any period of 12 consecutive calendar months, individuals who at the beginning of the period constituted our board of directors, together with any new directors elected or nominated for election by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason other than death or disability to constitute a majority of the directors then in office; or • a “change of control” as defined in the Indenture for our Senior Subordinated Notes. If some or all of the shares beneficially owned by Angelo Gordon & Co., L.P. are sold to one or more of our existing or new stockholders, it is possible that, following the sale, the purchaser would own more than 30% of our common stock. This would constitute an event of default under our credit facility agreements, which, if not waived, would result in the exercise of remedies under these facilities, including the acceleration of our debt obligations. This acceleration, in turn, would also constitute an event of default under the Indenture for the Senior Subordinated 12 Table of Contents Notes. An event of default under our credit facility agreements, if not waived, would have a material adverse impact on our ability to operate our business and to make payments under our debt instruments. The sale of shares by our principal stockholder or a combination of other stockholders may limit our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for federal and state income tax purposes, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. As of December 31, 2009, we had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $152 million from the years 1998 through 2009 available to offset future federal and state taxable income. Our net operating loss carryforwards will expire between the years 2018 and 2029. Under Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its net operating losses to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of holders of five percent or more of the corporation’s stock increases by more than fifty (50) percentage points over an applicable three-year period. The amount of the annual limitation generally is equal to the value of the stock of the corporation immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the adjusted federal long-term tax-exempt rate. Our net operating loss carryforwards are not currently limited under Section 382. We expect that sales of our common stock by our principal stockholder will result in an ownership change or will significantly increase the likelihood that an ownership change will occur that will limit our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards under Section 382. It is also possible that an ownership change may result from sales of our common stock by other owners of five percent or more of the shares of our common stock, or the acquisition of five percent or more of the shares of our common stock by other persons (or groups of persons). We have no control over our stockholders’ ability to buy or sell their shares and therefore cannot prevent an ownership change from occurring. We also cannot predict the extent to which our net operating loss carryforwards will be limited or the ultimate impact of these limitations, which will depend on, among other things: the identity of any stockholders who buy or sell our common stock, the timing of these transactions, the number of shares they buy or sell, and our future taxable income. Limitations on our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income under Section 382 could reduce the benefit of our net operating loss carryforwards by requiring us to pay federal and state income taxes earlier than we otherwise would have had such a change not occurred, and causing part of our net operating loss carryforwards to expire without our having fully utilized them. Limitations under Section 382 could also limit our use of other credits, such as foreign tax credits, in future years. Limitations resulting from an ownership change under Section 382 could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. We rely in large part on independent distributors for sales of our products and the continued consolidation of distributors and loss of key distributors could materially harm our business. We depend on more than 2,000 independent distributors to sell our products and provide service and after-market support to our ultimate customers. Distributors play a significant role in determining which of our products are stocked at their branch locations and the prices at which they are sold, which impacts how accessible our products are to end users of our products. Almost all of the distributors with whom we do business offer competing products and services to end users. There is a trend toward consolidation of these distributors, which has been escalating in recent years. In 2009, one distributor represented 11% of our 2009 sales and our top five distributors comprised 27% of our global net sales in 2009 and 2008. Recent economic events could undermine the economic viability of some of our customers. These events could also cause our competitors to introduce new economic inducements and pricing arrangements that may cause our distributors to increase purchases from our competitors and reduce purchases from us. The continued consolidation of these distributors, the loss of certain key distributors, or an increase in the distributors’ sales of our competitors’ products to end users could materially reduce our sales and earnings. 13 Table of Contents Our business is highly competitive, and increased competition could reduce our sales, earnings and profitability. We offer products in highly competitive markets. We compete on the performance, functionality, price, brand recognition, customer service, and support and availability of our products. We compete with companies of various sizes, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we do. Increased competition could force us to lower our prices or to offer additional product features or services at a higher cost to us, which could reduce our sales and net earnings. The greater financial resources of certain of our competitors may enable them to commit larger amounts of capital in response to changing market conditions. Certain competitors may also have the ability to develop product innovations that could put us at a disadvantage. In addition, some of our competitors have achieved substantially more market penetration in certain segments of those markets in which we operate. If we are unable to compete successfully against other manufacturers in our marketplace, we could lose customers, and our sales may decline. There can also be no assurance that customers will continue to regard our products favorably, that we will be able to develop new products that appeal to customers, that we will be able to improve or maintain our profit margins or that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in maintaining or increasing our market share. We may not be able to successfully implement our cost-reduction initiatives, which may limit our competitiveness and profitability. We have undertaken and will continue to undertake cost-reduction initiatives in response to global competitive conditions. These include our ongoing continuous improvement initiatives, redesigning products and manufacturing processes, re-evaluating the location of certain manufacturing operations and the sourcing of vendor purchased components. There can be no assurance that these initiatives will be beneficial to us in providing the anticipated cost savings from such activities. The failure of our cost-reduction efforts to yield sufficient cost reductions may have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to enhance existing products and develop new products may adversely impact our financial results. Our financial and strategic performance depends partially on providing new and enhanced products to the global marketplace. We may not be able to develop or acquire innovative products or otherwise obtain intellectual property in a timely and effective manner in order to maintain and grow our position in global markets. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that new products or product improvements will be met with customer acceptance or contribute positively to our financial results. We may not be able to continue to support the levels of research and development activities and expenditures necessary to improve and expand our products. Competitors may be able to direct more capital and other resources to new or emerging technologies to respond to changes in customer requirements. If we cannot adequately enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position will suffer and we may incur significant additional costs. We own a number of patents, trademarks and licenses related to our products and rights under patents owned by others. While no single patent, trademark or license is material to the operation of our business as a whole, our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights in the U.S. and in foreign countries is critical to our competitive position and our ability to continue to bring new and enhanced products to the marketplace. We rely upon patent, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in foreign countries, as well as agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other third parties, to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights. Third parties may challenge, infringe upon or otherwise circumvent our intellectual property rights, which could adversely impact our competitive position. Further, the enforceability of our intellectual property rights in various foreign countries is uncertain. Accordingly, in certain countries, we may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could harm our competitive position. Third parties also may claim that we or our customers are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Defending those claims and contesting the validity of third parties’ asserted intellectual property rights can be time-consuming and costly. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected 14 Table of Contents products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing, marketing or selling certain of our products. If our consolidated indebtedness increases or EBITDA decreases, our interest cost under our Senior Subordinated Notes may increase, which would negatively impact our results. The interest cost for our Senior Subordinated Notes is subject to change quarterly based upon our consolidated leverage ratio determined on the relationship of debt to the trailing four quarters EBITDA, as defined. Under the terms of the Indenture for the Senior Subordinated Notes, we are required to pay additional Special Interest. The rate of Special Interest increases to a maximum of 2.75% if our consolidated leverage ratio increases to 7.0. The rate of Special Interest declines incrementally to 0% if our consolidated leverage ratio is less than 3.0. The rate of Special Interest increases to 2.25% effective beginning January 1, 2010, based on our consolidated leverage ratio that is above 6.5 as of September 30, 2009. The rate will continue at this level through June 30, 2010 based on the consolidated leverage ratio as of December 31, 2009. We can give no assurance that rate of special interest will not increase after June 30, 2010. We are subject to risks caused by changes in interest rates. Changes in benchmark interest rates (i.e. LIBOR) will impact the interest cost associated with our variable interest rate debt. Our variable rate debt includes the borrowings under our Working Capital Facility and our Second Lien Facility. Changes in interest rates would affect our cost of future borrowings. Significant increases in interest rates would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with the financial covenants in our debt instruments, our ability to obtain financing and make payments under our debt instruments may be adversely impacted. Our credit facility agreements require compliance with certain financial covenants. These financial covenants have been amended on several occasions and most recently in February 2010. While we believe that we will be able to comply with our financial covenants in future periods, failure to do so would, unless the covenants were further amended or waived, result in defaults under our credit agreements. An event of default under our credit agreements, if not waived, could result in the acceleration of these debt obligations and, consequently, our debt obligations under our Senior Subordinated Notes. Such acceleration could result in exercise of remedies by our creditors, which could have a material adverse impact on our ability to operate our business and to make payments under our debt instruments. In addition, an event of default under the credit facilities, such as the failure to maintain the applicable required financial ratios, would prevent additional borrowing under our credit agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and to make payments under our debt instruments. The Company is subject to risks caused by disruptions in the credit markets. Our Working Capital Facility is provided under an agreement with G.E. Capital Corporation, which matures in June 2012. Our operations are funded through daily borrowings and repayments from and to our lender under the Working Capital Facility. The temporary or permanent loss of the use of the Working Capital Facility or the inability to replace this facility when it expires would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Credit availability for our suppliers and customers has been reduced due to the disruptions in the credit markets. This decreased availability for our customers and suppliers may have an adverse effect on the demand for our products, the collection of our accounts receivable and our ability to timely fulfill our commitments. The actual or anticipated sale of shares of our common stock may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. During 2008, the Company registered 4,496,555 shares of our common stock on behalf of our principal stockholder, and 1,500,000 shares of our common stock for future offer and sale by the Company. During 2008, the Securities and Exchange Commission declared effective the Company’s shelf registration statement covering 5,996,555 shares of our common stock. Of the 5,996,555 shares, 4,496,555 were registered by the Company on behalf of Angelo, Gordon & Co., L.P., and 1,500,000 shares were registered for future offer and 15 Table of Contents sale by the Company. As of December 31, 2009, Angelo, Gordon & Co., L.P. beneficially owned 33.2% of our common stock, which it holds for the account of investment advisory clients of Angelo, Gordon & Co., L.P. Other investment advisory clients of Angelo, Gordon & Co., L.P. are the sole lenders under our Second Lien Facility, and also own a total of $24.2 million principal amount of our Senior Subordinated Notes. The Company and Angelo, Gordon & Co., L.P. may offer for sale any or all of their respective registered shares from time to time prior to the expiration of the shelf registration statement. The sale of these or other shares of our common stock through open market transactions or other means may, depending upon the timing of the sales, depress the market price of our common stock. Moreover, actual or anticipated downward pressure on the market price of our common stock due to actual or anticipated sales of our common stock could cause some institutions or individuals to engage in short sales of our common stock, which may itself cause the market price of our common stock to decline. If our relationships with our employees were to deteriorate, we could be adversely affected. Currently, in our U.S. operations (where none of our employees is represented by a labor union) and in our foreign operations (where the majority of our employees are represented by labor unions), we have maintained a positive working environment. Although we focus on maintaining a productive relationship with our employees, we cannot ensure that unions, particularly in the United States, will not attempt to organize our employees or that we will not be subject to work stoppages, strikes or other types of conflicts with our employees or organized labor in the future. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and serve our customers and could materially impair our relationships with key customers and suppliers, which could damage our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to retain and hire key employees, we could be adversely affected. Our ability to provide high-quality products and services for our customers and to manage the complexity of our business is dependent on our ability to retain and to attract skilled personnel in the areas of product engineering, manufacturing, sales and finance. Our businesses rely heavily on key personnel in the engineering, design, formulation and manufacturing of our products. Our success is also dependent on the management and leadership skills of our senior management team. As with all of our employees, we focus on maintaining a productive relationship with our key personnel. However, we cannot ensure that our employees will remain with us indefinitely. The loss of a key employee and the inability to find an adequate replacement could materially impair our relationship with key customers and suppliers, which could damage our business, results of operations and financial condition. Liabilities relating to litigation alleging manganese induced illness could reduce our profitability and impair our financial condition. We are a defendant in many cases alleging manganese induced illness. Manganese is an essential element of steel and contained in all welding filler metals. We are one of a large number of defendants in lawsuits filed in the U.S. The claimants allege that exposure to manganese contained in the welding filler metals caused them to develop adverse neurological conditions, including a condition known as manganism. The aggregate long-term impact of the manganese loss contingencies on operating cash flows and financial condition is difficult to assess, particularly because claims are in many different stages of development. While we have contested and intend to continue to contest these lawsuits vigorously, there are several risks and uncertainties that may affect our liability for personal claims relating to exposure to manganese, including the possibility that our litigation experience changes overall. An adverse change from our litigation experience to date could materially diminish our profitability and impair our financial condition. Our products involve risks of personal injury and property damage, which expose us to potential liability. Our business exposes us to possible claims for personal injury or death and property damage resulting from the products that we sell. We maintain insurance for loss (excluding attorneys’ fees and expenses) through a combination of self-insurance retentions and excess insurance coverage. We are not insured against punitive 16 Table of Contents damage awards and we are not currently insured for liability from manganese-induced illness. We monitor claims and potential claims of which we become aware and establish reserves for the self- insurance amounts based on our liability estimates for such claims. We cannot give any assurance that existing or future claims will not exceed our estimates for self-insurance or the amount of our excess insurance coverage. In addition, we cannot give any assurance that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms or that our insurers would not require us to increase our self-insurance amounts. Claims brought against us that are not covered by insurance or that result in recoveries in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, despite any insurance coverage, any accident or incident involving our products could negatively affect our reputation among customers, suppliers, lenders, investors and the public. This may make it more difficult for us to operate our business and compete effectively. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations and may incur costs that have a material adverse effect on our financial condition as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. Our operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the use, management and disposal of hazardous materials resulting from the manufacturing process, and employee health and safety. As an owner and operator of real property and a generator of hazardous waste, we may also be subject to liability for the remediation of contaminated sites. While we are not currently aware of any outstanding material claims or obligations, we could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, and third-party property damage or personal injury claims, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws or noncompliance with environmental permits required at our facilities. Contaminants have been detected at some of our present and former sites. In addition, we have been named as a potentially responsible party at certain Superfund sites. While we are not currently aware of any contaminated or Superfund sites as to which material outstanding claims or obligations exist, the discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations at these or other sites could result in significant liability. In addition, the ultimate costs under environmental laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to predict. Liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act and analogous state laws, can be imposed retroactively and without regard to fault. Further, one responsible party could be held liable for all costs at a site. Thus, we may incur material liabilities under existing environmental laws and regulations or environmental laws and regulations that may be adopted in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 