Item 1A. Risk Factors Our businesses are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties which are described below. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not described or not known to management of the Company may also impair business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We could have unfavorable workers’ compensation claim experiences. The PEOs calculate reserves for workers’ compensation claims by estimating unpaid losses and loss expenses with respect to claims occurring on or before the balance sheet date, and in certain instances, we carry high deductibles on these policies. Such estimates include provisions for reported claims and provisions for incurred-but-not-reported claims. The estimates of unpaid losses are established and continually reviewed by the Company using a variety of statistical and analytical techniques. Reserve estimates reflect past claims experience, currently known factors and trends and estimates of future claim trends. We cannot be certain that future claims will be consistent with past experience. We could face additional liability for worksite employee payroll and benefits costs. Under our customer service agreements, we become a co-employer of worksite employees and assume the obligations to pay the salaries, wages and related benefits costs and payroll taxes of such worksite employees. Our obligations include responsibility for: §payment of the salaries and wages for work performed by worksite employees, regardless of whether the client timely pays us the associated service fee; and §providing benefits to worksite employees even if our costs to provide such benefits exceed the fees the client pays us. If a client does not pay us, or if the costs of benefits we provide to worksite employees exceed the fees a client pays us, our ultimate liability for worksite employee payroll and benefits costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We may face operational challenges as a result of changes in federal, state and local regulations. As a major employer, our operations are affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to labor, tax and employment matters. By entering into a co-employer relationship with employees of our clients, we assume certain obligations and responsibilities of an employer under these laws. However, many of these laws (such as ERISA and federal and state employment tax laws) do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of non-traditional employers such as PEOs, and the definition of “employer” under these laws is not uniform. In addition, some of the states in which we operate have not addressed the PEO relationship for purposes of compliance with applicable state laws governing the employer/employee relationship. Any adverse application of these other federal or state laws to the PEO relationship with our worksite employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. However, due to the strong legislative efforts of the National Association of Professional Employer Organizations (NAPEO), much of this risk is being mitigated, as NAPEO has put in place in many states, via legislation, regulations that satisfy most state legislatures. These self-imposed industry regulations also help to clarify or define the PEO co-employment relationship in various areas of state employment law and have greatly reduced the risk of legislative change negatively affecting PEOs at the state level. While some states do not explicitly regulate PEOs, many states have passed or may be considering passing laws that have licensing or registration requirements for PEOs. Such laws vary from state to state, but generally provide for monitoring the fiscal responsibility of PEOs, and in some cases codify and clarify the co-employment relationship for unemployment, workers’ compensation and other purposes under state law. While we generally support licensing regulation because it serves to validate the PEO relationship, we typically satisfy licensing requirements or other applicable regulations for the states we currently operate in. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain licenses in all states. We may face additional liabilities as a result of increases in unemployment tax rates and taxable wage thresholds. We record our state unemployment tax expense based on taxable wages and tax rates assigned by each state. State unemployment tax rates and taxable wage thresholds vary by state and are determined, in part, based on prior years’ compensation experience in each state. Should our claim experience increase, our unemployment tax rates could increase. In addition, states have the ability under law to increase unemployment tax rates and taxable wage thresholds to cover deficiencies in the unemployment tax fund. Some states have implemented retroactive cost increases. Some client contractual arrangements limit our ability to incorporate such increases into service fees, which could result in a delay before such increases could be reflected in service fees. 7 Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairments. When we acquire a business, we record goodwill equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. FASB ASC 350, “Intangibles - Goodwill and Other” which provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead must be assessed at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives should continue to be amortized over their useful lives. ASC 350 also provides specific guidance for the assessment of goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. ASC 350 requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. We perform our impairment assessment annually. Future impairments, if any, will be recognized as operating expenses. We may not be able to successfully achieve the expected benefits of acquisitions, which expose us to risks associated with these transactions. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions or investments in or engage in strategic partnering relationships with other companies or technologies. We may not be able to successfully achieve expected benefits. Additionally, we may be exposed to factors including but not limited to unanticipated contingent liabilities, additional expenses, loss of key employees or customers, or other contingencies consistent with acquisition risks, which ultimately could result in significantly decreased earnings and material and adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The departure of key personnel could disrupt our business, and few of our key personnel have employment contracts requiring a service commitment. We depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and on the senior management of the businesses we acquire. Although we have entered into an employment agreement with each of our executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not carry key-person life insurance on some key employees, including our majority shareholder that guarantees certain debt obligations. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. In the past we have reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that, if we do not substantially remedy, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Certain businesses we have acquired may have had limited infrastructure and systems of internal controls. Performing assessments of internal controls, implementing necessary changes, and maintaining an effective internal controls process is costly and requires considerable management attention, particularly in the case of newly acquired entities. Internal control systems are designed in part upon assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and all such systems, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. We also cannot assure that we will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls will not be discovered in the future. Any failure to remediate any future material weaknesses or implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements or other public disclosures. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and require significant management time and attention. As a public company we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules of the NYSE Amex. The requirements of these rules and regulations have increased, and may further increase in the future, our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time consuming or costly and may also place undue strain on our systems and resources. The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, and internal controls over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight are required. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified independent members of our Board of Directors and qualified members of our management team. 8 The financial markets have recently experienced significant turmoil which may negatively impact our liquidity, our ability to obtain financing and our ability to process transactions through the banking system. Our liquidity and our ability to obtain financing may be negatively impacted if one of our Lenders holding our letters of credit, or another financial institution, suffers liquidity issues or ceases operations. In such an event, we would be forced to find other sources for our letters of credit that were acceptable to our vendors. Also, if we attempt to obtain future financing, we may be unable to obtain such financing which could materially adversely affect our operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our short-term results may be negatively impacted due to changes in health insurance costs, state unemployment tax rates and workers’ compensation rates, which we may not be able to immediately pass through to our clients. Health insurance costs, workers’ compensation and employment practices liability insurance rates and state unemployment taxes are primarily determined by our claims experience and comprise a significant portion of our actual costs. Should we experience a significant increase in claims activity, due to the current economic downturn or otherwise, we may experience a substantial increase in our health insurance premiums, unemployment taxes, or workers’ compensation and employment practices liability insurance rates. Our ability to pass such increases through to our clients on a timely basis may be delayed and our clients may not agree to the increases, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our insurance-related loss reserves may be inadequate to cover our ultimate liability for losses and as a result our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. We maintain loss reserves to cover our liabilities for the costs of our workers’ compensation programs. These reserves are not an exact calculation of our liability, but rather are estimates based on a number of factors including but not limited to actuarial calculations, current and historical loss trends and payment patterns, the number of open claims, developments relating to the actual claims incurred, medical trend rates and the impact of acquisitions, if any. Variables in the reserve estimation may be affected by both internal and external factors, such as changes in claims handling procedures, fluctuations in the administrative costs associated with the program, economic conditions, fiscal policies, interest rates, legal determinations and legislative and regulatory changes. Although our reserves estimates are regularly refined as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled, because of the uncertainties of estimating loss reserves, we cannot assure you that our reserves are adequate, and actual costs and expenses may exceed our reserves. If our reserves are insufficient to cover actual losses we may incur potentially material charges to our earnings. Our ability to manage health care costs affects our profitability. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to appropriately predict and manage future health care costs through underwriting criteria and negotiation of favorable contracts with health care plan providers. The aging of the population and other demographic characteristics, the introduction of new or costly treatments resulting from advances in medical technology and other factors continue to contribute to rising health care costs. Government-imposed limitations on Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements have also caused the private sector to assume a greater share of increasing health care costs. Changes in health care practices, inflation, new technologies, increases in the cost of prescription drugs, direct-to-consumer marketing by pharmaceutical companies, clusters of high cost cases, utilization levels, changes in the regulatory environment such as the health care reform legislation, health care provider or member fraud, and numerous other factors affecting the cost of health care can be beyond any health plan provider’s control and may adversely affect our ability to predict and manage health care costs, as well as our business, financial condition and operating results. We use actuarial data to assist us in analyzing and projecting these amounts, however, we and our carriers may not be successful in managing the cost of our plans. Accordingly, our costs under our health benefit plans could exceed the market’s competitive rates and as a result may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, due to possible increased client attrition or decreased client acquisition. We operate in a complex regulatory environment and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. The human resource outsourcing and PEO environment is subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, including those applicable to payroll practices, taxes, benefits administration, insurance, wage and hour, employment practices and data privacy. As many of these laws do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of a professional employer organization, assuring compliance with such laws and assessing the financial impact of such compliance can be difficult. 9 Because our clients have employees in states throughout the United States, we must also perform our services in compliance with the legal and regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions. Some of these laws and regulations may be difficult to ascertain or interpret, may conflict and may change over time, and the addition of new services may subject us to additional laws and regulations. Many of these laws and regulations were instituted prior to the development of the professional employer organization industry, and therefore can be difficult to interpret or assess and may change over time. As a result of uncertainty and inconsistency in the interpretation and application of many of these laws and regulations, from time to time we have had disagreements with regulatory agencies in various states, some of which have resulted in administrative proceedings between a state agency and us. If we are unable to continue to provide certain contractual obligations, such as the payment of employment taxes on the salaries and wages paid to client employees, due to an adverse determination regarding our regulatory status as an “employer”, our clients may be held jointly and severally liable for such payments. Violation of these laws and regulations could subject us to fines and penalties, damage our reputation, constitute breach of our client contracts and impair our ability to do business in various jurisdictions or in accordance with established processes. In addition, many states in which we operate have enacted more stringent laws that require licensing or registration of professional employer organizations. We may not be able to satisfy the licensing requirements or other applicable regulations of any particular state, or we may be unable to renew our licenses in the states in which we currently operate upon expiration of such licenses, which could prevent us from providing services to client employees in a certain state. In addition, many of these states have reciprocal disciplinary arrangements under which disciplinary action in one state can be the basis for disciplinary action in one or more other states. Future changes in or additions to these requirements may require us to modify the manner in which we provide services to our clients, which may increase our costs in providing such services. We are also increasingly affected by legal requirements relating to privacy of information. We anticipate that additional federal and state privacy laws and regulations beyond the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and the regulations promulgated there under will continue to be enacted and implemented. The scope of any such new laws and regulations may be very broad and entail significant costs for us to be in compliance. As a result of our co-employment relationship with most of our clients and client employees, we may be subject to liabilities as a result of their acts or omissions. We enter into a contractual relationship with each of our clients, whereby the client transfers certain employment-related risks and liabilities to us and retains other risks and liabilities. Many federal and state laws that apply to the employer-employee relationship do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of this “co-employment” relationship. Consequently, we may be subject to liability for violations of employment or discrimination laws, including violations of federal and state wage and hour laws, by our clients despite the contractual division of responsibilities between us, even if we do not participate in such violations. In addition, our client employees may also be deemed to be acting as our agents, subjecting us to further liability for the acts or omissions of such client employees. Although our professional services agreement provides that the client will indemnify us for any liability attributable to its own or its employees’ conduct, we may not be able to effectively enforce or collect such contractual indemnification. While we do maintain Employer Practices Liability Insurance (“EPLI”) to mitigate some of this risk, any such liability imposed upon us could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Because we assume the obligation to make wage, tax and regulatory payments on behalf of our clients, we are exposed to certain credit risks with respect to our clients. Under the terms of our professional services agreement, for clients serviced on a co-employed basis we generally assume responsibility for and manage the risks associated with each of our client’s employee payroll obligations, including the payment of salaries, wages and associated taxes, and, at the client’s option, the responsibility for providing group health, welfare and retirement benefits to each client employee. In this “co-employment” relationship, we directly assume these obligations, and unlike payroll processing service providers, we issue payroll checks to each client employee drawn on our own bank accounts. In several states, we are required to pay wages, payroll taxes and other amounts related to payroll regardless of whether the client timely funds such payments to us. For clients serviced either on a co-employed or non co-employed basis, who meet certain financial underwriting requirements, the Company may issue payroll to a client’s employees prior to irrevocable receipt of payroll, taxes and associated service fees. If we are unable to collect these payments from our larger clients, there may be a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The estate of our majority shareholder owns a substantial majority of our common stock and 100 percent of the Company’s outstanding preferred stock. As of June 30, 2012, our majority shareholder, Carter M. Fortune owns 6,084,853 shares (or 50%) of our outstanding common stock. In addition to the above shares, Mr. Fortune has dispositive control over 1,259,834 shares (or 10%) of the Company’s Common Stock held by 14 West, LLC as of June 30, 2012. Mr. Fortune passed away on August 25, 2012 and his estate now has control of his personal shares and dispositive control over the shares held by 14 West, LLC. As a result, the estate could have a controlling influence in determining the outcome of any corporate matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, election of directors and any other significant corporate actions. The interests of the estate may differ from the interests of the Company’s other shareholders and their stock ownership and thereby may limit the ability of other shareholders to influence the management and affairs of the Company. 10 As we discussed in our Forms 10-Q filed on February 13, 2012 and May 14, 2012, our primary shareholder’s 296,180 shares of preferred stock and 7,344,687 shares of common stock are held as collateral by a commercial bank for certain personal debt obligations of our majority shareholder. Future default on these obligations by his estate could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s (a) operations, (b) capital structure and (c) corporate governance. In addition any other future event that may cause a disruption in the estate’s ownership of its preferred stock and common stock could also have a material adverse effect on the Company’s (a) operations, (b) capital structure and (c) corporate governance. In addition and since the filing of our December 31, 2011 and March 31, 2012 Forms 10-Q on February 13, 2012 and May 14, 2012 respectively, we draw your attention to the following matters that have arisen since that date: a) as noted above, Mr. Fortune passed away on August 25, 2012, b) the maturity date of the aforementioned loan between Mr. Fortune and Indiana Bank and Trust Company (“the Bank”) was April 1, 2012 and was extended to August 31, 2012, c) Section 8.8 of Mr. Fortune’s loan currently includes a provision that requires his estate to use its best efforts to sell its interest in the Company in the event his loan remained outstanding on August 31, 2012, d) the estate was unable to pay off his loan to the Bank at August 31, 2012, and e) on January 25, 2012, a larger bank, Old National Bank entered into an agreement to acquire the Bank’s holding company, Indiana Community Bancorp. Negotiations are currently ongoing between the Bank and representatives of Mr. Fortune’s estate to extend the maturity date of the loan past the closing date of the proposed merger agreement with Ide Management, Inc. If the transaction closes, the lien on Mr. Fortune’s preferred and common stock will be released in return for a cash payment from Mr. Fortune’s estate from the proceeds of the sale of Mr. Fortune’s stock to CEP, Inc. The independent members of our board of directors believe that the proposed merger described in Item 12 regarding changes in control addresses, in part, these additional risks. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 