ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below and not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect our company in the future. If any of these risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. This section includes or refers to certain forward-looking statements; you should read the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on such forward-looking statements found in the section captioned “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” appearing on page 14 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005, which is attached as Exhibit 13 hereto, and is incorporated herein by reference. Unless the context otherwise requires, the words “Cognex,” “we,” “our,” “us,” and “our company” refer to Cognex Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions and capital spending may negatively impact our operating results. Our revenue is dependent upon the capital spending trends of manufacturers in a number of industries and regions. These spending levels are, in turn, impacted by global economic conditions. Our operating results have been materially adversely affected in the past, and could be materially adversely affected in the future, as a result of unfavorable economic conditions and reduced capital spending by manufacturers worldwide. Downturns in the semiconductor and electronics industries may adversely affect our business. In 2005, approximately 27% of our revenue was derived from semiconductor and electronics capital equipment manufacturers. This concentration was as high as 61% in 2000 during its revenue peak. The semiconductor and electronics industries are highly cyclical and have historically experienced periodic downturns, which have often had a severe effect on demand for production equipment that incorporates our products. While we have been successful in recent years in diversifying our business beyond OEM customers who serve the semiconductor and electronics industries, our business is still impacted by capital expenditures in these industries, which, in turn, are dependent upon the market demand for products containing computer chips. As a result, our operating results in the foreseeable future could be significantly and adversely affected by a slowdown in either of these industries. Economic, political, and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our business and operating results. In 2005, approximately 63% of our revenue was derived from customers located outside of the United States. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue. We intend to continue to expand our operations outside of the United States and may enter 9 Table of Contents additional international markets, which will require significant management attention and financial resources. As a result, our operations are subject to the risks inherent in international sales, including, among other things, • various regulatory requirements, • transportation delays, • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales operations, and • potentially adverse tax consequences. In addition, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may render our products less competitive relative to local product offerings, or could result in significant foreign currency losses if not properly hedged. We are also subject to the political risks inherent in international operations and their impact on the global economy, including economic disruption from acts of war or terrorism, particularly in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could materially affect our reported results. We face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as a significant portion of our revenue, expenses, assets, and liabilities are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of our company. In certain instances, we utilize derivative instruments to hedge against foreign currency fluctuations. These contracts are used to reduce our risk associated with foreign currency exchange rate changes, as the gains or losses on the derivative are intended to offset the losses or gains on the underlying exposure. We do not engage in foreign currency speculation. The success of our foreign currency risk management program depends upon forecasts of transaction activity denominated in various currencies. To the extent that these forecasts are overstated or understated during periods of currency volatility, we could experience unanticipated foreign currency gains or losses that could have a material impact on our results of operations. In addition, our failure to identify new exposures and hedge them in a timely manner may result in material foreign currency gains or losses. The loss of a large customer could have an adverse effect on our operating results. In 2005, our top five customers accounted for approximately 9% of total revenue. In recent years, our expansion into the end-user marketplace has reduced its reliance upon the revenue from any one of our larger OEM customers. Nevertheless, the loss of, or significant curtailment of purchases by, any one or more of our larger customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The failure of a key supplier to deliver quality product in a timely manner or our inability to obtain components for our products could adversely affect our operating results. A significant portion of our MVSD inventory is manufactured by a third-party contractor. As a result, we are dependent upon this contractor to provide quality product and meet delivery schedules. We engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring the performance of our third-party manufacturers; however, we may not detect all product quality issues through these programs and processes. In addition, a variety of components used in our products are only available from a single source. The announcement by a single-source supplier of a last-time component buy could result in our purchase of a significant amount of inventory that, in turn, could lead to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. An interruption in, termination of, or material change in the purchase terms of any single-source components could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of, or fail to attract, key personnel. We are highly dependent upon the management and leadership of Robert J. Shillman, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors, as well as other members of our senior management team, including James F. Hoffmaster who was promoted to President of Cognex Corporation during 2004 with full responsibility for running our day-to-day operations. Although we have retained many experienced and qualified senior managers, the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our company. Our continued growth and success also depends upon our 10 Table of Contents ability to attract and retain skilled employees and on the ability of our officers and key employees to effectively manage the growth of our business through the implementation of appropriate management information systems and internal controls. Our products may contain design or manufacturing defects, which could result in reduced demand, significant delays, or substantial costs. If flaws in either the design or manufacture of our products were to occur, we could experience a rate of failure in our products that could result in significant delays in shipment and material repair or replacement costs. While we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of our component suppliers and contract manufacturers, these actions may not be sufficient to avoid a product failure rate that results in: • substantial delays in shipment, • significant repair or replacement costs, or • potential damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our failure to accurately forecast customer demand could result in inventory obsolescence and resulting charges. In recent years, we have expanded our presence in the end-user marketplace. Our end-user business typically operates with a relatively short backlog and our production plans are based on internal forecasts of customer demand. Due to these factors, we have in the past, and may again in the future, fail to accurately forecast demand, in terms of both volume and configuration for either our legacy or next-generation products. Our failure to accurately forecast customer demand has led to, and may again in the future lead to, an increased risk of inventory obsolescence and resulting charges. Our failure to develop new products and to respond to technological changes could result in the loss of our market share and a decrease in our revenues. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology. Accordingly, we believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to develop or acquire new products with improved price/performance and introduce them to the marketplace in a timely manner. We may not be able to introduce and market new products successfully and respond effectively to technological changes or new product introductions by competitors. Our ability to keep pace with the rapid rate of technological change in the high-technology marketplace could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we fail to successfully defend our intellectual property, our competitive position and operating results could suffer. We rely heavily on our proprietary software technology and hardware designs, as well as the technical expertise, creativity, and knowledge of our personnel. Although we use a variety of methods to protect our intellectual property, we rely most heavily on patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection, as well as non-disclosure agreements with customers, suppliers, employees, and consultants. We also attempt to protect our intellectual property by restricting access to our proprietary information by a combination of technical and internal security measures. These measures, however, may not be adequate to: • protect our proprietary technology, • protect our patents from challenge, invalidation, or circumvention, or • ensure that our intellectual property will provide us with competitive advantages. Any of these adverse circumstances could have a material effect on our operating results. We refer you to the section captioned “Intellectual Property,” appearing in Part I — Item I of this report. 11 Table of Contents Our company may be subject to costly litigation. From time to time, we may be subject to various claims and lawsuits by competitors, customers, or other parties arising in the ordinary course of business, including lawsuits charging patent infringement. These matters can be time-consuming, divert our management’s attention and resources, and cause us to incur significant expenses. Furthermore, the results of any of these actions may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Increased competition may result in decreased demand or prices for our products and services. We compete with other vendors of machine vision systems, the internal engineering efforts of our current or prospective customers, and the manufacturers of image processing systems and sensors. Any of these competitors may have greater financial and other resources than we do. In recent years, ease-of-use and product price have become significant competitive factors in the end-user marketplace. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future and our investments in research and development, sales and marketing, and service activities may be insufficient to enable us to maintain our competitive advantage. In addition, competitive pressures could lead to price erosion that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We refer you to the section captioned “Competition,” appearing in Part I — Item 1 of this report. Implementation of our acquisition strategy may not be successful, which could affect our ability to increase our revenue or profitability. We have in the past acquired, and will in the future consider the acquisition of, businesses and technologies in the machine vision industry. If we acquire other businesses or technologies in the future, our business may be negatively impacted by risks related to those acquisitions. These risks include, among others: • the diversification of management’s attention from other operational matters, • the inability to realized expected synergies resulting from the acquisition, • the failure to retain key customers or employees, and • the impairment of acquired intangible assets resulting from technological obsolescence or lower-than-expected cash flows from the acquired assets. Acquisitions are inherently risky and the inability the effectively manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Our business strategy includes selective expansion into other machine vision applications through the acquisition of businesses and technologies. Since 1995, we have completed ten business and technology acquisitions, including the acquisition of DVT Corporation in 2005. We plan to continue to seek opportunities to expand our product line, customer base, distribution network, and technical talent through acquisitions in the machine vision industry. However, we may not have the opportunity to make suitable acquisitions on favorable terms in the future, which could negatively impact the growth of our business. We expect that other companies in the machine vision industry will compete with us to acquire compatible businesses. This competition could increase prices for businesses and technologies that we would likely pursue, and our competitors may have greater resources than we do. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile. The price of our common stock has historically experienced significant volatility due to: • fluctuations in our revenue and earnings, • changes in the market’s expectations for our growth, • overall equity market conditions, • conditions relating to the market for technology stocks, • general economic conditions, and • other factors unrelated to our operations. 12 Table of Contents The stock markets have experienced extreme price volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities issued by many technology companies, such as our company, often for reasons unrelated to the operating results of the specific company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company did not receive written comments from the Commission staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the year ended December 31, 2005, and there are no unresolved staff comments as of the date of this report. 