Item 1A. Risk Factors Our businesses are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties which are described below. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not described or not known to management of the Company may also impair business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We could have unfavorable health insurance and workers’ compensation claim experiences. The Business Solutions segment calculates reserves for workers’ compensation and health insurance claims by estimating unpaid losses and loss expenses with respect to claims occurring on or before the balance sheet date, and in certain instances, we carry high deductibles on these policies. Such estimates include provisions for reported claims and provisions for incurred-but-not-reported claims. The estimates of unpaid losses are established and continually reviewed by the Company using a variety of statistical and analytical techniques. Reserve estimates reflect past claims experience, currently known factors and trends and estimates of future claim trends. We cannot be certain that future claims will be consistent with past experience. We could face additional liability for worksite employee payroll and benefits costs. Under customer service agreements in our Business Solutions segment, we become a co-employer of worksite employees and assume the obligations to pay the salaries, wages and related benefits costs and payroll taxes of such worksite employees. Our obligations include responsibility for: § payment of the salaries and wages for work performed by worksite employees, regardless of whether the client timely pays us the associated service fee; and § providing benefits to worksite employees even if our costs to provide such benefits exceed the fees the client pays us. If a client does not pay us, or if the costs of benefits we provide to worksite employees exceed the fees a client pays us, our ultimate liability for worksite employee payroll and benefits costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We may face operational challenges as a result of changes in federal, state and local regulations. As a major employer, our operations in the Business Solutions segment are affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to labor, tax and employment matters. By entering into a co-employer relationship with employees of our clients, we assume certain obligations and responsibilities of an employer under these laws. However, many of these laws (such as ERISA and federal and state employment tax laws) do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of non-traditional employers such as PEOs, and the definition of “employer” under these laws is not uniform. In addition, some of the states in which we operate have not addressed the PEO relationship for purposes of compliance with applicable state laws governing the employer/employee relationship. Any adverse application of these other federal or state laws to the PEO relationship with our worksite employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. However, due to the strong legislative efforts of the National Association of Professional Employer Organizations (NAPEO), much of this risk is being mitigated, as NAPEO has put in place in many states, via legislation, regulations that satisfy most state legislatures. These self-imposed industry regulations also help to clarify or define the PEO co-employment relationship in various areas of state employment law and have greatly reduced the risk of legislative change negatively affecting PEOs at the state level. In the states of Utah, Colorado, and Arizona, NAPEO has taken an active role during 2008 and will continue during 2009 to settle the legislative landscape in those states. - 10 - Table of Contents While many states do not explicitly regulate PEOs, various states have passed or may be considering passing laws that have licensing or registration requirements for PEOs. Such laws vary from state to state, but generally provide for monitoring the fiscal responsibility of PEOs, and in some cases codify and clarify the co-employment relationship for unemployment, workers’ compensation and other purposes under state law. While we generally support licensing regulation because it serves to validate the PEO relationship, we typically satisfy licensing requirements or other applicable regulations for the states we currently operate in. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain licenses in all states. We may face additional liabilities as a result of increases in unemployment tax rates. We record our state unemployment tax expense based on taxable wages and tax rates assigned by each state. State unemployment tax rates vary by state and are determined, in part, based on prior years’ compensation experience in each state. Should our claim experience increase, our unemployment tax rates could increase. In addition, states have the ability under law to increase unemployment tax rates to cover deficiencies in the unemployment tax fund. Some states have implemented retroactive cost increases. Some client contractual arrangements limit our ability to incorporate such increases into service fees, which could result in a delay before such increases could be reflected in service fees. The PEO contracts for the PEM office in Arizona limits their ability to pass on SUTA rate increases. For clients acquired after January 1, 2008, the Arizona office contracts allow the PEO to raise SUTA rates on an as needed basis. PEO Contracts for clients in the states of Utah and Colorado do not limit the PEOs ability to raise SUTA rates on an as needed basis. PEO contracts in the States of Indiana and Tennessee are also non restrictive regarding the PEO’s ability to raise SUTA rates on an as needed basis. As a result, most increases to a PEOs SUTA rate can be passed on to their clients and will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. During the winter months and at other times of year, demand for our services (including, but not limited to the services provided by the Wireless Infrastructure and Transportation Infrastructure segments) may be lower due to inclement weather. In addition, inclement weather could cause delays in the issuance or completion of projects. Further, our quarterly results may also be materially affected by: § the timing and volume of work under new agreements; § the termination of existing agreements; § regional or general economic conditions; § a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business; § the budgetary spending patterns of customers; § variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter; § increases in construction and design costs; § the availability of products to sell; § changes to the cost of available products; § changes in bonding requirements applicable to new agreements; § losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; § payment risk associated with the financial condition of our customers; § costs we incur to support growth internally or through acquisitions or otherwise; § the timing of acquisitions; and § the magnitude of acquisition assimilation costs. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other quarter or for the entire year. Effective November 30, 2008, the Company sold its subsidiaries operating in the Wireless Infrastructure and Transportation Infrastructure segments, whose operating results vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter based on seasonality and other factors. We may not be able to maintain appropriate staffing levels related to our billable workforce. If we maintain or increase billable staffing levels in anticipation of one or more projects and those projects are delayed, reduced or terminated, or otherwise do not materialize, we may underutilize these personnel, which could have material, adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. This risk primarily affects our Wireless Infrastructure segment. In order to lessen this risk we deliberately reduced the size and scope of our wireless construction and wireless technical services businesses. In addition, we reduced our number of employees in this segment and increased the number of subcontractors. Effective November 30. 2008, the Company sold its subsidiary operating in the Wireless Infrastructure segment, which is affected by its ability to maintain appropriate staffing levels. We bear the risk of cost overruns on a large percentage of our revenues that are derived from fixed price contracts. The concentration of a portion of our business among a number of fixed price contracts (including, but not limited to contracts in the Wireless Infrastructure and Transportation Infrastructure segments) increases our potential risk of loss. Under fixed price contracts, we provide specific tasks for a specific price and are typically paid on a milestone basis. Such contracts involve greater financial risks because we bear the risk if actual project costs exceed the amounts we are paid under the contracts. - 11 - Table of Contents Effective November 30, 2008, the Company sold its subsidiaries operating in the Wireless Infrastructure and Transportation Infrastructure segments, which do business under fixed price contracts. Our unionized workforce could adversely affect our operations. As of August 31, 2008, approximately 72% of our employees within our Transportation Infrastructure segment were covered by multi-employer bargaining agreements. Although the majority of these agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. Strikes or work stoppages would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could cause us to lose business and decrease our revenue. Effective November 30, 2008, the Company sold its subsidiary operating in the Transportation Infrastructure segment, which utilizes unionized workforces. We may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial impact relating to occupational health and safety matters. The services provided by us create a risk of serious injury or death for the employees performing the work and for other persons (including but not limited to cellular tower construction in the Wireless Infrastructure segment and highway construction work in the Transportation Infrastructure segment). These risks can increase the Company’s exposure to liability and may result in increased insurance costs. In addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time, our customers could cancel our contracts and not award us future business. Effective November 30, 2008, the Company sold its subsidiaries operating in the Wireless Infrastructure and Transportation Infrastructure segments, which have high exposure to occupational health and safety matters. Our success is dependent on growth in the deployment of wireless networks and new technology upgrades, and to the extent that such growth slows, our business may be harmed. Telecommunications carriers, who are serviced by our Wireless Infrastructure segment, are constantly re-evaluating their network deployment plans in response to trends in the capital markets, changing perceptions regarding industry growth, the adoption of new wireless technologies, increasing pricing competition for subscribers and general economic conditions in the United States. If the rate of network deployment slows and carriers reduce their capital investments in wireless infrastructure or fail to expand into new geographic areas, our business may be significantly harmed. The uncertainty associated with rapidly changing telecommunications technologies may also negatively impact the rate of deployment of wireless networks and the demand for our services. Telecommunications service providers face significant challenges in assessing consumer demand and in acceptance of rapidly changing enhanced telecommunications capabilities. If telecommunications service providers perceive that the rate of acceptance of next generation telecommunications products will grow more slowly than previously expected, they may, as a result, slow their development of next generation technologies. Moreover, increasing price competition for subscribers could adversely affect the profitability of carriers and limit their resources for network deployment. Any significant sustained slowdown will further reduce the demand for our services and adversely affect our financial results. Effective November 30, 2008, the Company sold its subsidiary operating in the Wireless Infrastructure segment, which depends on growth in the wireless industry. The telecommunications industry has experienced significant consolidation, and this trend is expected to continue. It is possible that we and one or more of our competitors each supply products to the companies that have merged or will merge. This consolidation could result in delays in purchasing decisions by merged companies or in us playing a decreased role in the supply of products to the merged companies. Delays or reductions in wireless infrastructure spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and, consequently, our results of operations. Effective November 30, 2008, the Company sold its subsidiary operating in the Wireless Infrastructure segment, which is affected by telecommunications consolidation. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. We have, through invention, license agreements or other means, gained various rights in intellectual property that create value for us. In order to avoid public disclosure of details relating to our inventions and intellectual property (especially with respect to our ultraviolet ink formulas within our Ultraviolet Technologies segment), we have in many cases chosen to avoid the patent filing process. Accordingly, it may be difficult to protect these various intellectual property rights from infringement or other degradation and the underlying intellectual property could thereby decrease in value to us. Much of our intellectual property (including, but not limited to ultraviolet ink formulas within our Ultraviolet Technologies segment) is treated as a trade secret; as such, it may not have the same protection as if it had been patented. - 12 - Table of Contents Effective November 30, 2008, the Company sold its subsidiary operating in the Ultraviolet Technologies segment, which holds intellectual property rights. Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairments. When we acquire a business, we record goodwill equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” which provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives should continue to be amortized over their useful lives. SFAS 142 also provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. SFAS 142 requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. Absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually as of the end of the fourth quarter. Future impairments, if any, will be recognized as operating expenses. We may not be able to successfully achieve the expected benefits of acquisitions, which expose us to risks associated with these transactions. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions or investments in or engage in strategic partnering relationships with other companies or technologies. We may not be able to successfully achieve expected benefits. Additionally, we may be exposed to factors including but not limited to unanticipated contingent liabilities, additional expenses, loss of key employees or customers, or other contingencies consistent with acquisition risks, which ultimately could result in significantly decreased earnings and material and adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unsuccessful at integrating companies. We may not successfully integrate the companies that we have acquired or that we may acquire with our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. Failure to implement proper overall business controls could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices at the companies that we acquire, and our overall profitability could be adversely affected. Integrating our acquired companies involves a number of special risks which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including: · failure of acquired companies to achieve the results that we expect; · diversion of management's attention from operational matters; · difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; · inability to retain key personnel of the acquired companies; · risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; · the potential disruption of business; and · the difficulty of maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. Further, if one of the acquired companies suffers customer dissatisfaction or performance problems, our reputation could be materially and adversely affected. Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our financial condition. Our substantial indebtedness could have significant negative consequences. For example, it could: · increase our sensitivity to interest rate fluctuations; · limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate requirements, or to carry out other aspects of our business plan; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to pay principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of that cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes, or to carry out other aspects of our business plan; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; · cause our suppliers to institute more onerous payment terms generally or require us to purchase letters of credit for this purpose; · limit our ability to pursue additional acquisitions; · lead us to have less favorable credit terms which would increase the amount of working capital necessary to conduct our business; and · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. - 13 - Table of Contents In addition, our loan agreements contain restrictions that may limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests such as selling assets, strategic acquisitions, paying dividends, stock repurchases and borrowing additional funds. Our failure to comply with these restrictions could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt which could leave us unable to meet some or all of our obligations. See the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The departure of key personnel could disrupt our business, and few of our key personnel have employment contracts requiring a service commitment. We depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and on the senior management of the businesses we acquire. Although we intend to enter into an employment agreement with each of our executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not carry key-person life insurance on some key employees, including our majority shareholder that guarantees certain debt obligations. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We have reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that, if we do not substantially remedy, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. As described in Item 9A of this Report, certain control deficiencies constitute a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2008. In particular, we have concluded that (i) additional accounting personnel were needed at certain subsidiaries at August 31, 2008 to ensure that certain disclosure controls and procedures were operating effectively; (ii) greater segregation of duties was needed in the accounting functions; and (iii) certain procedures should be documented to ensure that personnel turnover does not result in a failure of those procedures. Certain businesses we have acquired may have had limited infrastructure and systems of internal controls. Performing assessments of internal controls, implementing necessary changes, and maintaining an effective internal controls process is costly and requires considerable management attention, particularly in the case of newly acquired entities. Internal control systems are designed in part upon assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and all such systems, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. We also cannot assure that we will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls will not be discovered in the future. Any failure to remediate any future material weaknesses or implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements or other public disclosures. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and require significant management time and attention. As a public company we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules of the American Stock Exchange (AMEX). The requirements of these rules and regulations have increased, and may further increase in the future, our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time consuming or costly and may also place undue strain on our systems and resources. The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we report on the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, and internal controls over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, and internal controls over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. In addition, beginning with our 2011 fiscal year, we will be required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified independent members of our Board of Directors and qualified members of our management team. A control group owns a substantial majority of our common stock. As of August 31, 2008, the Control Group held 74.3% or 8,454,784 shares of our outstanding common stock. Members of the Control Group as of this date include John F. Fisbeck and Carter M. Fortune. Individually, each of the above persons had the sole voting and dispositive power over the following number of shares of the Company’s Common Stock as of August 31, 2008: John F. Fisbeck, 1,637,701 (or 14.4%) and Carter M. Fortune, 4,135,010 (or 36.3%). In addition to the above shares, Messrs. Fisbeck and Fortune equally share dispositive control over 2,682,073 (or 23.6%) shares of the Company’s Common Stock held by 14 West, LLC as of August 31, 2008. - 14 - Table of Contents As a result, these persons could have a controlling influence in determining the outcome of any corporate matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, election of directors and any other significant corporate actions. The interests of these shareholders may differ from the interests of the Company’s other shareholders and their stock ownership may thereby limit the ability of other shareholders to influence the management and affairs of the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 