ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect our company in the future. If any of these risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. This section includes or refers to certain forward-looking statements. We refer you to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on such forward-looking statements, appearing in Part II – Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Unless the context otherwise requires, the words “Cognex,” “we,” “our,” “us,” and “our company” refer to Cognex Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions and capital spending may negatively impact our operating results. Our revenue is dependent upon the capital spending trends of manufacturers in a number of industries, including, among others, the semiconductor, electronics, automotive, metals, and paper industries. These spending levels are, in turn, impacted by global economic conditions, as well as industry-specific economic conditions. Our operating results have been materially adversely affected in the past, and could be materially adversely affected in the future, as a result of unfavorable economic conditions and reduced capital spending by manufacturers worldwide. Downturns in the semiconductor and electronics capital equipment market may adversely affect our business. In 2007, approximately 25% of our revenue was derived from semiconductor and electronics capital equipment manufacturers. This concentration was as high as 61% in 2000 during its revenue peak. The semiconductor and electronics industries are highly cyclical and have historically experienced periodic downturns, which have often had a severe effect on demand for production equipment that incorporates our products. While we have been successful in diversifying our business beyond OEM customers who serve the semiconductor and electronics industries, our business is still impacted by capital expenditures in these industries, which, in turn, are dependent upon the market demand for products containing computer chips. As a result, our operating results in the foreseeable future could be significantly and adversely affected by a slowdown in either of these industries. Economic, political, and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our business and operating results. In 2007, approximately 65% of our revenue was derived from customers located outside of the United States. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue. We intend to continue to expand our operations outside of the United States and may enter additional international markets, such as our recent expansion into China and Eastern Europe, which will require significant management attention and financial resources. As a result, our operations are subject to the risks inherent in international sales, including, among other things: • various regulatory requirements, • export and import restrictions, • transportation delays, • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales operations, • business systems connectivity issues, and • potentially adverse tax consequences. In addition, certain of our products are assembled by third-party contract manufacturers in Ireland and Southeast Asia. Due to these relationships and our other activities outside of the United States, we are subject to the political risks inherent in international operations and their impact on the global economy, 8 Table of Contents including economic disruption from acts of war or terrorism, particularly in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the use of derivative instruments to hedge these exposures could adversely affect our reported results, liquidity, and competitive position. We face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as a significant portion of our revenue, expenses, assets, and liabilities are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of our company. In certain instances, we utilize forward contracts and other derivative instruments to hedge against foreign currency fluctuations. These contracts are used to minimize foreign currency gains or losses, as the gains or losses on the derivative are intended to offset the losses or gains on the underlying exposure. We do not engage in foreign currency speculation. The success of our foreign currency risk management program depends upon forecasts of transaction activity denominated in various currencies. To the extent that these forecasts are overstated or understated during periods of currency volatility, we could experience unanticipated foreign currency gains or losses that could have a material impact on our results of operations. Furthermore, our failure to identify new exposures and hedge them in an effective and timely manner may result in material foreign currency gains or losses. In addition, although the use of these derivative instruments may be effective in minimizing foreign currency gains or losses, significant cash inflows or outflows may result when these instruments are settled. Our predominant currency of sale is the U.S. Dollar in the Americas and Southeast Asia, the Yen in Japan, and the Euro in Europe. Our U.S. Dollar based pricing in Southeast Asia may put us at a competitive disadvantage with other Asian vendors that offer local-currency based pricing. In addition, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may render our products less competitive. For example, the weak U.S. Dollar versus the Euro may attract certain of our European customers to vendors in the United States, and therefore, have an adverse effect on our local European sales. The loss of a large customer could have an adverse effect on our business. In 2007, our top five customers accounted for approximately 9% of total revenue. Our expansion into the factory automation marketplace has reduced our reliance upon the revenue from any one of our larger OEM customers. Nevertheless, the loss of, or significant curtailment of purchases by, any one or more of our larger customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The failure of a key supplier to deliver quality product in a timely manner or our inability to obtain components for our products could adversely affect our operating results. A significant portion of our MVSD product is manufactured by two third-party contractors. As a result, we are dependent upon these contractors to provide quality product and meet delivery schedules. We engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring the performance of our third-party manufacturers; however, we may not detect all product quality issues through these programs and processes. In addition, a variety of components used in our products are only available from a single source. The announcement by a single-source supplier of a last-time component buy could result in our purchase of a significant amount of inventory that, in turn, could lead to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. An interruption in, termination of, or material change in the purchase terms of any single-source components could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of, or fail to attract, key personnel. We are highly dependent upon the management and leadership of Robert J. Shillman, our President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as other members of our senior management team. On March 27, 2007, James Hoffmaster, our former President who was responsible for running our day-to-day operations, 9 Table of Contents resigned and Robert J. Shillman took over these responsibilities with the assistance of members of the senior management team listed in Part I – Item 4A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Although we have retained many experienced and qualified senior managers, the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our company. Our continued growth and success also depends upon our ability to attract and retain skilled employees and on the ability of our officers and key employees to effectively manage the growth of our business through the implementation of appropriate management information systems and internal controls. We have historically used stock options as a key component of our total employee compensation program in order to align employee interests with the interests of our shareholders, provide competitive compensation and benefits packages, and encourage employee retention. Difficulties relating to obtaining shareholder approval of stock option plans have resulted in a reduction in the total number of options available for grant in future periods. Accordingly, we may find it difficult to attract, retain, and motivate employees, and any such difficulty could materially adversely affect our business. Our products may contain design or manufacturing defects, which could result in reduced demand, significant delays, or substantial costs. If flaws in either the design or manufacture of our products were to occur, we could experience a rate of failure in our products that could result in significant delays in shipment and material repair or replacement costs. While we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of our component suppliers and contract manufacturers, these actions may not be sufficient to avoid a product failure rate that results in: • substantial delays in shipment, • significant repair or replacement costs, or • potential damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our failure to develop new products and to respond to technological changes could result in the loss of our market share and a decrease in our revenues and profits. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology. Accordingly, we believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to accelerate time to market for new products and functionality with improved ease-of-use, performance, or price. We may not be able to introduce and market new products successfully and respond effectively to technological changes or new product introductions by competitors. Our ability to keep pace with the rapid rate of technological change in the high-technology marketplace could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our failure to effectively manage product transitions or accurately forecast customer demand could result in excess or obsolete inventory and resulting charges. Because the market for our products is characterized by rapid technological advances, we frequently introduce new products with improved ease-of-use, improved hardware performance, additional software features and functionality, or lower cost that may replace existing products. Among the risks associated with the introduction of new products are difficulty predicting customer demand and effectively managing inventory levels to ensure adequate supply of the new product and avoid excess supply of the legacy product. In addition, we may strategically enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors to purchase materials for our products in advance of demand in order to take advantage of favorable pricing or address concerns about the availability of future supplies. Our failure to effectively manage product transitions or accurately forecast customer demand, in terms of both volume and configuration, has led to, and may again in the future lead to, an increased risk of excess or obsolete inventory and resulting charges. 10 Table of Contents Our failure to properly manage the distribution of our products and services could result in the loss of revenues and profits. We utilize a direct sales force, as well as a network of third-party distributors, to sell our products and services. Successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect sales channels to reach various potential customers for our products and services is a complex process. In addition, our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce visibility to demand and pricing issues. Each distribution method has distinct risks and costs, and therefore, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. If we fail to successfully defend our intellectual property, our competitive position and operating results could suffer. We rely on our proprietary software technology and hardware designs, as well as the technical expertise, creativity, and knowledge of our personnel. Although we use a variety of methods to protect our intellectual property, we rely most heavily on patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection, as well as non-disclosure agreements with customers, suppliers, employees, and consultants. We also attempt to protect our intellectual property by restricting access to our proprietary information by a combination of technical and internal security measures. These measures, however, may not be adequate to: • protect our proprietary technology, • protect our patents from challenge, invalidation, or circumvention, or • ensure that our intellectual property will provide us with competitive advantages. Any of these adverse circumstances could have a material effect on our operating results. Our company may be subject to costly litigation. From time to time, we may be subject to various claims and lawsuits by competitors, customers, or other parties arising in the ordinary course of business, including lawsuits charging patent infringement. We are currently a party to certain patent infringement actions that are fully described in the section captioned “Legal Proceedings,” appearing in Part I – Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These matters can be time-consuming, divert our management’s attention and resources, and cause us to incur significant expenses. Furthermore, the results of any of these actions may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Increased competition may result in decreased demand or prices for our products and services. We compete with other vendors of machine vision systems, the internal engineering efforts of our current or prospective customers, and the manufacturers of image processing systems, automatic identification systems, and sensors. Any of these competitors may have greater financial and other resources than we do. In recent years, ease-of-use and product price have become significant competitive factors in the factory automation marketplace. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future and our investments in research and development, sales and marketing, and support activities may be insufficient to enable us to maintain our competitive advantage. In addition, competitive pressures could lead to price erosion that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We refer you to the section captioned “Competition,” appearing in Part I – Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Implementation of our acquisition strategy may not be successful, which could affect our ability to increase our revenue or profitability. We have in the past acquired, and will in the future consider the acquisition of, businesses and technologies in the machine vision industry. Our business may be negatively impacted by risks related to those acquisitions. These risks include, among others: • the diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters, • the inability to realize expected synergies resulting from the acquisition, 11 Table of Contents • the failure to retain key customers or employees, and • the impairment of acquired intangible assets resulting from technological obsolescence or lower-than-expected cash flows from the acquired assets. Acquisitions are inherently risky and the inability to effectively manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Our business strategy includes selective expansion into other machine vision applications through the acquisition of businesses and technologies. Since 1995, we have completed several business and technology acquisitions, including the acquisition of DVT Corporation in May 2005 and AssistWare Technology, Inc. in May 2006. We plan to continue to seek opportunities to expand our product line, customer base, distribution network, and technical talent through acquisitions in the machine vision industry. However, we may not have the opportunity to make suitable acquisitions on favorable terms in the future, which could negatively impact the growth of our business. We expect that other companies in the machine vision industry will compete with us to acquire compatible businesses. This competition could increase prices for businesses and technologies that we would likely pursue, and our competitors may have greater resources than we do. We may have additional tax liabilities. We are subject to income taxes in the United States, as well as numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in our financial statements and could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period in which the determination is made. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile. The price of our common stock has historically experienced significant volatility due to: • fluctuations in our revenue and earnings, • changes in the market’s expectations for our growth, • overall equity market conditions, • conditions relating to the market for technology stocks, • general economic conditions, and • other factors unrelated to our operations. The stock markets have experienced significant price volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities issued by many technology companies, such as our company, often for reasons unrelated to the operating results of the specific company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved SEC staff comments as of the date of this report. 