ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect our company in the future. If any of these risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. This section includes or refers to certain forward-looking statements. We refer you to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on such forward-looking statements, appearing under the heading “Forward-Looking Statements” in Part II – Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Global economic conditions may negatively impact our operating results. Our revenue levels are impacted by global economic conditions, as we have a significant business presence in many countries throughout the world. In 2009, the credit market crisis and slowing global economies resulted in significantly lower demand for our products, as many of our customers experienced deterioration in their businesses, cash flow issues, difficulty obtaining financing, and declining business confidence. Although our business has recovered since that time, global economic conditions are still unsettled in certain regions, resulting in a challenging environment to achieve our targeted rate of revenue growth. We experienced economic headwinds during 2013, particularly in Europe, and the economies in this region remain unsettled as we enter 2014. If global economic conditions remain unsettled or were to deteriorate, our revenue and our ability to generate operating profits could be materially adversely affected. As a result, our business is subject to the following risks, among others: • our customers may not have sufficient cash flow or access to financing to purchase our products, • our customers may not pay us within agreed upon terms or may default on their payments altogether, • our vendors may be unable to fulfill their delivery obligations to us in a timely manner, • lower demand for our products may result in charges for excess and obsolete inventory if we are unable to sell inventory that is either already on hand or committed to purchase, • lower cash flows may result in impairment charges for acquired intangible assets or goodwill, • a decline in our stock price may make stock options a less attractive form of compensation and a less effective form of retention for our employees, and • the trading price of our common stock may be volatile. 7 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2013, the Company had approximately $455 million in cash or debt securities that could be converted into cash. In addition, Cognex has no long-term debt and we do not anticipate needing debt financing in the near future. We believe that our strong cash position puts us in a relatively good position to weather another economic downturn. Nevertheless, our operating results have been materially adversely affected in the past, and could be materially adversely affected in the future, as a result of unfavorable economic conditions and reduced capital spending by manufacturers worldwide. Downturns in the semiconductor and electronics capital equipment market may adversely affect our business. In 2013, approximately 7% of our revenue was derived from semiconductor and electronics capital equipment manufacturers. This concentration was as high as 61% in 2000 during its revenue peak. The semiconductor and electronics industries are highly cyclical and have historically experienced periodic downturns, which have often had a severe effect on demand for production equipment that incorporates our products. While we have been successful in diversifying our business beyond OEM customers who serve the semiconductor and electronics industries, our business is still impacted by capital expenditures in these industries, which, in turn, are dependent upon the market demand for products containing computer chips. As a result, our operating results in the foreseeable future could be significantly and adversely affected by declining sales in either of these industries. Furthermore, the competitive landscape in this market has changed in recent years, with price and the flexibility of purchasing hardware from other vendors becoming more important factors in the purchasing decisions of these manufacturers. In response to this market change, we have introduced software-only products. Although these products have high gross margins, the average selling price of these offerings is significantly lower than for a complete vision system, and therefore, we expect this trend to have a negative impact on our revenue in this market. In addition, a decline in sales in the semiconductor and electronics capital equipment market, where many of these software-only products are sold, may also have a negative impact on our MVSD gross margins. A downturn in the automotive or consumer electronics industries may adversely affect our business. As we have diversified away from the semiconductor and electronics capital equipment market over the past several years, we have expanded into other industries that comprise the broad factory automation market. In 2013, the largest industries that we served in factory automation were the automotive and consumer electronics industries. Our business is impacted by the level of capital spending in these industries, as well as the product design cycles of our major customers in these industries. The market leaders in these industries are able to exert purchasing power over their vendors’ supply chains, and our large customers in these industries may decide to purchase fewer products from Cognex or stop purchasing from Cognex altogether. As a result, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected by declining sales in these industries. Our inability to penetrate new markets outside of the manufacturing sector may impede our revenue growth. We are pursuing applications in the automatic identification market outside of the manufacturing sector, such as using ID products in logistics automation for package sorting and distribution. As shipping volumes grow, more distribution centers are choosing to upgrade their traditional laser-based scanners to image-based barcode readers, which will cost-effectively increase package sorter efficiency and throughput by improving read rates. Cognex has introduced image-based barcode readers in order to penetrate the ID logistics market and grow our ID Products business beyond the traditional manufacturing sector that we currently serve. Our growth plan is dependent upon successfully penetrating the ID logistics market and we are making significant investments in this area. Therefore, our failure to generate revenue in this new market in the amounts or within the time periods anticipated may have a material adverse impact on our revenue growth and operating profits. 8 Table of Contents Economic, political, and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our business and operating results. In 2013, approximately 67% of our revenue was derived from customers located outside of the United States. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue. In addition, certain of our products are assembled by third-party contract manufacturers in Ireland and Southeast Asia. We intend to continue to expand our sales and operations outside of the United States and expand our presence in international emerging markets, such as our expansion into China, India, Brazil, and Eastern Europe. In 2010, we established a Wholly Foreign Owned Enterprise (WFOE) in Shanghai, China and we began to sell to our Chinese customers through this new entity in 2011. This new entity has required and will continue to require significant management attention and financial resources. As a result, our business is subject to the risks inherent in international sales and operations, including, among other things: • various regulatory and statutory requirements, • difficulties in injecting and repatriating cash, • export and import restrictions, • transportation delays, • employment regulations and local labor conditions, • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales operations, • instability in economic or political conditions, • difficulties protecting intellectual property, • business systems connectivity issues, and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the use of derivative instruments to hedge these exposures could adversely affect our reported results, liquidity, and competitive position. We face exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, as a significant portion of our revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of our subsidiaries or the reporting currency of our company, which is the U.S. Dollar. In certain instances, we utilize forward contracts to hedge against foreign currency fluctuations. These contracts are used to minimize foreign currency gains or losses, as the gains or losses on the derivative are intended to offset the losses or gains on the underlying exposure. We do not engage in foreign currency speculation. We primarily enter into these contracts with one counterparty. If the counterparty to any of our hedging arrangements experiences financial difficulties, or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the contract, we may experience material losses. Late in 2013, we expanded our foreign currency hedging program to include foreign currency cash flow hedges that protect our budgeted revenues and expenses against foreign currency exchange rate changes compared to our budgeted rates. These hedges are designated for hedge accounting, and therefore, the effective portion of the forward contract’s gain or loss is reported in shareholders’ equity as other comprehensive income (loss) and will be reclassified into current earnings as the hedged transaction impacts earnings. Should these hedges fail to qualify for hedge accounting or be ineffective, the gain or loss on the forward contract would be reported in current earnings as opposed to when the hedged transaction impacts earnings. This may result in material foreign currency gains or losses. The success of our foreign currency risk management program depends upon forecasts of transaction activity denominated in various currencies. To the extent that these forecasts are overstated or understated during periods of currency volatility, we could experience unanticipated foreign currency gains or losses that could have a material impact on our results of operations. Furthermore, our failure to identify new exposures and hedge them in an effective manner may result in material foreign currency gains or losses. 9 Table of Contents A significant portion of our revenues and expenses are denominated in the Euro and the Japanese Yen. Our predominant currency of sale is the U.S. Dollar in the Americas, the Euro in Europe, the Yen in Japan, and the U.S. Dollar and Chinese Yuan, also known as Renminbi, in Southeast Asia. We estimate that approximately 48% of our sales in 2013 were invoiced in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, and we expect sales denominated in foreign currencies to continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenue. While we also have expenses denominated in these same foreign currencies, the impact on revenues has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, greater than the offsetting impact on expenses. Therefore, in times when the U.S. Dollar strengthens in relation to these foreign currencies, we would expect to report a net decrease in operating income. Conversely, in times when the U.S. Dollar weakens in relation to these foreign currencies, we would expect to report a net increase in operating income. Thus, changes in the relative strength of the U.S. Dollar may have a material impact on our operating results. The loss of a large customer could have an adverse effect on our business. In 2013, our top five customers accounted for approximately 7% of total revenue. As a large portion of our sales are through resellers however, there may be end customers of our resellers that are large consumers of our products. Furthermore, there may be industry leaders that are able to exert purchasing power over their vendors’ supply chains, particularly in the automotive and consumer electronics industries. Our expansion within the factory automation marketplace has reduced our reliance upon the revenue from any one customer. Nevertheless, the loss of, or significant curtailment of purchases by, any one or more of our larger customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of, or fail to attract, key personnel. We are highly dependent upon the management and leadership of Robert J. Shillman, our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Culture Officer, and Robert J. Willett, our President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as other members of our senior management team. Although we have many experienced and qualified senior managers, the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our company. Our continued growth and success also depends upon our ability to attract and retain skilled employees and on the ability of our officers and key employees to effectively manage the growth of our business through the implementation of appropriate management information systems and internal controls. We have historically used stock options as a key component of our employee compensation program in order to align employee interests with the interests of our shareholders, provide competitive compensation and benefits packages, and encourage employee retention. We are limited as to the number of options that we may grant under our stock option plans. Accordingly, we may find it difficult to attract, retain, and motivate employees, and any such difficulties could materially adversely affect our business. The failure of a key supplier to deliver quality product in a timely manner or our inability to obtain components for our products could adversely affect our operating results. A significant portion of our MVSD product is manufactured by two third-party contractors. These contractors have agreed to provide Cognex with termination notification periods and last-time-buy rights, if and when that may be applicable. We rely upon these contractors to provide quality product and meet delivery schedules. We engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring the performance of our third-party manufacturers; however, we may not detect all product quality issues through these programs and processes. Certain key electronic components that are purchased from strategic suppliers, such as processors or imagers, are fundamental to the design of Cognex products. A disruption in the supply of these key components, such as a last-time-buy announcement, natural disaster, financial bankruptcy, or other event, may require us to purchase a significant amount of inventory at unfavorable prices resulting in lower gross margins and higher risk of carrying excess or obsolete inventory. Furthermore, we are in the process of complying with the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer 10 Table of Contents Protection Act, which requires companies to inquire into the origin of conflict minerals in their supply chains. We will work with our supply chain partners to take reasonable steps to assure conflict minerals are not sourced by Cognex or our supply chain partners. These steps may include purchasing supply from alternative sources. If we are unable to secure adequate supply from alternative sources, we may have to redesign our products, which may lead to a delay in manufacturing and a possible loss of sales. Although we are taking certain actions to mitigate supply risk, an interruption in, termination of, or material change in the purchase terms of any key components could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We manage our inventory levels to meet increases in customer demand, while at the same time minimizing inventory obsolescence exposure. Many of our vendors reduced their inventory levels and manufacturing capacity during the economic downturn that began in late 2008. As a result, if customer demand increases beyond the levels we are forecasting, our vendors may have difficulty meeting our accelerated delivery schedules due to their reduced manufacturing capacities. We may therefore be unable to take delivery of an adequate supply of components and turnkey systems from our vendors in order to meet an increase in demand from our customers. These supply issues could impact our ability to ship product to customers, and therefore, to recognize revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our failure to effectively manage product transitions or accurately forecast customer demand could result in excess or obsolete inventory and resulting charges. Because the market for our products is characterized by rapid technological advances, we frequently introduce new products with improved ease-of-use, improved hardware performance, additional software features and functionality, or lower cost that may replace existing products. Among the risks associated with the introduction of new products are difficulty predicting customer demand and effectively managing inventory levels to ensure adequate supply of the new product and avoid excess supply of the legacy product. In addition, we may strategically enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors to purchase materials for our products in advance of demand in order to take advantage of favorable pricing or address concerns about the availability of future supplies or long lead times. Our failure to effectively manage product transitions or accurately forecast customer demand, in terms of both volume and configuration, has led to, and may again in the future lead to, an increased risk of excess or obsolete inventory and resulting charges. Our products may contain design or manufacturing defects, which could result in reduced demand, significant delays, or substantial costs. If flaws in either the design or manufacture of our products were to occur, we could experience a rate of failure in our products that could result in significant delays in shipment and material repair or replacement costs. Our release-to-market process may not be robust enough to detect significant design flaws or software bugs. While we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of our component suppliers and contract manufacturers, these actions may not be sufficient to avoid a product failure rate that results in: • substantial delays in shipment, • significant repair or replacement costs, • product liability claims or lawsuits, or • potential damage to our reputation. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our failure to introduce new products in a successful and timely manner could result in the loss of our market share and a decrease in our revenues and profits. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology. Accordingly, we believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to accelerate time-to-market for new products with improved functionality, ease-of-use, performance, or price. There can be no assurance that we will be 11 Table of Contents able to introduce new products in accordance with scheduled release dates or that new products will achieve market acceptance. Our ability to keep pace with the rapid rate of technological change in the high-technology marketplace could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Product development is often a complex, time-consuming, and costly process involving significant investment in research and development with no assurance of return on investment. Our strong balance sheet allows us to continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for new products and technologies. Research is by its nature speculative and the ultimate commercial success of a product depends upon various factors, many of which are not under our control. We may not achieve significant revenue from new product investments for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, new products may not generate the operating margins that we have experienced historically. Our failure to properly manage the distribution of our products and services could result in the loss of revenues and profits. We utilize a direct sales force, as well as a network of integration and distribution partners, to sell our products and services. Successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect sales channels to reach various potential customers for our products and services is a complex process. In addition, our reliance upon indirect selling methods may reduce visibility to demand and pricing issues. Each sales channel has distinct risks and costs, and therefore, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the sales model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. If we fail to successfully protect our intellectual property, our competitive position and operating results could suffer. We rely on our proprietary software technology and hardware designs, as well as the technical expertise, creativity, and knowledge of our personnel to maintain our position as a leading provider of machine vision products. Software piracy and reverse engineering, specifically from companies in Russia and Asia, may result in counterfeit products that are misrepresented in the market as Cognex products. Although we use a variety of methods to protect our intellectual property, we rely most heavily on patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection, as well as non-disclosure agreements with customers, suppliers, employees, and consultants. We also attempt to protect our intellectual property by restricting access to our proprietary information by a combination of technical and internal security measures. These measures, however, may not be adequate to: • protect our proprietary technology, • protect our patents from challenge, invalidation, or circumvention, or • ensure that our intellectual property will provide us with competitive advantages. Any of these adverse circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our company may be subject to time-consuming and costly litigation. From time to time, we may be subject to various claims and lawsuits by competitors, customers, or other parties arising in the ordinary course of business, including lawsuits charging patent infringement, or claims and lawsuits instituted by us to protect our intellectual property or for other reasons. We are currently a party to actions that are fully described in the section captioned “Legal Proceedings,” appearing in Part I – Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These matters can be time-consuming, divert management’s attention and resources, and cause us to incur significant expenses. Furthermore, the results of any of these actions may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Increased competition may result in decreased demand or prices for our products and services. The machine vision market is fragmented and Cognex’s competitors are typically other vendors of machine vision systems, controllers, and components; manufacturers of image processing systems, 12 Table of Contents sensors, and components; and system integrators. Any of these competitors may have greater financial and other resources than we do. Ease-of-use and product price are significant competitive factors in the factory automation marketplace. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future and our investments in research and development, sales and marketing, and support activities may be insufficient to enable us to maintain our competitive advantage. In addition, competitive pressures could lead to price erosion that could have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and operating results. We refer you to the section captioned “Competition,” appearing in Part I – Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding the competition that we face. Implementation of our acquisition strategy may not be successful, which could affect our ability to increase our revenue or profitability and result in the impairment of acquired intangible assets. We have in the past acquired, and will in the future consider the acquisition of, businesses and technologies in the machine vision industry. Our business may be negatively impacted by risks related to those acquisitions. These risks include, among others: • the inability to find or close attractive acquisition opportunities, • the diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters, • the inability to realize expected synergies resulting from the acquisition, • the failure to retain key customers or employees, and • the impairment of acquired intangible assets resulting from lower-than-expected cash flows from the acquired assets. Acquisitions are inherently risky and the inability to effectively manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We are at risk for impairment charges with respect to our investments or for acquired intangible assets or goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. As of December 31, 2013, we had $414 million of investments, of which $412 million consisted of debt securities. These debt securities are all denominated in U.S. Dollars and the majority of these securities are debt of U.S. companies. These debt securities are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, recorded in shareholders’ equity as other comprehensive income (loss) since these securities are designated as available-for-sale securities. As of December 31, 2013, our portfolio of debt securities had a net unrealized gain of $32,000. Included in this net gain, however, were gross unrealized losses totaling $918,000, of which $447,000 were in a loss position for less than twelve months and $471,000 were in a loss position for greater than twelve months. As of December 31, 2013, these unrealized losses were determined to be temporary. However, if conditions change and future unrealized losses were determined to be other-than-temporary, we would be required to record an impairment charge. Management monitors the carrying value of its investments in debt securities compared to their fair value to determine whether an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred. In considering whether a decline in fair value is other-than-temporary, we consider many factors, both qualitative and quantitative. Management considers the type of security, the credit rating of the security, the length of time the security has been in a loss position, the size of the loss position, our ability and intent to hold the security to expected recovery of value, and other meaningful information. If a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge would be recorded in current operations to reduce the carrying value of the investment to its fair value. Should the fair value of investments decline in future periods below their carrying value, management will need to determine whether this decline is other-than-temporary and future impairment charges may be required. As of December 31, 2013, we had $15 million in acquired intangible assets, of which $10 million represented acquired distribution networks. These assets are susceptible to changes in fair value due to a decrease in the historical or projected cash flows from the use of the asset, which may be negatively 13 Table of Contents impacted by economic trends. A decline in the cash flows generated by these assets, such as the revenue we are able to generate through our distribution network, may result in future impairment charges. As of December 31, 2013, we had $82 million in acquired goodwill, $78 million of which is assigned to our Modular Vision Systems Division and $4 million of which is assigned to our Surface Inspection Systems Division. The fair value of goodwill is susceptible to changes in the fair value of the reporting segments in which the goodwill resides, and therefore, a decline in our market capitalization or cash flows relative to the net book value of our segments may result in future impairment charges. If we determine that any of these investments, acquired intangible assets, or goodwill is impaired, we would be required to take a related charge to earnings that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may have additional tax liabilities, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes in the United States, as well as numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax positions are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in our financial statements and could have a material adverse effect on our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period in which the determination is made. Information security breaches or business system disruptions may adversely affect our business. We rely on our information technology infrastructure and management information systems to effectively run our business. We may be subject to information security breaches caused by illegal hacking, computer viruses, or acts of vandalism or terrorism. Our security measures or those of our third-party service providers may not detect or prevent such breaches. Any such compromise to our information security could result in an interruption in our operations, the unauthorized publication of our confidential business or proprietary information, the unauthorized release of customer, vendor, or employee data, the violation of privacy or other laws, and the exposure to litigation, any of which could harm our business and operating results. Any disruption occurring with our management information systems may cause significant business disruption, including our ability to provide quotes, process orders, ship products, invoice customers, process payments, and otherwise run our business. Any disruption occurring with these systems may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved SEC staff comments as of the date of this report. 