Item 1A. Risk Factors Our businesses are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties which are described below. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not described or not known to management of the Company may also impair business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We could have unfavorable health insurance and workers’ compensation claim experiences. The Business Solutions segment calculates reserves for workers’ compensation and health insurance claims by estimating unpaid losses and loss expenses with respect to claims occurring on or before the balance sheet date, and in certain instances, we carry high deductibles on these policies. Such estimates include provisions for reported claims and provisions for incurred-but-not-reported claims. The estimates of unpaid losses are established and continually reviewed by the Company using a variety of statistical and analytical techniques. Reserve estimates reflect past claims experience, currently known factors and trends and estimates of future claim trends. We cannot be certain that future claims will be consistent with past experience. We could face additional liability for worksite employee payroll and benefits costs. Under customer service agreements in our Business Solutions segment, we become a co-employer of worksite employees and assume the obligations to pay the salaries, wages and related benefits costs and payroll taxes of such worksite employees. Our obligations include responsibility for: § payment of the salaries and wages for work performed by worksite employees, regardless of whether the client timely pays us the associated service fee; and § providing benefits to worksite employees even if our costs to provide such benefits exceed the fees the client pays us. 7 If a client does not pay us, or if the costs of benefits we provide to worksite employees exceed the fees a client pays us, our ultimate liability for worksite employee payroll and benefits costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We may face operational challenges as a result of changes in federal, state and local regulations. As a major employer, our operations in the Business Solutions segment are affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to labor, tax and employment matters. By entering into a co-employer relationship with employees of our clients, we assume certain obligations and responsibilities of an employer under these laws. However, many of these laws (such as ERISA and federal and state employment tax laws) do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of non-traditional employers such as PEOs, and the definition of “employer” under these laws is not uniform. In addition, some of the states in which we operate have not addressed the PEO relationship for purposes of compliance with applicable state laws governing the employer/employee relationship. Any adverse application of these other federal or state laws to the PEO relationship with our worksite employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. However, due to the strong legislative efforts of the National Association of Professional Employer Organizations (NAPEO), much of this risk is being mitigated, as NAPEO has put in place in many states, via legislation, regulations that satisfy most state legislatures. These self-imposed industry regulations also help to clarify or define the PEO co-employment relationship in various areas of state employment law and have greatly reduced the risk of legislative change negatively affecting PEOs at the state level. While many states do not explicitly regulate PEOs, various states have passed or may be considering passing laws that have licensing or registration requirements for PEOs. Such laws vary from state to state, but generally provide for monitoring the fiscal responsibility of PEOs, and in some cases codify and clarify the co-employment relationship for unemployment, workers’ compensation and other purposes under state law. While we generally support licensing regulation because it serves to validate the PEO relationship, we typically satisfy licensing requirements or other applicable regulations for the states we currently operate in. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain licenses in all states. We may face additional liabilities as a result of increases in unemployment tax rates. We record our state unemployment tax expense based on taxable wages and tax rates assigned by each state. State unemployment tax rates vary by state and are determined, in part, based on prior years’ compensation experience in each state. Should our claim experience increase, our unemployment tax rates could increase. In addition, states have the ability under law to increase unemployment tax rates to cover deficiencies in the unemployment tax fund. Some states have implemented retroactive cost increases. Some client contractual arrangements limit our ability to incorporate such increases into service fees, which could result in a delay before such increases could be reflected in service fees. The PEO contracts for the PEM office in Arizona limits their ability to pass on SUTA rate increases. For clients acquired after January 1, 2008, the Arizona office contracts allow the PEO to raise SUTA rates on an as needed basis. PEO Contracts for clients in the states of Utah and Colorado do not limit the PEOs ability to raise SUTA rates on an as needed basis. PEO contracts in the States of Indiana and Tennessee are also non restrictive regarding the PEO’s ability to raise SUTA rates on an as needed basis. As a result, most increases to a PEOs SUTA rate can be passed on to their clients and will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairments. When we acquire a business, we record goodwill equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” which provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives should continue to be amortized over their useful lives. SFAS 142 also provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. SFAS 142 requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. Absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually as of the end of the fourth quarter. Future impairments, if any, will be recognized as operating expenses. 8 We may not be able to successfully achieve the expected benefits of acquisitions, which expose us to risks associated with these transactions. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions or investments in or engage in strategic partnering relationships with other companies or technologies. We may not be able to successfully achieve expected benefits. Additionally, we may be exposed to factors including but not limited to unanticipated contingent liabilities, additional expenses, loss of key employees or customers, or other contingencies consistent with acquisition risks, which ultimately could result in significantly decreased earnings and material and adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The departure of key personnel could disrupt our business, and few of our key personnel have employment contracts requiring a service commitment. We depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and on the senior management of the businesses we acquire. Although we intend to enter into an employment agreement with each of our executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not carry key-person life insurance on some key employees, including our majority shareholder that guarantees certain debt obligations. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We have reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that, if we do not substantially remedy, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. As described in Item 9A of this Report, certain control deficiencies constitute a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2009. In particular, we have concluded that (i) additional accounting personnel were needed at certain subsidiaries at June 30, 2009 to ensure that certain disclosure controls and procedures were operating effectively; (ii) greater segregation of duties was needed in the accounting functions; and (iii) certain procedures should be documented to ensure that personnel turnover does not result in a failure of those procedures. Certain businesses we have acquired may have had limited infrastructure and systems of internal controls. Performing assessments of internal controls, implementing necessary changes, and maintaining an effective internal controls process is costly and requires considerable management attention, particularly in the case of newly acquired entities. Internal control systems are designed in part upon assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and all such systems, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. We also cannot assure that we will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls will not be discovered in the future. Any failure to remediate any future material weaknesses or implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements or other public disclosures. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and require significant management time and attention. As a public company we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules of the NYSE Amex. The requirements of these rules and regulations have increased, and may further increase in the future, our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time consuming or costly and may also place undue strain on our systems and resources. The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we report on the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, and internal controls over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, and internal controls over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. In addition, beginning with our 2011 fiscal year, we will be required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified independent members of our Board of Directors and qualified members of our management team. 9 The financial markets have recently experienced significant turmoil which may negatively impact our liquidity, our ability to obtain financing and our ability to process transactions through the banking system. Our liquidity and our ability to obtain financing may be negatively impacted if one of our Lenders under our credit facility, or another financial institution, suffers liquidity issues or ceases operations. In such an event, we may not be able to draw on all, or a substantial portion of, our credit facility or timely process payroll and collection transactions through the banking system. Also, if we attempt to obtain future financing, in addition to our current credit facility, we may be unable to obtain such financing which could materially adversely affect our operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our short-term results may be negatively impacted due to changes in health insurance claims, state unemployment tax rates and workers’ compensation rates, which we may not be able to immediately pass through to our clients. Health insurance costs, workers’ compensation and employment practices liability insurance rates and state unemployment taxes are primarily determined by our claims experience and comprise a significant portion of our actual costs. Should we experience a significant increase in claims activity, due to the current economic downturn or otherwise, we may experience a substantial increase in our health insurance premiums, unemployment taxes, or workers’ compensation and employment practices liability insurance rates. Our ability to pass such increases through to our clients on a timely basis may be delayed and our clients may not agree to the increases, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our insurance-related loss reserves may be inadequate to cover our ultimate liability for losses and as a result our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. We maintain loss reserves to cover our liabilities for the costs of our health care and workers’ compensation programs. These reserves are not an exact calculation of our liability, but rather are estimates based on a number of factors including but not limited to actuarial calculations, current and historical loss trends and payment patterns, the number of open claims, developments relating to the actual claims incurred, medical trend rates and the impact of acquisitions, if any. Variables in the reserve estimation may be affected by both internal and external factors, such as changes in claims handling procedures, fluctuations in the administrative costs associated with the program, economic conditions, fiscal policies, interest rates, legal determinations and legislative and regulatory changes. Although our reserves estimates are regularly refined as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled, because of the uncertainties of estimating loss reserves, we cannot assure you that our reserves are adequate, and actual costs and expenses may exceed our reserves. If our reserves are insufficient to cover actual losses we may incur potentially material charges to our earnings. Our ability to manage health care costs affects our profitability. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to appropriately predict and manage future health care costs through underwriting criteria and negotiation of favorable contracts with health care plan providers. The aging of the population and other demographic characteristics, the introduction of new or costly treatments resulting from advances in medical technology and other factors continue to contribute to rising health care costs. Government-imposed limitations on Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements have also caused the private sector to assume a greater share of increasing health care costs. Changes in health care practices, inflation, new technologies, increases in the cost of prescription drugs, direct-to-consumer marketing by pharmaceutical companies, clusters of high cost cases, utilization levels, changes in the regulatory environment, health care provider or member fraud, and numerous other factors affecting the cost of health care can be beyond any health plan provider’s control and may adversely affect our ability to predict and manage health care costs, as well as our business, financial condition and operating results. We use actuarial data to assist us in analyzing and projecting these amounts, however, we and our carriers may not be successful in managing the cost of our plans. Accordingly, our costs under our health benefit plans may exceed our estimates, requiring us to fund the difference. Any significant funding obligation may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We operate in a complex regulatory environment and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. The HR outsourcing and PEO environment is subject to a number of federal and state laws and regulations, including those applicable to payroll practices, taxes, benefits administration, insurance, wage and hour, employment practices and data privacy. As many of these laws do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of a professional employer organization, assuring compliance with such laws and assessing the financial impact of such compliance can be difficult. For example, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, enacted on February 17, 2009, includes significant modifications of the COBRA continuation coverage rules including an additional period of sixty days for eligible employees to elect to continue their benefit coverage and a subsidy of 65% of the applicable COBRA premium for up to nine months for employees “involuntarily terminated” by their employer between September 1, 2008 and December 31, 2009. At this time it is unclear how these modifications will be applied where a “co-employer” sponsors the benefit plans and has been contractually allocated responsibility for compliance with the COBRA continuation rules. The Company anticipates that it will incur additional costs associated with compliance with these new rules but the amount of such costs and the impact of these new rules on the Company’s business are currently unclear. 10 Because our clients have employees in states throughout the United States, we must also perform our services in compliance with the legal and regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions. Some of these laws and regulations may be difficult to ascertain or interpret, may conflict and may change over time, and the addition of new services may subject us to additional laws and regulations. Many of these laws and regulations were instituted prior to the development of the professional employer organization industry, and therefore can be difficult to interpret or assess and may change over time. As a result of uncertainty and inconsistency in the interpretation and application of many of these laws and regulations, from time to time we have had disagreements with regulatory agencies in various states, some of which have resulted in administrative proceedings between a state agency and us. If we are unable to continue to provide certain contractual obligations, such as the payment of employment taxes on the salaries and wages paid to client employees, due to an adverse determination regarding our regulatory status as an “employer”, our clients may be held jointly and severally liable for such payments. Violation of these laws and regulations could subject us to fines and penalties, damage our reputation, constitute breach of our client contracts and impair our ability to do business in various jurisdictions or in accordance with established processes. In addition, many states in which we operate have enacted laws that require licensing or registration of professional employer organizations, including Florida and Texas, and additional states are considering such legislation. We may not be able to satisfy the licensing requirements or other applicable regulations of any particular state, or we may be unable to renew our licenses in the states in which we currently operate upon expiration of such licenses, which could prevent us from providing services to client employees in a certain state. In addition, many of these states have reciprocal disciplinary arrangements under which disciplinary action in one state can be the basis for disciplinary action in one or more other states. Future changes in or additions to these requirements may require us to modify the manner in which we provide services to our clients, which may increase our costs in providing such services. We are also increasingly affected by legal requirements relating to privacy of information. We anticipate that additional federal and state privacy laws and regulations beyond the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and the regulations promulgated there under will continue to be enacted and implemented. The scope of any such new laws and regulations may be very broad and entail significant costs for us to be in compliance. As a result of our co-employment relationship with most of our clients and client employees, we may be subject to liabilities as a result of their acts or omissions. We enter into a contractual relationship with each of our clients, whereby the client transfers certain employment-related risks and liabilities to us and retains other risks and liabilities. Many federal and state laws that apply to the employer-employee relationship do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of this “co-employment” relationship. Consequently, we may be subject to liability for violations of employment or discrimination laws, including violations of federal and state wage and hour laws, by our clients despite the contractual division of responsibilities between us, even if we do not participate in such violations. In addition, our client employees may also be deemed to be acting as our agents, subjecting us to further liability for the acts or omissions of such client employees. Although our professional services agreement provides that the client will indemnify us for any liability attributable to its own or its employees’ conduct, we may not be able to effectively enforce or collect such contractual indemnification. Any such liability imposed upon us could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Because we assume the obligation to make wage, tax and regulatory payments on behalf of our clients, we are exposed to certain credit risks with respect to our clients. Under the terms of our professional services agreement, for clients serviced on a co-employed basis we generally assume responsibility for and manage the risks associated with each of our client’s employee payroll obligations, including the payment of salaries, wages and associated taxes, and, at the client’s option, the responsibility for providing group health, welfare and retirement benefits to each client employee. In this “co-employment” relationship, we directly assume these obligations, and unlike payroll processing service providers, we issue payroll checks to each client employee drawn on our own bank accounts. In several states, we are required to pay wages, payroll taxes and other amounts related to payroll regardless of whether the client timely funds such payments to us. For clients serviced either on a co-employed or non co-employed basis, who meet certain financial underwriting requirements, the Company may issue payroll to a client’s employees prior to irrevocable receipt of payroll, taxes and associated service fees. If we are unable to collect these payments from our larger clients, there may be a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. A control group owns a substantial majority of our common stock. As of June 30, 2009, the Control Group held 72.4% or 8,746,448 shares of our outstanding common stock. Members of the Control Group as of this date include John F. Fisbeck and Carter M. Fortune. Individually, each of the above persons has the sole voting and dispositive power over the following number of shares of the Company’s Common Stock as of June 30, 2009: John F. Fisbeck, 1,810,525 (or 15.0%) and Carter M. Fortune, 4,237,852 (or 35.1%). In addition to the above shares, Messrs. Fisbeck and Fortune equally share dispositive control over 2,698,071 (or 22.3%) shares of the Company’s Common Stock held by 14 West, LLC as of June 30, 2009. 11 As a result, these persons could have a controlling influence in determining the outcome of any corporate matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, election of directors and any other significant corporate actions. The interests of these shareholders may differ from the interests of the Company’s other shareholders and their stock ownership may thereby limit the ability of other shareholders to influence the management and affairs of the Company. We may face additional liabilities and exposures based on agreements the Company’s majority shareholders have entered into during the acquisition of various subsidiaries in the prior years. Our Company's two largest shareholders have entered into put or call options in conjunction with past Company acquisitions with their shareholders. Since these arrangements are not associated with the Company, our shareholders may honor, change or enter into other arrangements with these prior owners. We believe any risk related to these arrangements is outside the Company. Since the Company remains dependent on the financial strength of our largest shareholder, any damaging effects from these arrangements may also have a corresponding negative impact to the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 