Item 1A. Risk Factors Our businesses are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties which are described below. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not described or not known to management of the Company may also impair business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The businesses in which we provide services are highly competitive. The industries we operate in are highly competitive and are served by numerous small, owner-operated private companies, regional companies, national and international public companies. In addition, relatively few barriers prevent entry into these industries. As a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. Customers within certain of our industries usually employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services we provide. We cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future. Competition in the various industries in which we focus depends on a number of factors, including price. Certain of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures and may, therefore, be able to provide their services at lower rates than we are able to provide. In addition, some of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we do. Our management cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. Similarly, our management cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within our industries. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. During the winter months and at other times of year, demand for our services (including, but not limited to the services provided by the Wireless Infrastructure and Transportation Infrastructure segments) may be lower due to inclement weather. In addition, inclement weather could cause delays in the issuance or completion of projects. Further, our quarterly results may also be materially affected by: § the timing and volume of work under new agreements; § the termination of existing agreements; § regional or general economic conditions; § a change in the mix of our customers, contracts and business; § the budgetary spending patterns of customers; § variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter; § increases in construction and design costs; § the availability of products to sell; § changes to the cost of available products; § changes in bonding requirements applicable to new agreements; § losses experienced in our operations not otherwise covered by insurance; § payment risk associated with the financial condition of our customers; § costs we incur to support growth internally or through acquisitions or otherwise; § the timing of acquisitions; and § the magnitude of acquisition assimilation costs. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other quarter or for the entire year. We may not be able to successfully achieve the expected benefits of acquisitions, which exposes us to risks associated with these transactions. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions or investments in or engage in strategic partnering relationships with other companies or technologies. We may not be able to successfully achieve expected benefits. Additionally, we may be exposed to factors including but not limited to unanticipated contingent liabilities, additional expenses, loss of key employees or customers, or other contingencies consistent with acquisition risks, which ultimately could result in significantly decreased earnings and material and adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We may be unsuccessful at integrating companies. We may not successfully integrate the companies that we have acquired or that we may acquire with our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. Failure to implement proper overall business controls could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices at the companies that we acquire, and our overall profitability could be adversely affected. Integrating our acquired companies involves a number of special risks which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including: § failure of acquired companies to achieve the results that we expect; § diversion of management’s attention from operational matters; § difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; § inability to retain key personnel of the acquired companies; § risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; § the potential disruption of business; and § the difficulty of maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. Further, if one of the acquired companies suffers customer dissatisfaction or performance problems, our reputation could be materially and adversely affected. We may not succeed in generating internal growth. Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: § expand the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving needs; § attract new customers; § increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; § hire and retain employees; § open additional facilities; and § reduce our operating and overhead expenses. In addition, our customers may reduce the number or size of projects available to us due to their inability to obtain capital. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be successful or that we will be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. Our inability to achieve internal growth could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customers are often larger companies that have superior bargaining strength. Some of our customers or prospective customers (including, but not limited to, customers or prospective customers of the Wireless Infrastructure segment) are large companies that have a greater bargaining position than we do in negotiating contracts due to the potential value to us of obtaining their business and the intense competition we face to obtain that business. This unequal bargaining position could result in our acceptance of less favorable contract terms than we might otherwise accept, reduced operating margins and material and adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The concentration of a portion of our business among large customers could increase credit risks. The concentration of a portion of our business among a number of large customers (including, but not limited to customers in the Wireless Infrastructure segment) increases our potential credit risks. One or more of these customers could delay payments or default on credit extended to them. Any significant delay in the collection of significant accounts receivable could result in an increased need for us to obtain working capital from other sources, possibly on worse terms than we could have negotiated if we have established such working capital resources prior to such delays or defaults. Any significant default could result in significantly decreased earnings and material and adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Many of our contracts may be canceled on short notice and we may be unsuccessful in replacing the contracts as they are completed or expire. We could experience a material adverse effect on our revenue, net income and liquidity if any of the following occur: § our customers cancel a significant number of contracts; § we fail to win a significant number of our existing contracts upon re-bid; or § we complete the required work under a significant number of non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects. We may not be able to maintain appropriate staffing levels related to our billable workforce. If we maintain or increase billable staffing levels in anticipation of one or more projects and those projects are delayed, reduced or terminated, or otherwise do not materialize, we may underutilize these personnel, which could have material and adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We bear the risk of cost overruns on a large percentage of our revenues that are derived from fixed price contracts. The concentration of a portion of our business among a number of fixed price contracts (including, but not limited to contracts in the Wireless Infrastructure and Transportation Infrastructure segments) increases our potential risk of loss. Under fixed price contracts, we provide specific tasks for a specific price and are typically paid on a milestone basis. Such contracts involve greater financial risks because we bear the risk if actual project costs exceed the amounts we are paid under the contracts. Increases in estimated project costs under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could cause fluctuations in our quarterly results and adversely affect our operating results. Certain portions of our business (including, but not limited to construction services within the Wireless Infrastructure and Transportation Infrastructure segments) recognize revenues using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. This accounting method results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract cost. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability which requires considerable judgment. If in any period we significantly increase our estimate of the total costs to complete a given project, we may recognize very little or no additional revenues with respect to that project. If the total contract cost estimates indicate that there is a loss, such loss is recognized in the period such determination is made. To the extent that our cost estimates fluctuate over time or differ from actual costs, our operating results may be materially affected. As a result, our gross profit in future periods may be significantly reduced or eliminated. A portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds. We may be unable to compete for our work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain the necessary surety bonds. We have posted letters of credit to support our surety bond program in our Wireless Infrastructure and Transportation Infrastructure segments. Further, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds. Current or future market conditions, as well as changes in our surety’s assessment of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety provider to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. These actions could be taken on short notice. If our surety provider were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more business that does not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. We may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. Accordingly, if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects. 11 Table of Contents Our unionized workforce could adversely affect our operations. As of August 31, 2006, approximately 71% of our employees within our Transportation Infrastructure segment were covered by multi-employer bargaining agreements. Although the majority of these agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. Strikes or work stoppages would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could cause us to lose business and decrease our revenue. We may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial impact relating to occupational health and safety matters. The services provided by us create a risk of serious injury or death for the employees performing the work and for other persons (including but not limited to cellular tower construction in the Wireless Infrastructure segment and highway construction work in the Transportation Infrastructure segment). These risks can increase the Company’s exposure to liability and may result in increased insurance costs. In addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time, our customers could cancel our contracts and not award us future business. Our success is dependent on growth in the deployment of wireless networks and new technology upgrades, and to the extent that such growth slows, our business may be harmed. Telecommunications carriers, who are serviced by our Wireless Infrastructure segment, are constantly re-evaluating their network deployment plans in response to trends in the capital markets, changing perceptions regarding industry growth, the adoption of new wireless technologies, increasing pricing competition for subscribers and general economic conditions in the United States. If the rate of network deployment slows and carriers reduce their capital investments in wireless infrastructure or fail to expand into new geographic areas, our business may be significantly harmed. The uncertainty associated with rapidly changing telecommunications technologies may also negatively impact the rate of deployment of wireless networks and the demand for our services. Telecommunications service providers face significant challenges in assessing consumer demand and in acceptance of rapidly changing enhanced telecommunications capabilities. If telecommunications service providers perceive that the rate of acceptance of next generation telecommunications products will grow more slowly than previously expected, they may, as a result, slow their development of next generation technologies. Moreover, increasing price competition for subscribers could adversely affect the profitability of carriers and limit their resources for network deployment. Any significant sustained slowdown will further reduce the demand for our services and adversely affect our financial results. If wireless carriers, network equipment vendors and enterprises do not outsource their wireless telecommunications services, our business will suffer. Our success depends upon the continued trend by wireless carriers and network equipment vendors to outsource their network design, deployment and management needs. If this trend does not continue and wireless carriers and network equipment vendors elect to perform more network deployment services themselves, our operating results and revenues may decline. The telecommunications industry has experienced significant consolidation, and this trend is expected to continue. It is possible that we and one or more of our competitors each supply products to the companies that have merged or will merge. This consolidation could result in delays in purchasing decisions by merged companies or in us playing a decreased role in the supply of products to the merged companies. Delays or reductions in wireless infrastructure spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and, consequently, our results of operations. We could have unfavorable health insurance and workers compensation claim experiences. 12 Table of Contents The Business Solutions segment calculates reserves for workers compensation and health insurance claims by estimating unpaid losses and loss expenses with respect to claims occurring on or before the balance sheet date, and under certain instances we carry high deductibles on these policies. Such estimates include provisions for reported claims and provisions for incurred-but-not-reported claims. The estimates of unpaid losses are established and continually reviewed by the Company using a variety of statistical and analytical techniques. Reserve estimates reflect past claims experience, currently known factors and trends and estimates of future claim trends. We cannot be certain that future claims will be consistent with past experience. We could face additional liability for worksite employee payroll and benefits costs. Under customer service agreements, we become a co-employer of worksite employees and assume the obligations to pay the salaries, wages and related benefits costs and payroll taxes of such worksite employees. Our obligations include responsibility for: § payment of the salaries and wages for work performed by worksite employees, regardless of whether the client timely pays us the associated service fee; and § providing benefits to worksite employees even if our costs to provide such benefits exceed the fees the client pays us. If a client does not pay us, or if the costs of benefits we provide to worksite employees exceed the fees a client pays us, our ultimate liability for worksite employee payroll and benefits costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We may face operational challenges as a result of changes in federal, state and local regulations. As a major employer, our operations are affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to labor, tax and employment matters. By entering into a co-employer relationship with employees assigned to work at client locations, we assume certain obligations and responsibilities of an employer under these laws. However, many of these laws (such as ERISA and federal and state employment tax laws) do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of non-traditional employers such as PEOs, and the definition of “employer” under these laws is not uniform. In addition, many of the states in which we operate have not addressed the PEO relationship for purposes of compliance with applicable state laws governing the employer/employee relationship. Any adverse application of these other federal or state laws to the PEO relationship with our worksite employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. While many states do not explicitly regulate PEOs, various states have passed or may be considering passing laws that have licensing or registration requirements for PEOs. Such laws vary from state to state, but generally provide for monitoring the fiscal responsibility of PEOs, and in some cases codify and clarify the co-employment relationship for unemployment, workers’ compensation and other purposes under state law. While we generally support licensing regulation because it serves to validate the PEO relationship, we may not be able to satisfy licensing requirements or other applicable regulations for all states. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our licenses in all states. We may face additional liabilities as a result of increases in unemployment tax rates. We record our state unemployment tax expense based on taxable wages and tax rates assigned by each state. State unemployment tax rates vary by state and are determined, in part, based on prior years’ compensation experience in each state. Should our claim experience increase, our unemployment tax rates could increase. In addition, states have the ability under law to increase unemployment tax rates to cover deficiencies in the unemployment tax fund. Some states have implemented retroactive cost increases. Contractual arrangements with our clients limit our ability to incorporate such increases into service fees, which could result in a delay before such increases could be reflected in service fees. As a result, such increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We face potential client liabilities for employment taxes. 13 Table of Contents Under agreements in our Business Solutions segment, we assume sole responsibility and liability for paying federal employment taxes with respect to wages and salaries we pay our worksite employees including: § income tax withholding requirements; § obligations under FICA; and § obligations under FUTA. Employers have the obligation to withhold and remit the employer portion and, where applicable, the employee portion of these taxes. Most states impose similar employment tax obligations on the employer. While agreements we enter into provide that we have sole legal responsibility for making these tax contributions, the IRS or applicable state taxing authority could conclude that such liability cannot be completely transferred to us. Accordingly, in the event that we fail to meet our tax withholding and payment obligations, the client may be held jointly and severally liable for those obligations. An adverse resolution of this issue may discourage clients from entering into PEO relationships in the future. We may not be able to realize our deferred income tax assets. Significant estimates have been made by management with respect to the realizability of the Company’s deferred tax assets. Actual results could differ from these estimates making it reasonably possible that a change in these estimates could occur in the near term. The Company evaluates a variety of factors in determining the amount of the deferred income tax assets to be recognized pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes” including the number of years the Company’s operating loss and tax credits can be carried forward, the existence of taxable temporary differences, the Company’s earnings history and the Company’s near-term earnings expectations. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. We have, through invention, license agreements or other means, gained various rights in intellectual property that create value for us. In order to avoid public disclosure of details relating to our inventions and intellectual property (especially with respect to our ultraviolet ink formulas within our Ultraviolet Technologies segment), we have in many cases chosen to avoid the patent filing process. Accordingly, it may be difficult to protect these various intellectual property rights from infringement or other degradation and the underlying intellectual property could thereby decrease in value to us. Much of our intellectual property (including, but not limited to ultraviolet ink formulas within our Ultraviolet Technologies segment) is treated as a trade secret; as such, it may not have the same protection as if it had been patented. We are exposed to financial market risks, including interest rate fluctuation and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We are exposed to changes in interest rates on variable interest rate revolving lines of credit. We believe an increase in short-term borrowing rates during interest rate increases could have a material impact on interest expense. Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairments. When we acquire a business, we record goodwill equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” which provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives should continue to be amortized over their useful lives. SFAS 142 also provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. SFAS 142 requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. Absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually as of the end of the fourth quarter. Future impairments, if any, will be recognized as operating expenses. 14 Table of Contents Our debt financing is guaranteed by our two majority shareholders (our Chairman of the Board of Directors and our CEO). A refusal to make additional guarantees by our Chairman of the Board of Directors could impact our borrowing capabilities. If our Chairman of the Board of Directors would not guarantee our debt, we may not be able to retain current borrowing capabilities, growth opportunities, or interest rates. We may not have sufficient funds to repay our obligations to creditors when they become due and our default could have a significant negative impact on our business. If we are not able to repay the principal and interest on our convertible term note with Laurus Master Fund, Ltd. (“Laurus”) in shares of our common stock, we may not have sufficient funds to repay Laurus when our debt obligations to Laurus become due. Our bank credit agreement contains provisions that allow our creditors to accelerate the payment of our debt under those agreements in the event that we are found to be in default of the credit agreement terms. In the event that we are obligated to immediately pay such debt in full under one or more credit agreements we may not be able to meet this demand. Accordingly, we may be required to obtain the funds necessary to repay these obligations either through refinancing, the issuance of additional equity or debt securities or the sale of assets. We may be unable to obtain the funds needed, if any, to repay the obligations from any one or more of these sources on favorable economic terms or at all. The Company’s shareholders may experience dilution if future equity offerings are used to fund operations or acquire additional businesses. If our future operations or acquisitions are financed through the issuance of equity securities, our shareholders could experience significant dilution. In addition, securities issued in connection with future activities could potentially have rights and preferences senior to the current rights and preferences of the Company’s common stock. Our business growth could outpace the capability of our corporate management infrastructure. We cannot be certain that our systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our operations as they expand. Future growth also will impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. We cannot be certain that we can recruit and retain such additional managers and executives. To the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. These risks may be even more likely to affect our Wireless Infrastructure segment due to the extremely rapid pace of growth in that industry and the demands such growth places on our management infrastructure. The departure of key personnel could disrupt our business, and few of our key personnel are obligated to stay with us. We depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and on the senior management of the businesses we acquire. Although we intend to enter into an employment agreement with each of our executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not carry key-person life insurance on some key employees, including our majority shareholder that guarantees certain debt obligations. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We have reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial 15 Table of Contents reporting that, if we do not substantially remedy, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. As described in Item 9A of this Report, certain control deficiencies constitute a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of August 31, 2006. In particular, we have concluded that (i) additional accounting personnel were needed both at the parent company level and at certain subsidiaries at August 31, 2006 to ensure that certain disclosure controls and procedures were operating effectively; (ii) greater segregation of duties was needed in the accounting functions; and (iii) certain procedures should be documented to ensure that personnel turnover does not result in a failure of those procedures. Certain businesses we have acquired may have had limited infrastructure and systems of internal controls. Performing assessments of internal controls, implementing necessary changes, and maintaining an effective internal controls process is costly and requires considerable management attention, particularly in the case of newly acquired entities. Internal control systems are designed in part upon assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and all such systems, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. We also cannot assure that we will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls will not be discovered in the future. Any failure to remediate any future material weaknesses or implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements or other public disclosures. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. A control group owns a substantial majority of our common stock. At August 31, 2006, a Control Group held 80.3% or 8,456,134 shares of our outstanding common stock. Members of the control group include our CEO, Mr. John Fisbeck, and our Chairman of the Board, Mr. Carter Fortune. Additionally, Mr. Harlan Schafir, Mr. Norman Wolcott, Jr. and the Wolcott Trusts are deemed members of the control group. Individually, each of the above persons has the sole voting and dispositive power over the following number of shares of the Company’s Common Stock as of August 31, 2006: John F. Fisbeck, 1,637,701 (or 15.6%), Carter M. Fortune, 4,132,810 (or 39.3%), Harlan M. Schafir, 1,310,000 (or 12.4%), Norman G. Wolcott, Jr., individually, 713,751 (or 6.8%), Norman G. Wolcott Jr., as Trustee of the Wolcott Trusts, 285,372 (or 2.7%). In addition to the above shares, Messrs. Fisbeck and Fortune share dispositive control over 376,500 (or 3.6%) shares of the Company’s Common Stock held by Fisbeck — Fortune Development, LLC. As a result, these persons could have a controlling influence in determining the outcome of any corporate matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, election of directors and any other significant corporate actions. The interests of these shareholders may differ from the interests of the Company’s other shareholders and their stock ownership may thereby limit the ability of other shareholders to influence the management and affairs of the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 Table of Contents 